DRN-4523808
The complaint
Mrs T complains that the car she acquired through Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. She wants to return the car and be reimbursed for the payments shes 
made so far.
What happened
Mrs T entered into a hire purchase agreement in October 2022 to acquire a used car. She 
paid a deposit of £999, and the balance of £4,000 was to be paid through the credit 
agreement which was set up over a 48-month term. At the time of acquisition, the car had 
already been driven nearly 60,000 miles and was just under 10 years old.
Mrs T told us:
the car came with a two-month warranty, which she had to use because there were 
issues with the brakes and the rear wiper stopped working altogether. She says the 
garage fixed both problems, the latter by replacing the faulty wiring;
in January 2023, after the warranty had expired, she noticed that all four tyres were 
badly cracked and would need replacing, but she couldnt afford to do this 
immediately and waited until the following month to replace them at a cost of £300;
at the start of April, the issue with the rear wiper re-occurred  it would stop and start 
randomly; and the Bluetooth module stopped working altogether, which led to other 
problems - the odometer kept flashing, it drained the battery and caused a fault with it 
such that it wouldnt hold its charge;
she purchased a new battery - £115  but this did not resolve the matter; the 
odometer continued to flash, and the Bluetooth module remained inoperable  so she 
had to have it disconnected altogether to prevent it continuing to drain the battery -  
her local garage explained that the Bluetooth unit was faulty  it wasnt able to 
communicate in the way it was meant to and this resulted in it draining the battery if 
left connected;
the garage said a new unit could be fitted but the cost would be more than £500;
she contacted BMF in early April 2023 to tell it she wanted to reject the car, her 
complaint was not handled competently, diligently or impartially; evidenced by the 
number of times she had to complain about BMFs awful processes
Mrs T says the car sold to her was not of satisfactory quality and wasnt fit for purpose at the 
time of sale. She wants the hire purchase agreement to be terminated and wants a refund of 
the money shes spent on repairs.
BMF rejected this complaint. It said the faultswould be considered general wear and tear 
of a vehicle of this age and mileage. Repairs of this nature would be part of the general 
upkeep of the vehicle and part of the overall maintenance of the vehicle.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said that he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said there were clearly things that were wrong with the car, but he hadnt seen enough 
information to suggest that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, he 
thought the types of fault Mrs T had experienced were most likely to be the result of age-
related wear and tear.
Mrs T disagreed, so the complaint comes to me to decide. She also says she has the 
receipts to prove she had to buy new tyres  the old ones had been polished and coloured to 
the extent that the cracking wasnt visible at all, not even to an MOT inspector. And she 
advised that the car had just failed its most recent MOT, but she hadnt raised those issues 
directly with BMF yet.
My initial conclusions are set out in my provisional decision. In it I said I thought Mrs Ts 
complaint should be upheld because the car that was supplied to her was not of satisfactory 
quality, and I explained my reasoning as follows:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs T was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, BMF 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances.
In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and 
the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must 
last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says goods must conform to contract within the first six months. So, where a 
fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when the car 
was supplied, unless BMF can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after the first 
six months, the CRA implies that its for Mrs T to show it was present when the car was 
supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mrs T took possession of it, and this made 
the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask BMF to put this right.
Tyres
Mrs T says the tyres were overly worn  they were heavily cracked  and needed replacing 
by her just a few months after she acquired the car. She says this cost her £300 and it 
shows that the car supplied to her wasnt of satisfactory quality. But I have to tell Mrs T that I 
dont agree with her.
The tyres are items that I wouldnt expect to last the lifetime of the car, and Id not be 
surprised if these needed replacing soon after supply given the age and mileage of the car. It 
was, after all, nearly 10 years old and had been driven nearly 60,000 miles. And Ive noted 
that the car did pass its MOT immediately before Mrs T acquired it. Because of this, and 
without any evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied their condition is due to normal in use 
wear and tear. And any need for their repair or replacement doesnt mean the car was of an 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Bluetooth moduleMrs T says the Bluetooth module wasnt working, and it was also causing other related 
issues  she told us about the issues with the battery and the odometer, and there may have 
been other related electrical matters.
I can see from her timeline, that this problem had materialised no later than early April  this 
is when she replaced the car battery because the Bluetooth fault had caused it to drain and 
had damaged it to the extent that it could no longer be charged. And by 12 April, shes paid 
the garage £36 for an assessment of the situation, focusing on the recurring fault with the 
rear wiper, the flashing odometer, and the inoperative Bluetooth.
She paid a further £198, less than two weeks later, for the work the garage undertook to 
repair some things and confirm the cause of the Bluetooth issue. Her garage reported that 
The Blue & Me control unit is faulty has no communication which is causing a battery drain 
if left connected. 
So, its clear to me that the problems associated with the Bluetooth module arose within six 
months of Mrs T entering into the hire purchase agreement with BMF and acquiring the car.
Some research conducted by this Service uncovered the following No Bluetooth connection, 
battery drain, and flashing mileage is an increasingly common problem that is caused by the 
internal failure of the Blue & Me control module. And I understand that the module is located 
inside the rear passenger door panel and will commonly fail for one of two reasons; water 
ingress or poor quality components failing both of which lead to the internal breakdown of 
the unit.
It's my view that, either of these causes; water ingress or component failure, resulting in the 
failure of the Bluetooth module together with the related issues during the first six months 
since acquisition, means that the car supplied to Mrs T was not of satisfactory quality.
I now need to consider what would be fair and reasonable to put things right. Given that the 
car has been looked at a number of times and BMF has, in my view, wrongly rejected 
Mrs Ts complaint, I think Mrs T should be able to reject the car.
I need to consider that Mrs T has had some use of the car  she acquired it with a mileage of 
58,907, and at its last MOT in November 2023, the recorded mileage was 60,574, a 
difference of just over 1600 miles in one year of usage.
 
Im also going to take into consideration what shes told us about the worry and anxiety that 
this problem has caused her since she first acquired the car, and the inconvenience shes 
been caused, and Im going to ask BMF to pay her some compensation in recognition of this. 
Im also going to instruct BMF to reimburse her for some of the consequential costs shes 
incurred.
And I asked each party to let me have any further comments, by 19 December, that theyd 
like me to consider.
BMF provided no further comment or testimony.
Mrs T said she accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, and in the absence of any additional evidence or testimony from either 
party, Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
I direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to put things right by doing the following:
End the credit agreement with nothing further to pay.
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ts credit file in relation to this agreement.
Collect the car, at no cost to Mrs T, and at a time and date suitable for her. 
Refund Mrs T her deposit of £999.00
Refund all monthly payments made under this agreement, less an amount of 20% in 
recognition of Mrs Ts usage of the car.
Pay Mrs T £115.00  this is the cost of the new car battery.
Pay Mrs T £36.00  this is the cost of the initial assessment at her local garage
Pay Mrs T £198.00  this is the cost of the repairs she had to have undertaken 
following the assessment.
Pay 8% simple interest on the refunded amounts, per annum, from the time these 
payments were made to the date of settlement*.
Pay Mrs T £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue Motor Finance Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd must give Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Blue Motor Finance Ltd to 
compensate Mrs T as Ive directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman