DRN-3024824
The complaint
Mr B complained that UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr B was given a loan by UK Credit as follows: 
Loan Date taken Loan status Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountApproximate  
monthly  
repayment*
1 May 2019 outstanding 36 £10,000 £430.40
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. He didnt think that UK Credit 
shouldve provided the loan to Mr B and he set out the steps that UK Credit needed to 
take to put things right. 
UK Credit disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. It mainly said (Im summarising here) that there were factual errors in the 
investigators view and although our investigator felt that UK Credit shouldve done more 
checks to verify Mr Bs income and expenditure he hadnt said what additional evidence 
would have been seen. 
UK Credit said the bank statement our investigator relied on to say that the lending wasnt 
affordable wasnt enough on its own to support that conclusion as it just covered a single 
month. It said the information it had gathered showed the loan was sustainably affordable. 
Our investigator subsequently said that his main point was that UK Credit had a bank 
statement which clearly showed that its assessment of £950 disposable income was 
unreasonable.  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
When he applied for the loan, UK Credit asked Mr B about his income and expenditure. After 
looking at his most up to date bank statement and speaking to Mr B, UK Credit recorded 
Mr Bs income as approximately £2,216 a month. It asked Mr B about his regular 
expenditure, including his spending on other credit commitments disclosed in the credit 
checks that UK Credit carried out. It worked out that Mr B should have around £949 in 
disposable income. 
UK Credit said its affordability checks were adequate and proportionate and that based on 
the information gathered at the time of the application, the loan was affordable. 
But I dont think UK Credit made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr B based on the 
information it had gathered.
I dont think UK Credit thought carefully enough about what the information it had 
gathered showed about Mr Bs overall financial situation  and the likelihood of him 
being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
Despite the fact that Mr B had told UK Credit that his monthly outgoings were limited, leaving 
him with ample spare cash each month, I think UK Credit shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this information because that wasnt borne out by what it saw on its credit checks and 
Mr Bs bank statement. 
UK Credit was aware that Mr Bs only dependable source of income was made up from 
various government benefits he received  he wasnt employed in paid work so scope for 
improving his financial situation depended mostly on Mr B managing his spending as his 
income was fixed and limited. His partner had a student grant and wasnt working. Mr B told 
UK Credit that he didnt expect any change in his circumstances.
I think UK Credit shouldve realised that despite what Mr B had said about his financial 
situation, it was unlikely that someone entirely dependent on benefits would have the 
amount of disposable income that UK Credit assessed for Mr B, given that the benefits Mr B 
received are largely worked out according to financial need (and Mr B had no other 
guaranteed income). 
And I think thats borne out by other information UK Credit could see. 
UK Credit saw that Mr B was already paying a debt management company and this money 
was going towards clearing at least eight defaulted debts  the most recent dating back just 
two years to May 2017. Mr B was also paying token amounts towards five County Court 
Judgements  the most recent one dating back 17 months. So I think UK Credit should have 
realised that this record of payment problems was a clear indication that Mr B had relatively 
recently faced some serious financial difficulty. And I think its a measure of the extent of 
Mr Bs money management problems that he was still also on a 2 year payment plan with a 
utility provider which makes me think his finances must have been very stretched if he hadnt 
been able to afford to pay for essential household services. 
Although Mr B explained all this on being young I dont think that was enough to have 
reassured UK Credit that his financial situation had improved sufficiently for Mr B to be able 
to take on such a substantial new credit commitment as the loan it was providing. 
I agree with our investigator that UK Credit shouldve taken into account that Mr B had set up 
his payment arrangements with the help of a debt charity and the relatively token amounts 
he was paying towards his old debts reflected what it had been agreed he could reasonably 
afford to pay. So its hard for me to understand why UK Credit concluded that Mr B would be 
able to afford to pay an extra £430 per month for its loan  and how it was able to feel 
confident that he would be able to maintain this monthly repayment for the next three years. 
UK Credit noted that Mr B had 4 outstanding loans with a total balance of £2,497, costing 
Mr B £112 each month and a credit card with balance close to its £250 limit  Mr B said he 
typically paid £15 each month towards this, so effectively he was making no real inroads into 
his credit card debt and that available credit option was mostly used up. It also saw that he 
had some returned debit payments on his bank statement. 
I've taken into account why UK Credit says it didnt draw any particularly adverse 
conclusions from this, but I think it failed to see the bigger picture clearly  and it didnt 
attach due weight to the information it could see that Mr B was still struggling to manage his 
money effectively. 
It appears also that UK Credit didnt spot a payment of £400 Mr B made to another high-cost 
loan provider that was shown on Mr Bs bank statements. Had it done so, I think UK Credit 
shouldve seen that the fact he was now applying for this large loan alongside other expensive credit was a clear warning sign, given Mr Bs financial situation and his particular 
circumstances, that he was still facing serious problems managing his money effectively. 
I think, faced with all the information it had gathered, UK Credits lending decision was 
unfair. Based on the information it had available, UK Credit couldnt reasonably have 
been satisfied that Mr B would be able to repay such a large loan over this loan term in 
a way that would be sustainably affordable for him. 
Overall, I dont think UK Credit could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this 
loan to Mr B wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his overall debts. 
So I dont think UK Credit shouldve provided this loan. 
The fact that UK Credit says that Mr B has made the loan repayments so far without any 
apparent long-term problems becoming apparent doesnt mean he has been able to do so in 
a way that is sustainable for him over the loan term. 
I dont think that anything Mr B told UK Credit when he took out this loan was sufficient to 
explain or rebut what UK Credit saw from its own credit checks and the bank statement it 
obtained and it shouldve realised that this loan wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr B. 
Although UK Credit says that the loan repayments for its loan and the loan seen on Mr Bs 
bank statement are still affordable out of the disposable income figure it calculated this 
doesnt affect my overall view. 
I dont think its reasonable to infer that what Mr B said about his finances was more 
persuasive than the evidence UK Credit saw  including the bank statement, which showed 
that Mr B had no significant spare cash to spend on additional credit. And even on the 
figures UK Credit had worked out, if Mr B had to pay £430 for its loan on top of the £400 he 
paid to the other high-cost lender, this meant he would be spending around 37% of his 
income on these loans alone. That would have been such a significant proportion of his 
disposable income committed to repaying credit that I dont think a responsible lender 
wouldve considered this loan sustainably affordable. And, in addition, Mr B still had to meet 
his other monthly outgoings and pay his old debts.
I take UK Credits point about basing conclusions on just one months bank statement. But to 
my mind, the balance of the evidence UK Credit had gathered clearly showed that it was 
very unlikely that Mr B was really in a position to take on more debt in a sustainable way  
and this was supported by what UK Credit couldve seen on the bank statement it acquired. 
Had UK Credit wanted to satisfy itself that the information on that bank statement wasnt 
representative of Mr Bs financial situation, then I think its fair to say that it couldve asked to 
see further evidence  perhaps additional bank statements covering a longer period. I cant 
fairly say that the bank statement it acquired wasnt an accurate reflection of the true state of 
Mr Bs finances without further evidence to support that viewpoint. 
As Mr B has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what UK Credit did wrong. So, I think UK Credit needs to put things right.
If I havent commented on everything UK Credit has said during the course of this complaint, 
thats because I am focussing on what is relevant to the outcome I think is fair and 
reasonable.
I have dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint 
and I hope that setting out my reasons will help UK Credit understand how and why Ive reached my decision. I would invite UK Credit to reconsider its position in light of what I've 
said.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr B was happy with what I said in my provisional decision.
UK Credit maintained its position and said:
whilst we agree that there was evidence at point of sale to show that Mr B had 
experienced financial difficulty in the past, the bank statements obtained showed he 
was making repayments to pay these back that were clearly within his means. 
I admit we should have obtained more evidence at point of sale to verify his income 
and expenditure, however in the absence of seeing how Mr B conducted his finances 
over a longer period, I feel it isnt possible to draw conclusions about the affordability 
of the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and UK Credit for responding in detail to my provisional decision. 
Id like to assure UK Credit that I've thought carefully about everything again before coming 
to my final decision. And whilst I have set out above only what seem to me to be the main 
points of concern theyve raised, I have read thoroughly and taken into account everything 
they have asked me to reconsider.  
UK Credit hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this 
case. Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision. I have addressed in my provisional decision all the points which have a 
bearing on the outcome. I appreciate that UK Credit takes a different view to me. But I still 
think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think UK Credit acted unfairly towards Mr B in any 
other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for a loan that should not 
have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr B shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
With this in mind, UK Credit should: add up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr B made should be deducted from this amount
 
if this results in Mr B having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then UK Credit should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr B bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Bs credit file regarding the loan 
when it is paid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to take off tax from this interest. UK Credit 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman