DRN-2271910
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy about how long Allianz Insurance Plc took to deal with her claim under her 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D had a water leak in her home that caused damage to a bathroom and hallway. Mrs D 
contacted Allianz to make a claim. Allianz accepted the claim and assessed the damage. 
However, there were a number of issues, including surveys having to be repeated and the 
amount of time that it took to progress the claim.
Mrs D complained to Allianz. When Allianz replied, it accepted that the claim had taken 
longer to resolve than it should have. It offered Mrs D £150 compensation.
Mrs D complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that there 
had been a number of avoidable delays that meant the claim had taken longer to resolve 
than it should have. She said Allianz should pay a total of £350 compensation, which 
included the £150 already offered.
As Mrs D did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mrs D submitted a separate complaint about how the initial part of the claim 
was dealt with, which was also considered by this service. My decision only relates to the 
period relevant to this new complaint and I wont be revisiting that earlier period.
It isnt in dispute that this claim could have been dealt with more quickly and that there were 
a number of unnecessary delays. The issue is what is a reasonable amount of compensation 
to acknowledge the level of distress and inconvenience caused by the handling of the claim. 
I can see that there were a number of delays in the case due to issues with the how the 
claim was progressed. I have read all the details of the case, even if I dont mention it here. 
But, in summary, these were that Mrs D had to follow up on a number of occasions to try and 
progress the claim. Some parts of the claim were missed from the original scope of works, 
so a further survey had to be carried out. The redecoration took a while to start and there 
were issues with the wallpaper and the painting. Mrs D said she had to take a number of 
additional days off work to deal with the issues and, as she was paid a day rate, she wanted 
to be reimbursed for those days.
Im aware that Mrs D was also concerned that Allianz might have breached the General Data 
Protection Regulations (GDPR) because she thinks it possibly lost some data related to her 
claim. She would need to raise this with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), as it is 
the role of that organisation to consider possible personal data breaches.
As part of Mrs Ds complaint she asked to be reimbursed for additional days that she had to 
take off work, such as when some of the painting needed to be redone. I can understand 
that, but when looking at cases it can be difficult to directly attribute any loss of earnings 
solely to the unreasonable actions of the insurer, due to the number of variables that can be 
involved. Instead, we normally look at the overall level of distress and inconvenience caused 
and consider the appropriate level of compensation in the circumstances. Having thought 
about this case specifically, I see no reason to depart from that position.
So, thinking about what happened, I uphold this complaint as I think there were a range of 
issues with how Allianz dealt with the claim. I also dont think Allianz offered enough 
compensation to acknowledge the level of disruption to Mrs D. 
Putting things right
I think that £350 is a more appropriate amount of compensation based on the full 
circumstances of this case and the level of distress and inconvenience caused. This includes 
the delays in progressing the claim and the overall impact on Mrs D. As Allianz already 
offered to pay Mrs D £150 compensation, to be clear, this is an additional £200.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mrs D £350 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman