DRN-4070603
Complaint
Mr W has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC Barclays (Barclays) refused to accept 
his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr W bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2018. The purchase was 
funded, in part, by Mr Ws Barclays credit card, and that business is therefore liable for the 
acts and omissions of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr W alleges 
that the supplier misled Mr W into believing that the panels would be self-funding within 5 
years. 
Barclays did not uphold the complaint and it also added that, in any event, it didnt feel Mr W 
had suffered a loss. 
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Mr W signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
solar panel system would not cover the cost of the system within 5 years and therefore the 
system would not be immediately self-funding in the way Mr W says he was led to believe. 
He also agreed with Barclays, that it didnt look like Mr W was entitled to any redress, even if 
the complaint had been upheld. 
Mr W disagreed. He said (through his representatives) that the sale was conducted based 
on verbal representations made by the supplier and no detailed discussion about the content 
of the documents took place. They reiterated that the system was sold on the basis that it 
would be self-funding due to the financial benefits provided by the system. Finally, Mr W said 
his roof was now leaking where the solar panels had been installed. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr W paid for the system in part with his Barclays credit card, Barclays agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr W could claim against Barclays, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way 
he could have claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when 
deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr W and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Barclays.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of a quote provided to Mr W which sets out the benefits his system is likely 
to produce in detail. The quote had a very short covering letter  and the first-year benefit of 
£474 was clearly noted on there. This figure is also repeated throughout the document. 
Usually sales documents and quote reflect the nature of the discussions consumers have 
had with the supplier. Given this figure is so prominent throughout the quote, I dont think its 
likely that Mr W sat through a meeting with the sales representative regarding sale of this 
system without discussing the benefits he could expect from the system  specifically the 
annual benefit to some degree. 
I also think the cost of the system of £5,995.50 was made clear to Mr W. I dont think its 
likely that he would agree to purchase the system without knowing the cost. In this case, the 
system wasnt purchased thought a loan arranged by the supplier but instead Mr W appears 
to have paid for most of it himself, and then paid the remaining amount on his Barclays credit 
card. 
So I think Mr W was aware he was paying around £5,995 for the system, and his annual 
benefit amount was around £474. I think its apparent that the annual benefit amount of £474 
over 5 years would not amount to anywhere near £5,995. 
If Mr W had been told something different during the meeting, on receiving the quotation 
document with a very clear covering letter noting the annual benefit on there, I would have 
expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no evidence that he did, 
so I think that suggests that the document most likely did not contradict Mr Ws 
understanding, at that time. I also note that in his original letter of claim, while he says he 
was told the system would be self-funding, he makes no mention that he was told the system 
would be self-funding within 5 years. 
So I dont think its likely that the supplier sold the system on the basis that the cost was 
going to be recovered by the benefits received over 5 years. 
Barclays has also added that it has, in any event, run a redress calculation for Mr W. Our 
established approach to redress in these types of cases is to ask businesses to work out 
what benefit amount consumers are likely to receive over 10 years and ensure consumers 
pay no more than that. Barclays says that Mr Ws system is likely to produce £7,083 over 10 
years  and he paid less than that. As he has not suffered a loss, no redress would be due 
to him. So, it looks like the system will be self-funding within 10 years. 
Mr Ws representatives have also mentioned they believe that Barclays may have paid the 
supplier commission for selling finance to Mr W. However, unlike many cases we see in this 
area, the supplier did not arrange and sell Mr W a fixed some loan agreement to purchase 
the system. Rather Mr W funded it himself, with some of the cost being put on his credit 
card. I havent seen any evidence of any commission paid and I also havent found any 
misrepresentation. So, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair 
relationship in this case.
Mr W has recently advised his roof is now leaking where the solar panels were installed. As 
explained by our investigator, if Mr W feels the supplier is responsible for this, he should 
contact the supplier and Barclays about this in the first instance  and if he is unable to 
resolve the matter, he can refer this to us separately. But I havent looked at it as part of this 
complaint. 
Overall, while Ive carefully considered Mr Ws testimony, I find the documents from the time 
of sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of 
sale. So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint and Ive found no other 
reason to uphold the complaint. 
So I dont think Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably by not accepting Mr Ws claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman