DRN-2466090
The complaint
Mr N complains that the black box fitted to his car by Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company 
of Europe SE under his motor insurance policy drained his cars battery. He wants it to pay 
for a replacement battery, the cost of call-outs and a pro-rata refund for when he couldnt 
use his car. And he wants it to compensate him for his trouble and upset.
What happened
Aioi Nissay fitted a telematics box to Mr Ns car. He had a breakdown two months later and 
he said he also had two further breakdowns. He said the cause was the box draining the 
battery. Aioi Nissay appointed an engineer to look at the problem and he, and a senior 
engineer, thought the black box wasnt the cause of the problems. 
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the battery 
didnt have any problems before the box was fitted. Mr N had a breakdown report that said 
the cause was the black box draining the battery. He thought, from video evidence, that Aioi 
Nissays engineers tests were inconclusive. So he thought Mr N had no choice but to buy a 
new battery. 
He recommended that Aioi Nissay should remove the black box at no cost, if Mr N wished 
this. He thought Aioi Nissay should reimburse Mr N £85 for the cost of a new battery, give 
him a pro-rata refund of his premiums for the period when he was unable to use his car, with 
interest, and pay him £200 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
Aioi Nissay replied that it had no conclusive evidence from a manufacturer or dealer that the 
black box had caused the battery problems. It said its senior in-house engineer had 
reviewed the engineers assessment and he thought it was correct and the battery had 
damaged cells. It said it couldnt provide a pro-rata refund as cover had been provided 
throughout.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr N 
and to Aioi Nissay on 23 November 2020. I summarise my findings:
I could see that Mr N was certain that the black box installation was draining his battery. I 
could understand that it must have been frustrating for him not to be able to drive his car as 
he wished. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs.
When Mr N first reported the problem, it was more than 30 days since the box had been 
installed. Aioi Nissay then told Mr N that most installation issues arose straight away. It said 
if they arose after this period, then it asked the consumer to provide evidence from a main 
dealership to show that the box installation was to blame for issues with his car. It said it 
would cover any costs if it was found that the installation or the box were at fault. I thought 
that was a fair and reasonable approach as I thought it was for Mr N to show that the box 
was causing the breakdowns hed reported. 
Instead of a main dealer report, Mr N provided a breakdown report dated two months after 
the installation. This was completed by the attending engineer. It stated that the breakdown 
was a flat battery and the repair was made by boosting it. The report noted that the battery 
was new and that the black box installed was constantly draining power on the battery. 
In response. Aioi Nissay instructed its installers to send an electrical engineer to check the 
box. He thought the box was making an acceptable draw on the battery and wasnt 
responsible for the problems Mr N had reported. 
Mr N filmed the inspection and provided us with a copy of this. But, unfortunately, Ive not 
been able to view it due to technical reasons. But Mr N provided a detailed breakdown of 
what he noticed about the inspection, and so I considered this. 
I could understand that this was a frustrating experience for Mr N, and I could see that he 
didnt have confidence in the engineers skills. I could also see that our own investigator also 
thought that the engineer hadnt answered all of Mr Ns questions. And he thought the 
engineers tests werent conclusive. But, as Ive said above, were not engineers and so Im 
not qualified to make such judgements. 
Aioi Nissays senior engineer also considered the video and Mr Ns report. He thought the 
box would make less draw on the battery than the cars clock. He thought the electrical 
engineer had carried out the right tests and drawn the correct conclusion that the box wasnt 
responsible for the battery issues. He thought the problem may lie with damaged cells in the 
battery which were unable to hold sufficient charge to start the car. 
Aioi Nissay then told Mr N that if he provided it with a report from a main dealer detailing 
what tests were carried out and the reasons why it suspects the box is responsible, then it 
would review his concerns further. But I couldnt see that Mr N did this. From what I could 
see, he changed the battery instead. And, from what hes told us, the problem is ongoing, 
though I havent seen any evidence to show this.
I thought Aioi Nissay fairly and reasonably considered Mr Ns breakdown report and had its 
own engineer inspect the car. I thought it then reasonably had its own senior engineer 
review the inspection and the outcome. So I thought Aioi Nissay had justified its decision not 
to take responsibility for the breakdown issues Mr N has experienced. 
And I thought it reasonably offered to consider a report from a main dealer if Mr N wished to 
provide it. Id expect it to honour its offer to cover any costs if it was found that the 
installation or the box were at fault. 
As I didnt think Aioi Nissay had made any errors, I didnt require Aioi Nissay to pay Mr N any 
compensation or refund any of his costs. Mr N told us that he hadnt been able to use his car 
for over six months because of the problem. But we expect a consumer to mitigate their 
losses. And Id expect Mr N to have looked to resolve the problem during this time. Mr N has 
had cover from the policy, and so I didnt require Aioi Nissay to make any refund of his 
premium. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr N or Aioi Nissay, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to not uphold this complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr N nor Aioi Nissay have provided any further representations for me to consider. 
So I can see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman