DRN-2068960
 
Complaint 
Mr B complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited has declined to meet a 
claim under his motor insurance policy. He wants it to honour his claim. 
Background
In July 2019, Mr B noticed a warning light on the dashboard of his car relating to an engine 
fault. He took his car to his local manufacturing garage for inspection. The garage told him 
that his engine had failed and required replacing. He says the garage told him the cause of 
the failure was as a result of the wrong grade of oil being put into his car when it was 
serviced in March 2019. Mr B had his car repaired by the manufacturing garage and asked 
the garage who did the service (Ill call it garage A) to reimburse him for the cost of 
replacing the engine as its mistake caused the damage to his car. Garage A didnt accept 
liability and refused meet Mr Bs costs. 
Mr B then contacted AA to make a claim on his motor insurance policy. He said garage A 
had caused accidental damage to his car when servicing it. AA responded and said the 
damage to the engine was the result of a mechanical failure, which was not covered by the 
policy. Mr B didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, she recommended that the complaint 
should be upheld. She thought it wasnt fair for AA to rely on the exclusion relating to 
mechanical failure. She thought the evidence supported that the damage to the engine was 
caused by an accident and this was covered by the policy. She asked AA to refund Mr B for 
the repairs hed paid for with interest. AA didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to 
reach a decision on the complaint. 
My findings 
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr Bs has comprehensive cover meaning his policy provides insurance against loss or 
damage to his car caused by accidental or malicious damage, fire or theft. So, if the damage 
to his engine was as a result of any of the above his claim should be considered. 
AA has sought to decline the claim because Mr Bs policy has an exclusion that says 
mechanical breakdown is not covered by the policy. So, I need to decide if AA has applied 
the terms of the policy in a fair and reasonable way based on the circumstances of the claim. 
I dont think it has and Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that Mr Bs car is damaged and needs repairing or that there is an 
exclusion in the policy for mechanical failure. But the cause of the fault is important as this 
will determine whether its fair and reasonable to apply the exclusion to this claim.  Mr B has provided evidence to support that the cause of the engine failure was as a result of 
the incorrect grade oil being put into his car during a service. He has provided information 
from the manufacturing garage, which inspected his car when he first became aware of the 
problem. The garage identified garage A had put the wrong grade of oil into the car. 
Because of this the manufacturing garage said his claim wouldnt be covered under their 
warranty. At the time of the fault Mr Bs car was just over three years old with around 26,000 
miles. 
On balance, Im satisfied that the damage to engine was as a result of the incorrect grade of 
oil being put into the car by garage A  and this can be considered as accidental damage. 
Mr B has provided evidence from a manufacturing garage to support this. I acknowledge that 
the engine didnt fail immediately following the service and Mr B was able to drive the car for 
several months. But I think it likely that the damage caused by using the incorrect oil was 
gradual and at the time it caused the engine to fail is when the accidental damage occurred, 
rather than when the oil was put in.  AA hasnt disputed that this was the likely cause of the 
engine failure or given me any information to suggest there was another reason for the 
engine to fail. So, Im satisfied its most likely the engine failed because of the wrong oil in 
being put in the car causing accidental damage. 
I have noted the comments made by AA about the issue relating to negligence by garage A 
and the reference it made to the policy wording and incorrect fuelling. But having considered 
the specific circumstances of this claim, these points dont change my thinking overall 
thinking on how it was handled.  
In summary, I dont find that AA has reached a fair and reasonable decision when 
considering Mr Bs claim and it should have considered it under the accidental damage 
element of the policy and not apply the exclusion for mechanical failure. I note that Mr B has 
provided evidence that he met the cost of the repairs himself, so he needs to be reimbursed. 
AA should also pay Mr B interest on the amount that is reimbursed for the time he has been 
without the money. But I think it is fair for AA to deduct the amount of any policy excess as 
this would have applied if the claim had been accepted initially. 
My final decision 
For the reasons above, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to refund Mr B for the cost of repair to 
his car (less the appropriate policy excess) adding interest at the rate of 8% simple to the 
payment from the date Mr B paid for the repairs to the date of settlement. 
If AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken 
off.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman