DRN-3637911
The complaint
Mr W complains that ReAssure Limited failed to provide him with the information he needed 
to access his pension benefits when they became due.
What happened
Mr W held pension benefits with ReAssure. Those pension savings represented 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension benefits that he had accrued earlier in his working life. In 
short, the pension savings allowed Mr W to receive a guaranteed annuity when he reached 
65 years of age, with any surplus pension savings being available to him to purchase an 
additional annuity.
Mr W turned 65 in September 2021. Previously ReAssure had written to Mr W to inform him 
that it would be in touch to discuss his pension benefits as his 65th birthday approached. But, 
having received no information from ReAssure, Mr W contacted the firm via its website on 21 
August 2021.
Mr W didnt receive any response to his enquiry. So he telephoned ReAssure in early 
September. At that stage ReAssure told Mr W that it didnt hold a current address for him, so 
had been unable to send him the normal retirement information. It updated his address and 
said it would issue the retirement pack to him. That information wasnt sent to Mr W until 
21 September, and followed Mr W making further telephone requests and an initial 
complaint.
ReAssure wrote to Mr W in early October to apologise for the delays in sending him the 
retirement information. It paid him £150 for the inconvenience hed been caused.
By early October 2021 Mr W was still waiting for some of the information hed requested on 
his retirement options. He made a further complaint to ReAssure clearly setting out the 
information he had not yet received. Mr W says that, due to the delays in receiving his 
pension benefits from ReAssure, he needed to withdraw income from another pension 
arrangement.
ReAssure sent some further information to Mr W on 16 November 2021. But that information 
still failed to address the requests that Mr W had previously raised. So Mr W brought his 
complaint to us.
By mid-December 2021 ReAssure had finally sent all the information that Mr W required to 
decide how to take his pension benefits. He wrote to ReAssure on 27 December setting out 
how he wished to take his pension benefits and asking for the appropriate application form to 
be sent to him. Mr W followed that request up with a further letter on 21 January 2022, and 
enclosed a risk questionnaire that ReAssure had sent him.
ReAssure paid Mr W his pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known as 
tax free cash) on 8 March 2022, and started his annuity payments around a week later. 
ReAssure backdated the annuity payments by six months to reflect the delays Mr W had 
experienced in getting the annuity set up.
Mr Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think the delays 
in setting up the pension benefits were reasonable. And he didnt think that what ReAssure 
had done so far to compensate Mr W had been enough. He asked ReAssure to pay Mr W a 
further £150 (making a total payment of £300) for the inconvenience that had been caused. 
And he asked ReAssure to pay Mr W some interest as compensation for the time he had 
been without his pension income.
ReAssure accepted the investigators assessment. But Mr W disagreed. He said the 
payment the investigator had recommended failed to take account of the significant time 
hed needed to spend in dealing with the delays. And he said that hed had to withdraw some 
investments from a savings account, at a time of low market values, to replace the delayed 
income from the pension. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W and by ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
After we started looking at this complaint Mr W has made us aware of a further issue with his 
pension payments. He says that in July 2022 ReAssure got in touch with him, via the DWP 
tracing service, to say that it didnt hold his correct address. As a result it suspended his 
annuity payments. I understand that Mr W has now provided ReAssure with evidence of his 
address, and that it hasnt changed. And I can understand why this further problem has 
greatly upset Mr W. But, in this decision, I am only able to deal with the matters that arose at 
the time the pension benefits were originally put into payment.
The regulator has an expectation that businesses will communicate appropriately with 
consumers in the run up to their selected retirement age. It appears that ReAssure failed to 
provide that information to Mr W when it should have. I have seen that Reassure told Mr W 
that it didnt hold a current address for him. But Mr W has said that he had lived at his 
address for more than four years, and ReAssure had successfully sent annual statements 
and other information to that address without any apparent problems. I cannot therefore 
reasonably determine why ReAssure thought it didnt hold a valid address for Mr W. And so 
it should have sent the information he needed about taking his pension benefits well before 
Mr W reached his 65th birthday.But that earlier failure was compounded by further delays in issuing the requested 
information to Mr W, and in ultimately putting his pension benefits into payment. I am 
satisfied that, if nothing had gone wrong Mr W would have taken his pension benefits 
immediately after his birthday in September 2021  instead his benefits werent put into 
payment until almost six months later.
I am pleased to see that ReAssure accepted that it had caused those delays, and agreed to 
backdate the start of Mr Ws annuity payments. That, at the very least, meant that he didnt 
lose out on any income that he was due to receive. But, like our investigator, I dont think 
that ReAssure went far enough with the compensation it paid to Mr W. However, as I will 
now go onto explain, I dont think it fair or reasonable that ReAssure be asked to 
compensate Mr W for any costs or losses arising from the additional income he needed to 
take from his other pension, or his savings investments.
Mr W has told us that he managed his income for the rest of the tax year to ensure that the 
additional income he took from his other pension arrangement didnt give rise to any further 
income tax liability. So, whilst I can appreciate that needing to take that additional income 
might have been inconvenient for Mr W, I dont reasonably conclude that it has caused him 
to lose out financially.
To manage his taxable income Mr W says that he also made a withdrawal from some 
investments he held in an Individual Savings Account (ISA). He says that the timing of that 
withdrawal meant it was at a particularly poor market value. Again I am sure that needing to 
use savings of this nature would have been disappointing for Mr W. But I cannot agree with 
his conclusion that those savings couldnt be replaced. 
Mr W has told us that his current circumstances mean that he is now reliant on his pensions 
and savings as he doesnt receive any other income. So it seems to me that would leave 
most, if not all, of Mr Ws annual ISA allowance available for him to use. So, on receipt of the 
PCLS, he could have replaced those ISA savings that he had withdrawn. And I am satisfied 
that, the interest I will go on to direct should be paid on the delayed PCLS monies is 
sufficient compensation for any changes in the value of Mr Ws ISA investments that might 
have arisen over the time he was without the money.
Due to ReAssures delays, Mr W spent a period of almost six months without access to his 
PCLS. And each month until March 2022, Mr W failed to receive the annuity income that he 
should have. So I think it is right that ReAssure should pay interest on those sums to Mr W 
to reflect the time that he went without those monies. Bearing in mind that there is normally a 
short period of time during which a PCLS payment is calculated, and an annuity is set up, 
I think it reasonable to base that compensation on the dates our investigator proposed. 
Namely, that the PCLS payment should have been made by 7 October 2021, and the first 
annuity payments made by 21 October 2021.
There is no doubt that these delays have caused distress and inconvenience to Mr W. He 
has needed to rearrange his finances to cover the gaps caused by the delay in his annuity 
being put into payment. And, at a time when he has explained his health was recovering 
from a serious illness, he has needed to spend extensive amounts of time chasing ReAssure 
for the documents it should have routinely provided. 
Ive thought carefully about what level of compensation it would be appropriate to direct 
ReAssure to pay for that distress and inconvenience. Having done so I agree with our 
investigator that a total payment of £300 would be fair and reasonable. So since ReAssure 
has already paid £150 to Mr W, this decision will direct it to pay him the balance.Putting things right
I think that, had no delays occurred in the provision of pension benefit information to Mr W, 
his PCLS would have been put into payment by 7 October 2021 and the first annuity 
payments made by 21 October 2021.
ReAssure should pay Mr W simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on the value of the 
PCLS and the value of each of the monthly annuity payments from the date they should 
have been paid as set out above to the actual date of payment. HM Revenue & Customs 
requires ReAssure to take off tax from this interest. ReAssure must give Mr W a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
ReAssure should pay Mr W a further sum of £150 (making a total payment of £300) for the 
distress and inconvenience these delays have caused to him.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman