DRN-3471282
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly declined her claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA).  
What happened
In or around February 2007, Mrs R agreed to purchase a timeshare product from a supplier 
who Ill refer to as S. The purchase price agreed was £10,000, of which £7,000 was funded 
under a new regulated credit card agreement with BPF.
In or around February 2021, using a professional representative, Mrs R submitted claims to 
BPF under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. The original letter of claim is detailed in its 
content, so it isnt practical to repeat everything said in full here. But I will provide a summary 
of the key points below.
The PR allege that Mrs R purchased the timeshare product having relied upon 
misrepresentations made by S. And under section 75 of the CCA (S75), BPF is jointly liable 
for those misrepresentations. In particular, the PR allege:
S presented the timeshare product as an investment. And based upon this, Mrs Rs 
main objective was to purchase the product for re-sale at a later date. However, this 
wasnt achievable, and S knew, or ought to have known, there was no secondary 
timeshare market; and
Mrs R continues to incur annual maintenance fees which continue to increase each 
year.
The PR further suggest theres been a breach of contract as S entered an insolvency 
process and is unable to provide the service sold. And under S75, they think BPF are jointly 
liable for that breach.
The PR also allege that the misrepresentations, amongst other things, mean that an unfair 
debtor-creditor relationship exists under section 140A of the CCA (S140A). In particular, the 
PR allege:
the terms of the agreement are so egregious so as to be unfair in themselves;
payment of commission by BPF to S was hidden from view;
there was a breach of fiduciary duty;
Mrs R was pressured into entering the agreement;
Mrs R wasnt given time to read or consider any of the information provided;
Mrs R wasnt advised she could consider other creditors;
the product was unsuitable and failed to provide the advantages promised; and
S didnt undertake a proper affordability check.
In response, BPF didnt uphold Mrs Rs claim/complaint. They thought Mrs Rs claims had 
been submitted too late under the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA). They also 
didnt agree thered been a breach of contract as the management company operating the 
timeshare product purchased had confirmed that Mrs R could still book holidays and list her 
timeshare for resale subject to and in accordance with their agreement.
The PR didnt agree with BPFs findings and referred her complaint to this service. They 
disagreed that the LA applied to Mrs Rs ability to refer her claims to this service. They also 
thought that various aspects of the product purchased had been deliberately concealed so 
that Mrs R couldnt reasonably have realised she had cause to claim prior to seeking advice 
from them in 2019. Because of that, they thought the limitation period should be postponed 
under S32 of the LA (S32). 
One of our investigators considered all the information and evidence provided. Having done 
so, they also thought BPF had a valid defence to the claims under the LA. They also didnt 
think there was a valid claim for breach of contract under S75 as it appears Mrs R is still able 
to use her timeshare product. Our investigator didnt think the provisions of S32 helped here 
as they thought Mrs R would reasonably have realised she wasnt receiving what she 
thought shed purchased without needing to seek advice. 
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings and requested time to arrange for further 
submissions to be prepared by counsel in support of Mrs Rs claim and resultant complaint.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mrs Rs complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further and reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook means Im 
required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was 
good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection to consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mrs R paid 
for the timeshare products under a regulated credit card agreement arranged at the time of 
the sale. So it isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. This means that Mrs R is afforded the 
protection offered to borrowers like her under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken 
this section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mrs R and BPF arising out of the 
credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). And because the product 
purchased was funded under the credit agreement, theyre deemed to be related 
agreements. Only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A. But as its 
relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mrs Rs complaint, relevant law also includes the LA. This is because the 
original transaction - the purchase funded by a regulated credit facility with BPF - took place 
in 2007. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA, but as its relevant law, Ive 
considered the effect this might also have.
Its relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont provide a legal 
service. And this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. 
Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their 
right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt necessarily to address in my 
decision every single point thats been made. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I believe are the most salient points having considered everything thats been said and 
provided.
Was the claim of misrepresentation under S75 made in time?
The PR says S misrepresented the nature of the purchase agreement and benefits to Mrs R 
when she agreed to purchase the product. And they believe this brings cause for a claim 
under S75.
But a section 75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to recover any sum by virtue of any 
enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that provision is six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, Mrs R had to make a 
claim within six years of when she entered into the purchase contract and credit agreement. 
The PR confirm this took place in February 2007. Thats because this is when they say Mrs 
R lost out having relied upon the alleged false statements of fact at that time.
Details of the alleged misrepresentations were submitted by the PR to BPF in February 
2021. But as this was 14 years after the purchase was completed and Mrs R first says she 
lost out; I believe a court is likely to find that her claim falls outside of the time limit permitted 
in the LA. 
Was the unfair relationship claim under S140A made in time?
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is also 
governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is also 
six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. 
However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, the High 
Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be determined by having 
regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination. In that case, that was the date of the trial or otherwise the date 
the relationship ended.
So, having thought about this, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. Any 
relationship between Mrs R and BPF continued while the finance agreement remained live. 
So, that relationship only ended once the agreement ended and any borrowing under it was 
repaid.
BPF have confirmed that Mrs R settled her loan on 4 October 2008. And as this was more 
than 12 years before her claim was submitted to BPF, I believe its likely a court would find 
that her S140A claim also falls outside of the time limit permitted in the LA
Could the limitation period be postponed?
The PR argue that the limitation period should be extended under Section 32 of the LA 
because Mrs R wasnt made aware of various aspects of the product agreement. They also 
allege that commission was paid by BPF to S which wasnt declared to Mrs R.
Section 32(1)(b) applies when any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been 
deliberately concealed from him by the defendant [my emphasis]. But the PR havent 
provided me with anything persuasive to suggest that S deliberately concealed anything 
from Mrs R to such an extent that she wouldnt have realised the product wasnt what she 
expected far sooner. So, I cant see why, given the allegations fuelling her claim, these 
particular issues prevented Mrs R from making her claim or, at the very least, raising a 
complaint earlier.
The PR argues that the terms of the agreement were so egregious as to be unfair in 
themselves since the payment of commission by BPF to S was kept from Mrs R. And 
because of that concealment, S32 applies. But I dont think the fact that BPF might have paid S commission was incompatible with its role in the transaction. S wasnt acting as an 
agent of Mrs R but as the supplier of contractual rights she obtained under the timeshare 
agreement. And, in relation to the credit facility, based on what Ive seen so far, it doesnt 
look like it was Ss role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mrs 
R advice or information on that basis. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest BPF were under any regulatory duty to 
disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is there any 
suggestion or evidence that Mrs R requested those details from BPF or S at any point. And 
on that basis, my view is that this particular argument by the PR doesnt help Mrs Rs cause 
here. 
The claim for breach of contract under S75
BPF have said that whilst S may have entered an insolvency process, the current 
management company have confirmed that timeshare owners remain able to fully utilise 
their timeshare products subject to the associated agreements. So, in the absence of any 
specific explanation or evidence to support why Mrs R believes theres been a breach of 
contract which resulted in a loss for her, I havent seen anything that would lead me to 
conclude there was such a breach.
Credit Assessment
Accepting that I believe Mrs Rs claim was brought too late, there are certain aspects that 
could be considered outside of S140A. In particular, in relation to whether BPF undertook a 
proper credit assessment. BPF havent provided any explanation or evidence to support how 
and if a credit assessment was completed. And given the passage of time, its likely this 
information is no longer available anyway. 
If I were to find that BPF hadnt completed all the required checks and tests  and I make no 
such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been completed, they 
wouldve revealed that loan repayments werent sustainably affordable for Mrs R in order to 
uphold her complaint here. However, I havent seen any information about her actual 
financial situation at the time. And theres no obvious suggestion or evidence that she 
struggled to repay the borrowing So, I cant reasonably conclude that the borrowing under 
the credit agreement was unaffordable for her. And given the borrowing was fully repaid in 
2008, there doesnt appear to be any evidence of loss here either.
Summary
Having considered everything available, and for the reasons mentioned above, I believe its 
likely a court would find that Mrs Rs claims for misrepresentation (under S75) and 
unfairness (under S140A) were brought to BPF too late under the provisions of the LA. And, 
as such, BPF appear to have a valid defence on that basis. 
I also havent found anything that persuades me that a claim for breach of contract is likely to 
be successful either. So, I cant say that BPFs response to her claim was unfair or 
unreasonable. And as Ive found no other reason why Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld; I 
wont be asking BPF to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman