DRN-3219359
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Metro Bank PLC took money out of her account after she became
caught up in a scam.
What happened
Mrs H was caught up in a money mule scam. She received an email from a company who 
claimed she was entitled to a PPI refund. In order to receive the refund, Mrs H was told she 
needed to pay legal fees. As she was unable to provide these fees in cash, the scam claims 
company told her they would transfer the money into her account, and she would need to 
purchase vouchers for an online retailer and provide them with the claim codes by 
scratching off the back of the card.
Mrs H was sent £420 on 8 December 2020 and two further payments of £324 and £495.10 
on 9 December 2020 from the scammer. As instructed, she went on to purchase a total of
£1,225 in vouchers at a supermarket  spread over eight transactions.
Metro received information that the funds she had received on 8 and 9 December 2020 
were part of a fraudulent arrangement. So, it returned £819.10 of these funds to the 
remitting bank on 14 December 2020.
Mrs H believed she was going to get a PPI refund, when in fact she was used to 
transfer fraudulent funds obtained from someone else. Metro accepts that Mrs H was 
unwittingly caught up in a scam and had no fraudulent involvement herself.
Mrs H complained because she had been duped and feels she has suffered a loss as a 
result. She told Metro that some of the money it had taken was hers, and not proceeds
of the scam. But Metro believes it has acted fairly.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and asked Metro to refund the money it had taken 
from Mrs Hs bank account. Metro didnt agree primarily because it thought Claytons rule 
should apply and it had a duty to return the fraudulent funds.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 February 2022 explaining why I was thinking of the 
same outcome as the investigator, but proposed Metro put things right in a slightly different 
way.
Mrs H accepted my provisional decision and Metro confirmed it has nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness, I 
have set this out below.
In making this decision Ive taken into account Metros own terms and conditions, relevant 
industry guidelines and good practice, regulations such as the Payment Service Regulations 
2017 (PSRs), legislation such as the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA); as well as what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable.
Its not in dispute that the transfers Mrs H received were the result of fraud. So, I 
understand why Metro may think it reasonable to refund the senders using the money 
available from Mrs Hs account. But it is also not in dispute that Mrs H was an innocent 
party to the fraud and all but £14.10 of the funds received, she transferred out as 
instructed, so there was little benefit to her. So, Im satisfied Mrs H is also a victim of the 
fraudsters and has been used as an unwitting money mule.
All the payments into Mrs Hs account were Authorised Push Payments (APP). These 
payments were also from scammed victims. The APP Voluntary Best Practice Standards 
produced by UK Finance in October 2017 sets out standards for sending and receiving 
banks to follow when processing a claim for an APP scam. Although not all banks were 
party to this, I consider the guidance to have been good industry practice at the time.
There are several relevant principles here:
The sending bank should notify their customer that because they authorised 
the transaction, the right to the funds is with the recipient.
The receiving bank will need to investigate and establish (to the extent it is 
able) whether the account is fraudulent and if funds remain.
The receiving bank will need to find evidence that the recipient has obtained 
the funds fraudulently.
Following the receiving firms investigation, identified funds should always be 
repatriated back to the sending firm at the risk of the receiving firm, subject to 
various exceptions. One of these exceptions is where there is a credible complaint 
or dispute from the recipient of the funds.
Therefore, good industry practice at the time said the receiving bank should investigate
whether their consumer had received the funds fraudulently. If they havent, the receiving 
bank is under no obligation to return the funds to the sending bank. In this case, Mrs H had 
a credible complaint. She played no part in the scam that had defrauded the senders, so 
didnt receive the funds as a party to the fraud. It follows then that Metro werent under an
obligation to return the funds to the sending banks.
In any case, I think Metros actions  although arising from a desire to help genuine victims 
of fraud  lead to an unfair outcome for Mrs H. She acted in good faith in accepting and 
passing on the funds and hasnt benefitted from most of the money paid to her. I say most 
as there was a surplus of £14.10  which represented the difference between what was 
deposited in her account (£1,239.10) and what she spent in vouchers (£1,225). Metro were 
under no obligation to return all the funds to the sending banks. In effect Metro have 
indemnified themselves using Mrs Hs money, without any prior agreement to do so, which I
dont find to be fair or reasonable.
Metro hasnt sought to rely on the account terms and conditions to overcome the PSRs. 
But looking at the terms I can see, and I acknowledge, that the account terms and 
conditions, on the face of it, might allow for Metro to debit the account. But the term, when 
applied in Mrs Hs circumstances, could be considered unfair under the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA) and so in my view ought not apply. This term creates a significant imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations under the contract to the detriment of the 
consumer. It might be fair to rely on this term where, for example, there was sufficient 
evidence to show the account holder was a fraudster. But that wasnt the case here. 
Instead, Mrs H was also the victim of a scam.
In response to the investigators view, Metro referenced Claytons Rule, but I dont agree 
that this affects Mrs Hs complaint. This rule relates to the order in which credits are paid 
into an account and the subsequent order in which the funds are then allocated/drawn out. 
Each withdrawal is presumed to be a return of all or part of the oldest deposit. The result is 
that the oldest deposit is withdrawn first, or the oldest debt is paid first.
In this case I cant see a basis for Claytons Rule to be engaged as Metro hasnt 
established to my satisfaction that Mrs H acted fraudulently or that it was entitled to take 
the funds out of Mrs Hs account in the first place. Therefore, I dont consider its fair and 
reasonable for Metro to return the funds to the sending bank and Claytons Rule doesnt 
affect that.
Ultimately, I dont think Metro has acted fairly and reasonably taking the money out of 
Mrs Hs account  therefore it should put Mrs H back in the position she wouldve been in 
by refunding her.
However, I do think Mrs H shouldnt benefit from the scam she was caught up in, which is 
why it remains fair that the surplus of £14.10 shouldnt be returned to her. But Metro 
should return the money that was otherwise Mrs Hs; along with interest from the date the 
payments were made to the date of settlement. As Mrs H hasnt been able to use her 
money, I think 8% simple interest per annum is the appropriate rate of interest to use to 
reflect the cost of Mrs H being deprived of this money.
Metro accepts Mrs H was an unwitting participant also a victim of fraud. But despite this, it 
doesnt seem Metro treated her with sympathy or care. Instead, they have held her 
responsible for losses shes neither caused nor benefited from (but for £14.10). So, I can 
see why she feels distressed and upset by Metros actions. I therefore think it appropriate 
for Metro to pay Mrs H compensation for the upset and trouble she was caused, I consider 
the amount of £250 is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
Metro must put things right for Mrs H as follows:
Refund the money taken from Mrs Hs account (£819.10) less that Mrs H retained from the 
transfers (£14.10). I make this to be £805. 
Add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date the money was taken from her account 
to the date of settlement. 
If Metro considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Pay Mrs H £250 compensation to reflect the distress it caused her.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to put things right for Mrs H as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman