DRN-3316355
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain about an incorrectly addressed statement sent by The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
On 31 January 2022 I issued a provisional decision. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided on a higher compensation award and for different reasons to 
the investigator. 
I must start by saying that Mrs W wanted a compensation award of £25,000 in this complaint 
and I believe she may have arrived at this figure after getting legal advice. As a service our 
awards are more modest than that of the courts. Having said that, I do think the amount 
needs to be increased. Ill explain why. 
When RBS sent the statement to Mr W and Mrs W in the incorrect name and Mrs Ws 
daughter found it, it forced Mrs W to make a decision whether to tell her daughter about how 
and why a different surname had been used for Mr W. Mrs W has told us how stressful this 
situation was for her given the reason for the name change originally - and this is why I think 
an increase in compensation is due. 
I have considered Mrs Ws request for a much higher award and I dont think its justified. I 
say this firstly as the reason and background regarding the name change couldve come out 
later and by other means. For example, Mr W may have decided he wanted to tell his sister 
the reason himself.
Ive also thought about the situation Mrs W was in when the mistake was made and although 
the error was caused by the bank, Mrs W chose to explain the background to the error to her 
family  rather than just saying it was the banks mistake. I say this as Mrs W had kept the 
information private from her daughter up until this point and she did have an opportunity to 
continue to do so here. 
RBS did acknowledge the error, correct it and put measures in place to prevent it happening 
again. This is what we would expect of a business in these circumstances. I can see its not 
happened again, so it looks like an isolated incident.
But as Ive explained above. I think the fact that Mrs W was put a position of having to 
choose what to tell her daughter, through no fault of her own, mustve been a stressful and 
difficult decision to make. And for that reason, I intend to ask RBS to increase its 
compensation amount to £750.
Reponses to my provisional decision
RBS didnt have anything further to add.
Mrs W responded by telling me more in-depth information about the impact the error had on 
her daughter and family. Mrs W sadly told me her daughter attempted to end her own life 
after finding out the news about her brother. For this reason, Mrs W didnt think the 
compensation amount Id offered was high enough. Mrs W went on to say that she had only 
recently been able to return to work, due to the stress this situation had caused her. 
Mrs W also said that my provisional decision suggested she lie to her daughter. She went on 
to say that its very different to lie to someone as opposed to keeping something from them 
to protect them.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the information Mrs W has shared and I wanted to thank her for being so 
honest and say Im sorry for what her and her family went through. 
Having thought carefully about what impact the information Mrs W shared has on the 
compensation amount, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W, but Im not going to increase the 
amount. Ill explain why. 
When RBS made the error by sending the statement in the incorrect name, it wasnt 
foreseeable that it would have the impact on Mrs Ws family that it has done. So, I am 
satisfied the key issue for RBS to compensate for is the position it put Mrs W in deciding how 
to tackle the question she was asked about her sons previous last name.
Mrs W has said that she didnt want to lie to her daughter as my decision had suggested. Im 
sorry that she felt thats what I was implying, but I can assure her that wasnt the case. By 
explaining the bank had made an error, she was simply pointing out what had happened. 
The choice to then go on to explain the background to the error was a choice Mrs W made. 
And while I am not concluding this was the wrong thing to do, I am merely pointing out there 
were other options available - but I appreciate Mrs W felt this was the right decision for her.
 
Its worth noting that I can only award compensation to Mrs W and her son Mr W. They are 
the only two eligible complainants here, as they are the account holders and have the 
relationship with the bank. So, any award I make wouldnt include the impact on Mrs Ws 
daughter. 
Putting things right
In summary and having considered all the information available to me, Im satisfied that Mrs 
W should be awarded the £750 mentioned in my provisional decision. The mistake made by 
RBS clearly had a big impact on Mrs W when it was discovered and put her in a difficult 
situation with her family  and Im satisfied she should be compensated for that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc pay Mr W and Mrs W £750 
compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman