DRN-3826094
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Coventry Building Society (CBS) told him he couldnt port his mortgage 
product. He says hes since been told the reason he was given for this was incorrect and he 
could have ported his mortgage and avoided extra charges. Mr K is also unhappy with how 
his complaint was handled.
What happened
Mr K held a fixed rate offset repayment mortgage with CBS which he was tied into until 
30 September 2022. He approached CBS in November 2021 to discuss increasing his 
borrowing and porting his mortgage product in order to purchase a new home. This was a 
new build property and Mr K intended to purchase it under a scheme that would save him 
25% off of the purchase price.
Mr K says CBS told him he was unable to port his mortgage to the property because it was a 
'section 106' market discounted property. He also says he was told he would not have to pay 
an early repayment charge (ERC) as long as he paid off his existing mortgage. So, Mr K 
went ahead and purchased the property with a different lender. 
Mr K then contacted CBS later on and wanted to port his mortgage product to the property 
he now owned. CBS informed Mr K he couldnt port his mortgage product because he 
already owned the property. Mr K says CBS has since told him he could have ported the 
mortgage product to begin with before approaching a different lender, so he thinks the ERC 
of £1,728.61 should be refunded, along with his mortgage exit fee of £125 and his new 
mortgage application fee which was £499. 
Mr K has also complained about the business representative that logged his initial 
complaint. He says the representative reached a finding without any investigation. 
CBS issued a final response letter on Mr Ks complaint and said the information he was 
given at the time was correct. CBS said Mr K wanted to borrow more funds temporarily to 
purchase the new property or borrow more funds elsewhere and then port the mortgage 
product at a later date. CBS says it advised Mr K he wouldnt be able to port the mortgage 
product under either of those circumstances. And, that if he redeemed his mortgage early, 
and didnt port it, he would need to pay the associated fees. CBS apologised that Mr K 
wasnt given more information about its complaint handling processes when he first 
complained, and it offered him £75 to say sorry for that.
Mr K remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. Two investigators have 
looked into his concerns, but they didnt think CBS had done anything wrong. As Mr K 
disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why.
Mr Ks main complaint point rests on the fact he thinks he could have ported his mortgage to 
the new build property without having to apply for lending elsewhere or incurring fees and 
charges. Mr K believes he was wrongly told he couldnt. 
Ive looked into this, but whether the property was a new build or not has little bearing on this 
complaint. I say this because Mr K wanted to borrow a significant sum from CBS in addition 
to his existing mortgage agreement, essentially so he could buy himself time to sell the 
property he owned and purchase the new property in the meantime. This meant, once he 
sold his property, he would then want to repay the additional amount hed borrowed. Mr K 
was told a number of times that this was considered a bridging loan and wasnt something 
CBS offered to any of its customers. 
Mr K also wanted to purchase the new property before selling his existing property, and this 
was not allowed under the porting terms and conditions. Overall, Im satisfied Mr K was 
clearly told CBS couldnt port his mortgage for two reasons. The first was that it couldnt offer 
him a bridging loan and the second was that he couldnt own the new property in advance of 
selling the old property if he wanted to port his mortgage product. 
Mr K told CBS he was under pressure to buy the new property quickly before it was taken by 
someone else and he also wanted to benefit from the 25% discount. As such, he made the 
decision to apply for lending with a different provider. His application was successful, and he 
purchased the new property while still holding a mortgage with CBS for the existing property. 
Mr K then approached CBS again, and wanted to port his mortgage product to the new 
property. But he had already been advised that its not possible to port a mortgage product 
to a property you already own, so CBS could not arrange this for him. I would like to point 
out that this is a fairly common policy.
Listening to the calls Mr K had with CBS, he seems to have been under the impression that 
if he sold his existing property, he wouldnt have to pay an ERC. I have not found any 
evidence that he was told this by CBS. Mr K was clearly told he had to sell the property 
before the product could be ported. But if he just sold the property and didnt port the product 
 he would need to pay the associated fees to end his agreement early. Again, this is a fairly 
common policy. 
Ive seen the email exchanges Mr K has referred to  where he thinks he was told the 
information he was previously given about porting the mortgage was incorrect. But CBS only 
confirmed that his mortgage was portable  and it is  but that doesnt mean it can be ported 
in any circumstances. Regardless of whether the property was a new build or not  Mr K 
couldnt have ported the mortgage the way that he wanted to. I would add that even if CBS 
did have a policy not to lend on new builds  CBS is entitled to decide what circumstances it 
is and isnt prepared to lend in. That would be a legitimate business decision and not 
something I could ask it to change. 
Ultimately, Mr K entered into an agreement with CBS for five years. He was aware at the 
time that if he broke the agreement early, before 30 December 2022, he would have to pay a 
charge and fees. The mortgage offer he signed clearly sets out that an ERC would be 
payable if the mortgage was redeemed early. It also says an exit fee would apply, which at 
the time of the offer was set at £125. It goes on to say that the product is portable but 
referred Mr K to a brochure called Moving your Mortgage to a New Property. And this 
brochure clearly says the porting mortgage scheme could only be used to purchase a new 
property  not one that you already own. If Mr K wanted to avoid paying an ERC he also had choices available to him. He could have 
chosen to remain in his existing home until the fixed rate ended less than one year later. Or, 
he could have looked for a different property that would have given him time to sell his 
existing property. Instead, Mr K decided to proceed with a different lender so he could 
purchase the home he wanted and benefit from the discounted rate. That was his choice, 
just as it is the lenders choice whether to offer a mortgage or not.
Considering everything, I dont think CBS did anything wrong. Mr K was aware he would 
have to pay an ERC if he didnt port his mortgage. And in order to port his mortgage product, 
the existing mortgage would have to be redeemed before CBS could give him a new one. 
Mr K decided to proceed with the purchase through alternative means, so I havent seen any 
reason CBS should refund the fees or charge associated with his decision.
In terms of the complaint Mr K has made about how his complaint was handled. This isnt 
something I can consider as it doesnt fall under our remit. The Financial Conduct Authority 
sets out what complaints we can and cant consider in its Dispute Resolution Handbook. 
Under Disp 2.3, it explains that this service can only look into complaints about financial 
services provided by the business. This does not include how it handles complaints. I note 
that CBS made Mr K an offer of £75 in compensation for this part of his complaint and that 
has already been paid.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman