DRN-2912807
The complaint 
Mrs W has complained about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) treated her 
when she switched from one of its packaged bank accounts, for which it charged her a 
monthly fee, to one of its fee-free accounts. She wants it to pay her compensation. 
What happened
Mrs W has banked with RBS for quite a few years and has held several different types of 
account. For some accounts, RBS charged her a monthly fee, and some were fee free. By 
2019, before switching to a fee-free account, she held a Select Platinum account for which 
there was a fee. 
Amongst other things, one of the potential benefits of the Select Platinum account was that if 
a customer overdrew the account, RBS applied lower charges for the overdraft than it 
usually applied to customers with fee-free accounts. Mrs W frequently overdrew her account 
and so used this overdraft benefit regularly. When she switched to a fee-free account, RBS 
withdrew it from her. She doesnt think this was fair, or that RBS gave her reasonable 
alternative options. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Ws complaint and didnt recommend 
that RBS should pay her any compensation. Mrs W didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her case, so it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case and Ive decided not 
to uphold it. Ive explained why below. 
Mrs W has told us that in 2019 she went back to education and wanted to reduce her 
costs. She has said that RBS gave her two choices about her bank account. She could keep 
the Select Platinum account and keep paying the monthly fee, or she could change to a fee-
free account and save the fee but pay higher charges for her overdraft. She has explained 
that in her view both options left (her) in the same position  (but she)  was able to 
borrow the money to pay off (her) overdraft  (and)  then continue fee free . 
I understand that Mrs W may have preferred an option with no monthly fee and low overdraft 
charges. Its possible that some special accounts for students may have provided this type of 
service and may have been available for Mrs W if she met certain conditions. But I think 
RBS was within its rights to withdraw the overdraft benefit from her when she switched to a 
standard fee-free account. The benefit was a specific feature of the Select Platinum account 
(some other packaged accounts had similar benefits) and RBS was not obliged to continue 
to provide it to Mrs W when she no longer held such an account. I dont think it treated her 
unfairly when it withdrew the overdraft benefit. And nor have I seen anything to make me 
think it restricted her options unfairly. 
I do not know if Mrs W borrowed the money to pay off her overdraft from RBS, from another 
bank, or from elsewhere, but taking a loan seems to have been her own decision. Even if 
RBS was involved, I havent seen anything to make me think it acted unreasonably. 
Mrs W has also told us she found cutting her costs financially difficult and thinks that RBS 
should have done more to help her. She has highlighted that RBS would have seen how 
often she overdrew her account, and I accept this. But she hasnt told us a great deal about 
the extent of her difficulties, or what help, if any, she asked RBS to provide. And once she 
had the loan, she didnt overdraw her account so much So, I dont think RBS did anything 
significantly wrong. However, if Mrs Ws financial difficulties still exist, then she is still free to 
approach RBS for help with them. I cannot give her any advice about this, but I would expect 
RBS to treat any request fairly and reasonably and to offer support that is proportionate with 
the extent of her difficulties.
 
During the past two years or so, Mr W has also complained that RBS mis-sold her the Select 
Platinum account and some of her other packaged accounts. We previously closed that 
complaint and for clarity I would like to confirm that I have not reviewed it within this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Ws complaint that The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc treated her unfairly about charges for her overdraft when she changed 
from the Select Platinum account to a fee-free account and restricted her options unfairly. I 
am not going to tell it to pay her any compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman