DRN-3395308
The complaint
Miss J complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd wants to 
remove public liability cover from her pet insurance policy before it will consider her claim.
What happened
Miss J arranged pet insurance for her new puppy. About a week later one of her older dogs 
snapped at the puppy and accidentally caught her ear. Miss J said the treatment was simple 
and she didnt claim on her insurance.
About four months later Miss J took her puppy to the vet. It couldnt see properly and was 
very anxious and reacted nervously to the vet. Miss J submitted a claim to Casualty for the 
eye treatment. But her insurer said it planned to remove public liability insurance as the pet 
had shown signs of aggression.
That wasnt the case. Shed completed her application for pet insurance correctly. Her puppy 
hadnt shown any aggressive behaviour before. The vet had suggested Miss J might contact 
a dog trainer to see if there was any problem between the two dogs. But Miss J said they got 
on very well. So shed like Casualty to continue the public liability clause of her pet insurance 
and settle the claim.
Casualty said the pets medical history showed signs of aggressive behaviour. And the 
referral to the behaviourist was to aid the relationship between the two dogs in the home. 
Having reviewed the information Casualty said it could only continue the pet insurance policy 
without the public liability section of the cover. And Miss J would need to accept the 
exclusion before its claims team could continue to assess her recent claim.
Miss J wasnt satisfied with Casualtys response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator could see the referral to a behaviourist 
was in relation to the older dog. And she felt it was clear from the notes the issue lay with the 
older dog, not with the puppy. 
So she felt it was unreasonable for Casualty to use that entry to say the puppy was showing 
signs of aggression. After looking at the medical notes she couldnt find there were signs of 
aggression. And she didnt think the interaction met the definition Casualty was relying on. 
So our investigator said Casualty should continue the policy without the removal of the public 
liability cover. And it should pay Miss J £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and for the delay into looking into her claim.
Casualty didnt agree with our investigator. It said the clinical history confirmed the pet had 
displayed signs of aggression, evidenced by the growling and barking and the need to 
sedate the pet when it returned. That fell within the definition of aggression defined in the 
policy terms. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss J took out the pet insurance policy for her puppy she was asked to provide 
certain information during the application. And this included confirmation that her puppy 
hadnt shown any aggression, aggressive tendencies or behavioural issues towards a 
person or another animal or been difficult to control. 
The pet insurance policy contains a clause that deals with any change in risk. The terms 
say the policyholder must inform Casualty of any change that may affect the pet insurance 
and cover protected. And that includes any change in the pets normal, everyday behaviour 
or if the pet starts displaying aggression.
When Casualty took the decision to exclude public liability from the pet insurance policy it 
relied on two incidents noted in the medical history. About a week after the insurance had 
been taken out, the pet had been referred to behaviourist. And about four months later it 
noted the records said the pet was very nervous will take treats out of your hand but does 
growl and bark. Have discussed with owner possibility of having to sedate pet.
Casualty said if they had known about this aggressive behaviour it wouldve offered the pet 
insurance without public liability cover. So it could only continue the policy on restricted 
terms. 
The policy defines aggression as harm upon another pet or person, whether caused 
reactively or without provocation. The threat of harm to another pet or person can include, 
but is not limited to snarling, growling, snapping, biting, barking or lunging. 
But I dont think thats whats happened here. The behaviourist referral mentioned in the 
medical history was in relation to the older dog. It was that dog thatd nipped the ear of 
Miss Js new puppy. 
And although the suggestion may have been made to help their relationship, the only pet 
showing signs of aggression was the older dog. The puppy was eight weeks old at the time. 
And Miss J said it was barely able to walk, let alone display signs of aggression. 
Casualty also noted the puppy growling and barking at the vet when it had a problem with its 
eye a few months later. Miss J says the puppy couldnt see and was very anxious. And 
theres nothing in the vets notes to suggest the puppy was acting aggressively or 
threatening or inflicting harm on anyone. 
The puppy was taking treats out of the vets hands even though it was very nervous. So I 
dont think it would be fair to say the behaviour mentioned in the medical history meets the 
definition of aggression contained within the pet insurance policy. 
I think its more likely the growling (which Miss J says was very quiet) was due to the pets 
nervous state and discomfort rather than a display of aggressive behaviour that should be 
informed to the insurer.
After considering the medical history I dont think Casualty have acted fairly in relying on the 
change in risk clause to add the public liability exclusion to her policy.Putting things right
As Casualty wouldnt consider Miss Js claim for treatment for her pet until shed accepted 
the public liability exclusion, her claim has been unnecessarily delayed. So to put things right 
Casualty should:
Continue the policy on the existing terms without removing the public liability cover
Pay £150 compensation to Miss J for the delay in looking at her claim and for any 
trouble and upset
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman