DRN-2560199
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service he received when he tried to make a claim under his home 
insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc.
What happened
Mr F has a home insurance policy underwritten by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA). This covers damage to the buildings of his home and loss or damage to his homes 
contents amongst other things.
Mr Fs patio door was smashed by vandals on the Friday of a Bank Holiday weekend. He 
called the helpline number, but got an automated message, which told him to call another 
number if the matter was urgent.
Mr F tried again the next day (Saturday) but got the same message. He called the alternative 
(urgent) number and was told he didnt have validated cover. RSA arranged for someone to 
attend Mr Fs property to fix the damage but told him hed have to pay.
Mr F started to make a claim on-line on the same day (Saturday), but got no response from 
RSA until the Monday  by which time his door had already been repaired.
Mr F asked RSA to register a complaint from him on the Tuesday of that same week. About 
a week later, he chased RSA but was told no complaint had been logged. He again asked to 
make a complaint, but when he chased again later was told that still no complaint had been 
logged.
Mr F tells us that eventually RSA considered his complaint, but only offered him £50 for the 
poor service in dealing with his complaint at the outset. He says he accepted this because 
he didnt wish to continue to try to deal with RSA over this matter.
Mr F then brought his complaint to us. He raised several issues. 
He wasnt happy he couldnt get in touch with RSA to make a claim over the Bank Holiday 
weekend, when it was urgent that he had his patio door secured. 
Hes unhappy he was referred across to another helpline number, only to be told they 
couldnt deal with a claim and hed have to pay for the repairs. 
Hes unhappy with the way RSA dealt with his complaint.
And hes unhappy that RSA have added details of his abandoned claim to the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. He believes this will mean he has to declare the 
incident to potential insurers in future and his premiums may increase as a result.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think RSA had done anything wrong. Mr F 
disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important first of all to be clear about what cover Mr F has  and doesnt have. His policy 
covers various things as a matter of course  for example, his buildings and his contents.
It doesnt automatically cover home emergencies, unless the customer opts to add that 
option to the policy. Mr F tells us he intentionally chose not to add that option when he 
bought the policy.
Mr F also tells us he read his policy documents in detail when he bought the policy. I think 
the policy booklet is reasonably clear about what is and isnt covered under the different 
sections of the policy.
The damage to Mr Fs property is covered. Theres no dispute about that. The buildings 
section of the policy says RSA will cover malicious damage or vandalism. When his door 
window was smashed, Mr F reported the crime to the Police. Theres no doubt the damage 
was caused maliciously.
So, RSA would pay for the repairs to the door, taking into account any excess. It was Mr F 
who chose to abandon the claim and to pay for the repairs himself.
That section of the policy doesnt include any specific indication of the time within which a 
claim will be settled. Claims relating to damage to buildings can take a while. The insurer 
may need to inspect the damage and/or obtain quotes for the work. And I dont think its 
unreasonable in that context for RSA to say that their claims helpline isnt a 24-hour service.
The home emergency section of the policy - which may or may not be in play depending on 
whether the customer chose to pay for that option  gives a different helpline number. This is 
the number to which Mr F was referred when he called the main claims helpline number on 
the weekend in question. 
This section of the policy, as the name suggests, covers emergencies. It says RSA will pay 
for certain types of emergency work when the home is unsafe or insecure. It goes on to 
give more detail. Under the heading Home Security, it says RSA will cover: 
Securing your home if its left unsafe or insecure as a result of damage to, or the 
failure or breakage of, the frame, glazing or locks of the outside doors or windows of 
your home.
So, Im satisfied that when you read the policy as a whole, its absolutely clear that RSA will 
pay for the repairs to Mr Fs patio door under his buildings cover, but  because he chose 
not to opt for home emergency cover - they arent obliged to deal with that damage as an 
emergency. 
I dont think it was unfair, in that context, for Mr Fs call to the main helpline to be directed to 
the emergency helpline. Its an automated message and many of RSAs customers will have 
opted to take out emergency cover. 
And even though RSA werent going to cover emergency repairs for Mr F  about which they 
were very clear when they spoke to him  he was at least given assistance in finding a 
contractor who would carry out the work as matter of urgency.Ill turn now to the question of what record RSA have entered into the CUE database. Ive 
seen a copy of the CUE entry. It says Mr F made a claim, but the amount paid was zero.
That is an accurate statement of the facts. Mr F did make a claim. He later chose not to 
pursue it, but that was his choice. RSA are obliged to report claims, whether or not they 
result in a payment.
Its not unreasonable for potential future insurers to take those facts into account. Insurers 
are entitled to assess risk. And often they will be interested  not unreasonably - in any 
losses suffered by the potential policyholder, whether or not a claim was made and, if a 
claim was made, whether or not it resulted in a payment. 
To put it bluntly, how Mr F chose to pursue his claim - or not - doesnt alter the fact that his 
patio door window was damaged by vandalism. And its not unfair or unreasonable for 
insurers to take that into account  or to decide it means the risk of future losses is more 
likely.
RSA themselves have decided not to allow the abandoned claim to affect Mr Fs no claim 
discount with them. But as their policy document makes clear, there can be no assumption 
that that discount will apply if insurance is taken elsewhere in future.
I can see from our case file that RSA paid Mr F £50 compensation for their poor handling of 
his complaint. As our investigator has already explained to Mr F complaints handling is not a 
regulated financial activity, so its not something we can look into for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman