DRN-4321598
The complaint
S, a company, complains about how A plan holdings (A plan) arranged its Contractors 
Combined insurance policy.
Ss complaint is brought by one of its Directors but for ease of reference I shall refer to Ss 
submissions as being its own in this decision.
What happened
A plan was instructed by S as its broker to arrange insurance for it. A plan did this for several 
policies S took out including a Contractors Combined insurance policy.
S made a claim on this policy in 2022, which A plan notified to Ss insurers. The insurer 
determined that S had failed to correctly disclose its turnover when it took out cover for two 
policy years. After A plan made several representations to the insurer about the turnover 
declared being a mistake rather than a deliberate misrepresentation, the insurer agreed that 
S could pay the difference in premium it should have paid if it had correctly disclosed its 
turnover when it took out the insurance, rather than void the policies. The insurer said this 
would have amounted to a further premium of roughly £39,000.
S paid the premium but feels that the failure to disclose the correct turnover was not 
attributable to it but rather because of A plans actions. S says the premium would have 
been the same as it paid for the policy if A plan had disclosed the correct information about 
its turnover to its insurer from the outset. As a result, it wants A plan to fund the additional 
premium it paid to keep the policies in force.
Our investigator considered Ss complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He said that 
although A plan should have noticed there was a discrepancy in the figures S had provided, 
it did make efforts to clarify the position later with S and S was given the opportunity to 
address this but didnt. As a result, he said that A plan wasnt responsible for the position S 
now finds itself in.
S doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding S complaint. This is why.
Its incumbent on policyholders to ensure they disclose all relevant information required to 
allow an insurer to decide whether its prepared to offer cover and if so at what premium. In 
this case Ss insurer said that the information that was provided to it about its turnover wasnt 
correct. S says it wasnt responsible for this and that A plan were to blame.
Having considered everything, Ive concluded that I dont need to determine whether A plan 
were responsible for passing on inaccurate information to Ss insurer or if that was 
something S needed to check was correct. Thats because Im not satisfied theres any loss 
to S in this case, as contended. 
Its accepted by both parties that the information provided to the insurer about Ss turnover 
for two policy years was wrong. This led to that insurer applying an additional premium of 
£39,000 to ensure S was still on cover when the mistake was discovered.
I understand the additional premium would always have been payable had the turnover 
figure been correctly disclosed by S or A plan to the insurer and that this figure would have 
represented the premium payable at the time it fell due. So, its not the case that this amount 
is a higher premium than would ever have been applied. Given the issue was corrected by S 
making payment of the additional premium, I dont think it makes any difference who was at 
fault in either disclosing or checking the turnover figure. This would only make a difference if 
I were persuaded that S would have done something differently had that premium been 
known to it before it took out those policies. For the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think it 
would have.
I havent seen anything to suggest that S would have decided to arrange this specific 
insurance through another broker. S had arranged several other policies through A plan the 
previous year, so theres a good chance it would have been inclined to do so again as it did 
in the two years that followed. The submissions S has made are that the additional premium 
wouldnt have been payable at all had the correct disclosure have been made, but Im 
satisfied thats not correct based on what the insurer has said- namely that the premiums 
would have been applied from the outset if the correct turnover figure had been confirmed to 
it. In the absence of any compelling evidence to support that S would have found a 
comparable policy based on the same set of risk factors including the correct turnover 
figures, for considerably lower cost, and that it would have gone elsewhere, Im not 
persuaded that it would have done anything differently. As such I dont consider there to 
have been a loss to S and therefore, I dont uphold its complaint against A plan. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ss complaint against A plan holdings.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman