DRN-3483646
The complaint
Mr K complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited (DCF) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ks employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
At the time the BSPS scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, Mr K had 5 years and 
8 months of pensionable service with his employer which gave him a total (index linked) 
pension of £3,501.44 per year (forecast to be £8,904 per year at age 65 or £6,453 at age 
60). After the DB scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, Mr K joined his employers 
Defined Contribution (DC) scheme. 
In September 2017 Mr K had received a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) from the 
DB scheme of £67,495.80, valid for 3 months. 
DCF completed a fact-find in late August 2017 to gather information about Mr Ks 
circumstances and objectives. Mr Ks circumstances at the time were noted as follows:
He was aged 26, was getting married the following month and had one child aged 
almost two.
He was employed as a team member earning £48,000 per year. His partner was 
working part-time and earned £800 per month.
All his monthly disposable income of £290 was all being used to save for his 
wedding. Where his future wifes monthly income was going wasnt documented.
His house was valued at £92,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £72,000 with 25 
years to run.
He was paying £400 per month for loans/cards (repayment term undocumented).
He had an undisclosed amount in savings which was being used for his wedding. He 
had no other savings or investments. 
He was recorded as being a member of his employers DC scheme, making 
contributions of 6% per year along with employer contributions at the rate of 10% per 
year; the fund was valued at approximately £2,000. His partner was noted as being a 
member of her occupational scheme but there were no details about contribution 
rates or fund value. 
That he considered himself to have limited knowledge of financial terms and no 
experience of investment. His investment objectives were noted as growth up until 
retirement. 
His preferred retirement age was 57-60 and he estimated he would need £1,800 a 
month as income in retirement. 
That he didnt want to risk his benefits being reduced in the future by either the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or the BSPS2. 
He wanted to take control of his pension away from his employer and liked the idea 
of flexible death benefits and being able to leave his remaining pension fund to his 
children.
DCF also carried out an assessment of Mr Ks attitude to risk (ATR), which it deemed to be 
moderate or a risk level of 5 on a scale of 1 to 10. It also thought he had the capacity for 
loss as determined by his ATR. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the option to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
A transfer value analysis report (TVAS) was produced on 2 November 2017 which set out 
the amount of investment growth (known as the critical yield) required by the transferred 
funds to be able to match the benefits being given up in the BSPS. It said Mr Ks pension 
would need to achieve growth of 6.3% each year to match his full scheme income at age 65 
or 6.69% to match his full scheme income at age 60. It also stated that Mr Ks pension would 
need to grow by 4.98% to match the benefits he could receive from the PPF at age 60. 
On 8 November 2017 DCF provided Mr K with its suitability report and advised him to 
transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds with a provider 
(L) in 19 different funds to be actively managed by DCF. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation to Mr K were, in summary: 
That he wanted to have a flexible income in retirement to supplement his state 
pension.
That he wanted the opportunity to vary income in retirement to meet changing 
circumstances.
He didnt want to stay in (his employers pension scheme) until age 65 and wanted 
the flexibility to retire before then without penalty.
To have access to 25% of his fund as tax-fee cash (TFC)
The uncertainty about the BSPS, about benefits being cut further, about the PPF and 
the new BSPS2. Concerns over the new BSPS2 having benefits cut further.
Transferring his benefits would remove them from the control of his employer who he 
didnt trust.
Flexible death benefits.
Mr K accepted the recommendation and signed the transfer forms on 7 November 2017. The 
forms were submitted to L and Mr F signed a declaration on 10 November 2017 to say that 
he had received and read the suitability report. DCF were remunerated with an initial advice 
fee of £1,687.40 and an annual ongoing adviser fee of 1% of the fund value. L also charged 
an annual fee of 0.25%. The transfer took effect in early February 2018.
In April 2021 Mr Ks personal pension was valued at £78,252.
Also in April 2021, Mr Ks representative complained to DCF that the advice hed been given 
to transfer out of his DB scheme had been unsuitable and that the transfer shouldnt have 
been recommended in his circumstances as they were at the time. DCF looked into Mr Ks complaint but didnt agree that it should be upheld. It said the advice 
it had given Mr K was suitable, was in his best interests had met his needs and objectives. It 
said Mr Ks needs and objectives could not have been met by remaining in BSPS and 
transferring to the PPF or BSPS2. And it said Mr K was happy to take an investment risk 
with the aim of improving his benefits. DCF also said that, by transferring, Mr K could also 
take early retirement without his pension being subject to early actuarial reductions and that 
he also now had death benefits structured to his wishes. 
Unhappy with the outcome of DCFs investigation, Mr K complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He said he 
thought the transfer wasnt suitable for Mr K because it wasnt financially viable in that it was 
evident from the growth rate identified that he would attain significantly lower benefits at 
retirement than had been available under the BSPS. Our Investigator went on to say that 
Mr K should have been advised to remain in the BSPS and then, when the BSPS2 became 
available he would have opted to be transferred into this. Our Investigator also said that 
whilst the suitability report contained warnings about the risks of transferring this didnt mean 
an unsuitable recommendation could be made suitable. 
Our Investigator went on to say that any flexibility Mr K required could have been met by the 
DC scheme he was now a member of and which would accrue benefits over the next 30+ 
years. So he said that flexibility wasnt a suitable reason to transfer Mr Ks DB scheme, 
particularly when he had so long to go until retirement.
Our Investigator recommended that DCF should compensate Mr K for the losses he incurred 
by transferring his DB pension and that compensation should be based on him having opted 
to join the BSPS2. 
Mr Ks representative replied to say that it thought Mr Ks normal retirement date of age 65 
should be used in any redress calculation. 
DCF responded to say it disagreed with our Investigators findings which, it said, were unfair 
and unreasonable. It made the following comments: 
The BSPS2 was far from certain at the time so it plainly could not have 
recommended a transfer. It wasnt created until 31 January 2018. 
It had provided Mr K with a list of the advantages and disadvantages of the transfer, 
assessed his ATR and capacity for loss and made sure he understood about 
investment risk and it had acted in Mr Ks best interests. The Investigator failed to 
take into account Mr Ks significant capacity for loss. 
It had advised Mr K that the critical yield may not be achievable. The only critical 
yield that should be used for comparison purposes was the one for the PPF so the 
Investigator was wrong to focus on the critical yields associated with BSPS.
The total investment return on Mr Ks fund whilst it was managing his pension was 
equivalent to 7.07% per year which was well in excess of the critical yield for the PPF 
and higher than those associated with BSPS. It is reasonable to think these returns 
would have continued. This shows Mr K was improving his retirement benefits as a 
result of the transfer.
It questioned the relevance of using discount rates. The discount rate quoted of 4.7% 
was very close to the critical yield for the PPF, was around the regulators mid-growth 
rate and well below the actual return on Mr Ks pension. The regulator didnt require 
firms to consider or apply discount rates when advising consumers. 
That our Investigator had had no regard for how Mr K said he wanted to spend his 
income in retirement. 
Meeting the critical yield doesnt determine the overall suitability of the advice.Mr K wanted flexibility in retirement, was worried about the inflexibility of the PPF and 
wanted to be able to take TFC at age 57-60 without drawing an income at the same 
time. 
Mr K preferred the death benefits offered by the personal pension. 
That even if it hadnt advised Mr K to transfer he would have proceeded anyway as 
an insistent client. 
Mr K had four compelling reasons for accessing his pension: to retire early without 
actuarial reduction; to access TFC without drawing an income from his pension; to 
take control of his pension; to allow any unused pension to be left to his wife and 
children in the event of his death. Mr K would not have been able to achieve his 
objectives without transferring. 
Our Investigator considered what DCF had said in response to his view but wasnt 
persuaded to change his mind about Mr Ks complaint. He said that had Mr K not been 
advised to transfer he would not have had to rely on uncertain future investment 
performance to provide a retirement income. He also said the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), stated that the critical yield was a key consideration when advising 
on the transfer of a consumers DB scheme. So he said it was appropriate to place 
significant emphasis on the critical yields identified in the TVAS and, he said, they indicated 
that Mr K would need to take significant investment risks, in excess of those he was 
comfortable with, just to match his BSPS benefits. 
Our Investigator thought DCFs statement that the actual net return on Mr Ks pension of 
5.82% per year should be increased to 7.07% in order to provide a direct comparison with 
the critical yield was misplaced. The return of 5.82% was net of charges as were the critical 
yields so they provided a direct comparison. Our Investigator said the comparison of the 
critical yield to the benefits being given up in the BSPS formed part of the basis of DCFs 
recommendation to Mr K so it was entirely appropriate that these figures were referred to 
when assessing the suitability of the transfer. 
Our Investigator also said that Mr Ks retirement income requirements could have been 
partly met by remaining in the scheme. He said any flexibility Mr K needed at retirement 
could have been met provided through Mr Ks DC scheme so it was clearly demonstrated 
that his stated objective of flexibility could have been met without the need to transfer. And, 
he said, Mr Ks desire for control because he no longer trusted his employer could just have 
as easily been achieved by transferring to the PPF or BSPS2 as neither were under the 
control of his employer. 
DCF disagreed with what our Investigator had said. It replied and stated that it was clear that 
Mr K was concerned about his future benefits being cut if he joined the PPF or BSPS2 and it 
was clear it had discussed the Time to Choose document with Mr K. It said Mr Ks 
accumulated benefits only represented about 7.19% of his current employment income so 
there was plenty of scope to build a significant retirement fund in his DC scheme. 
Consequently, Mr K had the capacity for loss. 
DCF also sent some further comments to our Investigator. It said any compensation 
calculation needed to be based on the PPF, not BSPS2 because BSPS2 didnt exist at the 
time the advice was given. 
The complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCF's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, like our Investigator, Ive decided 
to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons. 
The regulator, the FCA, states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer 
from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, DCF should have only considered a transfer if 
it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ks best interests. And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
DCF carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ks pension fund would need to grow by each year (the critical yield) in order to 
provide the same benefits as his DB scheme. This analysis was based on his existing BSPS 
scheme benefits, but Mr K didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS; he either needed to 
opt into BSPS2 or move with the existing BSPS scheme to the PPF. 
DCF has strongly argued that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead so the only comparison it 
could provide was with the benefits available to Mr K through the PPF. But I think DCF 
overestimated the chance of this not happening; Mr K had received his Time to Choose 
pack by the time the advice was given. And details of the scheme had been provided; the 
BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been 
lower. Of course, its possible this may not have gone ahead, but I still think the proposed 
benefits available to Mr K through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored in with this advice so 
that he was able to make an informed decision. 
According to the fact-find and the suitability report Mr K wanted to retire from British Steel 
early  between the ages of 57-60. Mr K wasnt sure what income he would need at that 
stage but estimated he might need £1,800 a month. The TVAS dated 2 November 2017 set out the relevant critical yields; at age 65 it was 6.3% if he took a full pension and at age 60 it 
was 6.69%. Given that one of the objectives Mr K had, and one of the advantages of the 
transfer DCF cited, was to take 25% TFC flexibly it is notable that DCF didnt calculate the 
critical yield required for such a scenario at either age. 
The critical yield required to match the benefits provided through the PPF was 4.98% if Mr K 
took a full pension at age 65 or 4.82% if he took a reduced pension and a pension 
commencement tax free lump sum (PCLS). At age 60 the critical yields were 5.43% and 
5.28% respectively. As Ive said above, Mr K remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an 
option. So, the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits should also have been 
provided by DCF. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased 
the critical yields somewhat but, I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those 
reflecting the PPF benefits, particularly at age 65. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.7% per year for 37 years to retirement. For 
further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ks 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. DCF confirmed it assessed that Mr K was 
likely to be a moderate risk investor given he had over 37 years before he expected to retire, 
so he had the capacity to build pension funds in between and tolerate some losses.
There would be little point in Mr K giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Here, the 
lowest critical yield was 4.82%, which was based on Mr K taking a reduced pension and a 
PCLS through the PPF at age 65. The critical yield if Mr K took a full pension (no critical yield 
having been produced for a reduced pension and TFC) through his existing scheme at age 
65 was 6.3%. So, if Mr K were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at age 65 
the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those figures, and likely closer to 6.3%. 
Given the discount rate of 4.7% and the regulators middle projection rate of 5%, I think Mr K 
was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by the PPF 
and the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing in line with 
that attitude to risk. And I am confident had DCF informed Mr K of the true value and 
benefits of BSPS2 and the PPF, and then advised him to remain in the BSPS, he would 
have accepted this and when the availability of BSPS2 arose, he would have opted to be 
transferred into it.
DCF says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because taking 
this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent based 
my findings on this, I think it a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to 
determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under 
COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid 
under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable 
assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be considered 
a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in 
tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Ks attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe 
hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
DCF said in its suitability letter: The critical yield required is high and it would be very 
unlikely that an investment could provide a return to match the benefits you are giving up. 
So it is clear to me that DCF realised that by transferring, Mr K would be unable to match the 
benefits he was giving up. 
DCF provided analysis in the TVAS of the critical yields Mr Ks pension would need to attain 
for retirement at ages 60 and 65 and along with analysis of how long his pension last if he 
drew the same income (indexed linked) as provided by his DB scheme (without taking any 
TFC). If he retired at age 60 his pension would run out by the time he was 89 and if he 
retired at 89 it would run out by the time he was 89. If Mr K been advised to remain in BSPS 
however and transfer to the PPF or BSPS2, his pension would never have run out, 
regardless of how long he lived.
I note too that the TVAS analyses the hurdle rate (the rate of return required to purchase an 
annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by the existing 
scheme assuming no spouses pension and no index linking). The hurdle rate to age 60 was 
4.42% and to age 65 was 4.56%. So only the hurdle rates are below the discount rate I have 
referred to above. But only by using a method of comparison that didnt match the 
guaranteed benefits in Mr Ks BSPS, could it be argued that the DB scheme transfer was 
financially viable. But of course, index linking is a very valuable guarantee so I dont accept 
the hurdle rate to NRD at age 65 demonstrates that the transfer was suitable and in Mr Ks 
best interests. 
While DCF has referred to the past performance of the funds it recommended to him, as 
DCF will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider 
the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard 
in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long 
period of time.
Ive noted too DCFs comments about the actual performance of Mr Ks pension since it was 
transferred  that it has grown at a rate of 5.82% (or even as much as 7.07% per year) per 
year  and that it is reasonable to think these returns would have continued. For the same 
reasons as our Investigator, I cant agree that annual rate of return for Mr Ks pension should 
be 7.07%. But even if I did accept that this should be the applicable annual rate of return I 
dont think it shows Mr K was improving his retirement benefits as a result of the transfer. 
I say that because Mr K had a long way to go until retirement and because I dont think it is 
reasonable to assume, as DCF has stated, that such returns would have continued until 
Mr K had retired. Not only is past performance no guarantee of future performance, but, as 
Ive said above, the lowest critical yield was 4.82% yet this was still higher than the discount 
rate of 4.7%. And to attain an annual return rate that allowed him to improve on his DB 
scheme benefits, (which also provided for an income for his future wife in the event of his 
death), Mr K would have needed to have taken investment risks significantly in excess of 
those he was either prepared, or in a position, to take. 
I dont think that the length of time Mr K had to go to retirement makes his capacity for loss 
significant. I can see that Mr K had no investments or savings at the time of the advice and 
that he had 25 years left to run on his mortgage. It cant be assumed that just because Mr K 
had 30+ years to go until he retired that he could afford to gamble by transferring his DB 
scheme. The income he was forecast to receive at retirement from the scheme (if he 
remained) is, I think, one he didnt have the capacity to lose. In summary, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Ks benefits were reduced as a 
result, if he retired early he would have still been very unlikely to match, let alone exceed, 
those benefits by transferring to a personal pension. By transferring his pension I think it was 
highly likely that Mr K would be financially worse off in retirement. 
Given Mr K was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
his best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice, as DCF has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which 
mean a transfer is suitable and in Mr Ks best interests, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility
It seems the main reason that DCF recommended this transfer was for the flexibility and 
control it offered Mr K. Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr K needed to transfer 
his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement. Nor do I think 
he needed to access his DB scheme before his NRD such that it was at risk of actuarial 
reduction.
It's evident that Mr K could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take TFC and a reduced annual pension, Mr K had to take those benefits at the 
same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr K had any concrete need to take TFC and defer 
taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To my mind this seems more 
of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective.
Furthermore, DCFs advice ignores the retirement funds that Mr K would be building up over 
the next 30+ years, through his employers DC scheme. The fact-find says Mr K was 
contributing 6% of his salary per month. Mr Ks employer was contributing 10% of his salary 
per month. Whilst I dont know from this information exactly how much was being contributed 
to Mr Ks pension it is reasonable to assume that even with modest investment growth over 
the next 30+ years, Mr K will have access to a significant fund by the time he retires. And 
Mr K could use his DC scheme if he wanted to retire early, without needing to access his DB 
scheme before his NRD (thereby avoiding any actuarial reduction).
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. Although I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr K had opted into the BSPS2 
and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 65 Mr K 
wouldve been entitled to a pension of £5,337 per year (along with a PCLS of £35,582) from 
the PPF. This was lower than the pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2, but I dont 
think it was substantially lower such that it shouldve made a difference to the 
recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr K wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on until his 
state pension became payable, or until he reached his DB scheme NRD if he wanted to 
retire earlier, as well as his wifes pension to supplement their household income. So, I still 
think Mr K couldve met his needs in retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and 
hed had to move with it to the PPF.
Furthermore, the fact-find noted that Mr K and his wife were saving for their wedding (which 
took place a month or so after the fact-find was completed). Whilst there were no other 
savings documented, it is reasonable to assume that after their imminent wedding, Mr Ks 
disposable income of £290 per month and Mrs Ks income of £800 per month, could be put 
towards building up a savings pot. And their mortgage was due to be paid off by the time 
Mr K was aged 51 meaning he would have even more disposable income to put towards his savings thereafter. So potentially, by the time he wanted to retire, Mr K could have had a 
substantial savings pot to access flexibly to top up his retirement income.
DCF says Mr K wanted a retirement income of £1,800 per month in todays terms, meaning 
that in reality his income at retirement would need to be a lot higher. However, this was 
some 30 years away, so I think it was too soon for Mr K to realistically know what income 
hed need in retirement.DCF says that the value of the scheme income at age 65 would be 
around £8,904. Clearly this would not have met the income need Mr K had cited but I dont 
think this shows that it was in Mr Ks best interests to transfer to a personal pension. As Ive 
set out above, Mr K was unlikely to obtain benefits of the same value at retirement if he 
transferred his funds to a personal pension. So he would have had even less income than 
was forecast. But I still think Mr K had a better chance of achieving his target retirement 
income of £1,800 per month by opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits under which were 
guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on investment growth in a personal pension 
for all of his retirement funds. The majority of the pension provisions Mr K was building up 
over the next 30 years would be subject to investment risk, so I dont think it was reasonable 
to also place his guaranteed pension funds at risk.
And I cant see that there was any known need for the TFC without having to simultaneously 
draw an income (Mr Ks mortgage would be repaid some years before retirement). But if, by 
the time Mr K retired some 30+ years hence, he needed a lump sum without wanting to start 
drawing his pension at the same time there were, as Ive previously explained, other means 
available to him. And I think Mr K couldve met his income needs until his state pension 
became payable at age 68. Mr K would have likely had a significant pension to draw on 
flexibly (from his DC scheme), as and when he needed, to top up his income or take 
additional lump sums. So, I dont think Mr K would have had to sacrifice flexibility in 
retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr K could have met his income needs in retirement by maintaining the 
guaranteed income available to him through the BSPS2 or the PPF at age 65 and taking 
additional funds from his DC scheme until his state pension became payable. So, I dont 
think it was in Mr Ks best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that 
he didnt need. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr K. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr K might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr K about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think DCF explored to what extent 
Mr K was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr K 
was married (by the time of the transfer) and had a child so the spouses pension provided 
by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr K predeceased her. There was 
also provision for a childrens pension up to age 23 if they remained in full-time education. I 
dont think DCF made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr K. These were guaranteed 
and escalated  the spouses pension would also be calculated as if no TFC had been taken 
 so they were not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on 
death in a personal pension was. And as the TVAS shows Mr Ks pension fund would be 
depleted by age 89 if he achieved an annual investment return of 6.3%, so there may not have been a large sum left, if any at all, to pass on when he died. In any event, DCF should 
not have encouraged Mr K to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
DCF says that Mr K couldnt have achieved his objective of leaving a lump sum to his wife 
and children without transferring his pension; Im unable to agree. Transferring his pension 
was clearly not the only way for Mr K to achieve this objective. If Mr K genuinely wanted to 
leave a legacy for his child(ren), which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of 
his pension fund remained on his death, I think DCF couldve explored life insurance further. 
Mr K already had a significant death in service benefit through his employer and I can see 
from the fact-find that he and his wife had joint life insurance (though how much and for what 
term wasnt documented by DCF). So, arguably, Mr K already had sufficient life cover in 
place. But if he wanted an extra sum specifically for his children, he couldve taken extra 
cover out on a whole of life basis and written it in trust for the benefit of his children.
Furthermore, its evident that Mr K could nominate beneficiaries of his choosing under the 
DC scheme. So, hed already made provisions to ensure that the vast majority of his pension 
didnt die with him.
In any event, whilst death benefits might be important for consumer, there generally 
shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr K. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr K, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So its quite possible that Mr K was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was DCFs obligation to give Mr K an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice DCF gave Mr K shouldve properly taken the benefits available 
to him through the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Ks concerns 
about the scheme moving to the PPF. 
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCF shouldve 
reassured Mr K that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr K through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of the 
income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns shouldve led to DCF recommending Mr K transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
I also think Mr Ks desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr K was not 
an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on their own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr K it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme. It seems to me that Mr Ks stated desire for control related more to moving his pension away 
from an employer that he didnt trust than to any resolution on his part to begin to manage 
his investment. 
But it ought to have been explained that Mr Ks employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 
were not one and the same. And in any event, Mr K was not intending to leave his 
employment and his DC pension remained connected to his employer  so transferring out 
of the scheme didnt achieve the break from his employer. So had DCF explained that 
Mr Ks belief regarding the control Mr Ks employer had over his pension was misplaced, I 
think he would have been reassured by this.
Summary
Its clear that Mr K, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So its quite possible that Mr K was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF and his 
employer. However, it was DCFs obligation to give Mr K an objective picture and 
recommend what was in his best interests. 
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr K through 
the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Ks concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr K. But DCF 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr K might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr K needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to was Mr K suitable or in his best interests. He was 
giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr K was very 
likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular 
reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr K had a vague objective to retire 
between the ages of 57-60 and take some TFC but I dont think this was a fully formed plan; 
it was some 30 years away.  And I dont think DCF interrogated this objective in any 
meaningful way  it didnt establish how much TFC or income Mr K would need, so it 
couldnt offer any real insight into whether Mr K couldve met this objective by moving with 
the scheme to the PPF or the new BSPS2, or by using the savings already available to him. 
So, I dont think Mr Ks plans or ambitions were concrete enough for DCF to say it was in his 
best interests to give up his guaranteed benefits and transfer out of the scheme.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr K was likely keen to transfer out as 
he was worried about his pension and colleagues were telling him this was a good idea. 
However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr K. He 
should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explained what he was 
giving up in the BSPS and that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought. For 
the reasons given above, I think this advice should have been to remain in the BSPS. 
Mr K was being advised by DCF after having received the Time to Choose document and 
was at the point where he had to select which option to he wanted to take. I carefully considered what Mr K likely would have done  had he been suitably advised by DCF  and 
on balance I think he would have opted to join the BSPS2. I say this I dont think Mr Ks 
retirement plans were fully formed. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to 
accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it 
wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting 
into the BSPS2, Mr K wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme if he needed 
to at some point in the future. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was 
also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think DCF shouldve advised Mr K to opt 
into the BSPS2.
DCF says the BSPS2 had not been confirmed at the time it was advising Mr K and that it is 
unreasonable for us to say Mr K shouldve been advised to join this scheme as it wasnt a 
genuine option. I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was 
given. DCF was advising Mr K though only a month or so before the Time to Choose form 
had to be returned to Mr Ks employer. I think it was clear to all parties at this point that talks 
were progressing well and that BSPS2 was very likely to be going ahead. So, contrary to 
what DCF has said, I do think this was an option that it couldve recommended at the time. 
And I dont think DCF could be said to be acting in Mr Ks best interests by ignoring the 
progress of the new scheme and failing to consider whether opting into this scheme was 
suitable for him.
 
So, I think DCF shouldve advised Mr K to wait a very short while and join the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr K would've gone ahead anyway, against DCF's 
advice. DCF says Mr K had made up his mind to transfer and was talking to other advisers 
(with the cost of the advice being his principal concern). So DCF says that even though it 
had pointed out the risks of transferring, Mr K was adamant that the transfer was to go 
ahead. Put simply, DCF says that Mr K was as good as an insistent client who wouldve 
chosen to transfer even if it had advised him against it.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ks concerns about his employer or the PPF were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if DCF had 
explained that Mr K was always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed benefits available to him 
by transferring, that he shouldnt be prioritising death benefits over retirement benefits, that 
the flexibility he sought could be met by other means, that the uncertainty over his 
requirements meant transferring at that time was not in interests and that the other things 
hed expressed worry about were not things he needed to be as concerned about as he was, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr K would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
For this reason, I think DCF should compensate Mr K for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And its the benefits 
offered by the BSPS2 at age 65 which should be used for comparison purposes. This is 
because I know that Mr K is a very long way from retirement and has no firmly formed plans 
around when he will retire. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr K whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to be published. Mr K confirmed 
that he would like any redress to be calculated in line with current guidance. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr K. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr K, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for DCFs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr K would have 
most likely opted into the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given.
DCF must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
Mr K is a long way from retirement. So, compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ks acceptance of the decision.
DCF may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ks 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ks SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ks pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr K within 90 days of the date DCF receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCF to pay Mr K.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCF to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I intend to uphold this complaint and require D C Financial 
Limited to pay Mr K the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr K any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require D C 
Financial Limited to pay Mr K any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr K the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr K.
If Mr K accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr K can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr K may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman