DRN-3985956
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, hasnt treated him fairly in 
relation to a current account cashback rewards scheme.
What happened
Mr M holds a current account with Halifax.
 
Halifax runs a rewards scheme called Cashback Extras. The scheme provides customers 
with the chance to earn cashback on offers from selected retailers. Customers are required 
to activate an offer from a retailer, then pay that retailer via their Halifax account, to earn 
cashback.
 
Mr M took out a contract with a well-known pay-TV broadcaster and thought that, by doing 
so, hed receive around £70 from the Cashback Extras scheme. But that isnt what 
happened. Mr M called Halifax to complain, he had to spend quite some time on the phone  
which Halifax apologised for and said it would cover his call costs.
 
Unfortunately, things werent resolved, and Mr M contacted our service. We asked Halifax 
what happened, and it acknowledged that it hadnt yet provided Mr M with a clear 
explanation for why his cashback claim was unsuccessful.
 
Halifax clarified that Mr M hadnt made any payments to the retailer from his Halifax account. 
So, he wasnt eligible for cashback. It offered Mr M £25 in compensation as an apology for 
not explaining things sooner. Additionally, Halifax said that if Mr M could evidence payments 
to the retailer from his current account then it would be happy to reconsider its position.
 
An investigator here looked at what had happened. In short, she didnt think Halifax had 
done anything wrong. The bank had demonstrated that Mr M hadnt made a payment to the 
retailer in question from his Halifax current account, which was a condition of the scheme, 
and that meant he didnt qualify for cashback. In fact, she noted that Mr M had said himself 
how hed changed his payment instruction, so that his payments were sent to the retailer 
from an account he held with another bank.
 
With all of that in mind, it didnt seem unreasonable to the investigator that cashback hadnt 
been paid to Mr M on this occasion. She also thought it was fair of Halifax to be open to 
discussing the matter further with Mr M. Lastly, she felt that £25 was a fair and reasonable 
offer of compensation to reflect the inconvenience Halifax had caused him. 
Mr M disagreed, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. As no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres very little I can add to what our investigator has already explained to Mr M. Simply 
put, theres nothing to suggest that he qualifies for a cashback payment on this occasion.
 
From what I can see, he didnt make the required payments to the specific retailer in 
question from his Halifax current account. Theres nothing in his account statements to show 
that he did, and he himself has said that he moved his payment instruction to another 
account which he holds at another bank.
 
As I understand it, the rules of the Cashback Extras scheme require payments to be made to 
retailers from a Halifax account. Given that hasnt happened, it doesnt seem unreasonable 
that Mr M hasnt been paid cashback on this occasion.
 
I think its fair that Halifax remains open to discussing this matter with Mr M, should he be 
able to provide anything which shows he did make the required payments to the retailer from 
his Halifax account. And I think its right too that the bank acknowledges it couldve handled 
things better in terms of the service it provided. Both of which its done.
 
Overall then, Im satisfied that Halifax has acted both fairly and reasonably by covering the 
costs of Mr Ms calls, offering £25 in compensation for poor service and remaining open to 
discussing the cashback matter with Mr M.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has already made an offer of £25 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should pay Mr M £25.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman