DRN-2032419
The complaint
Mr J complains Nationwide Building Society blocked and closed his account and is unfairly
holding on to his funds. He wants his funds returned and compensation for the stress and
inconvenience he has been caused.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont detail everything
which happened here. In summary:
- Mr J held an account with Nationwide. In early 2020 Nationwide blocked the account
and conducted a review following a report of a fraudulent credit. It decided to close
the account and retained the funds.
- Mr J complained to Nationwide. He provided a letter from a third-party loss assessor
acting for an insurer in relation to a successful insurance claim. He says he deposited
cheques from the insurer into the account, so the funds in the account were
genuine.
- Nationwide rejected his complaint. It said it closed his account according to the
account terms. And it says it can hold on to the funds that were in Mr Js account.
- Mr J bought his complaint to our service. An investigator found Nationwide was able
to close his account and it could hold the funds in order to meet its legal and
regulatory obligations. Nationwide also didnt need to disclose the full reasons behind
its actions.
Mr J was unhappy with this outcome and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He
believes Nationwide cant have properly investigated the source of the funds in the account.
His complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
- Nationwide has broad legal and regulatory responsibilities. And to meet some of
those responsibilities it may need to review account activity and put in place
measures to prevent access to funds. Looking at all the information available to me, I
understand Nationwides concern and see why it blocked the account. I also find it
didnt cause unnecessary delay conducting its review.
- Nationwide could decide to close Mr Js account. It is after all a commercial entity
and can decide who it wants as a customer. It decided to close Mr Js account
immediately. And, accounting for all the information I have available, Im satisfied
Nationwide reasonably applied the account terms to close the account the way it did.
- Mr J says he is entitled to the funds which were held in his account. I have
considered very carefully the evidence he has provided. Clearly a letter from a loss
assessor showing a successful insurance claim is important to consider. But I have
weighed this letter against all the other evidence and information available to me.
And based on everything I have seen, Im satisfied Nationwide is able to currently
hold on to the funds to comply with its legal and regulatory requirements.
- I understand why Mr J wants to know more about the basis for Nationwides
position, but Nationwide is under no obligation I know of to disclose any more
information than it has. So, I will not disclose anything more by virtue of Mr J bringing
this complaint.
For the reasons I have given, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I wont be
directing Nationwide to return the funds previously held in Mr Js account to him. Nor will I be
directing Nationwide to pay him compensation.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman