DRN-3039163
The complaint
Mr B complains about the impact of Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) delay in putting a default on his 
credit file. He would like £12000 compensation for the six years the default was live.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
I appreciate Mr B was awaiting information from a data subject access request 
(DSAR) before he made final comments for me to consider. I believe Mr B has had 
sufficient time to come back with any further comments but hasnt done so. I think its 
only fair to Lloyds for me to now go ahead with my final decision.
Theres no dispute that Mr B was in financial difficulties and struggling to keep up 
with repayments plans. So, I dont think Lloyds were wrong to default Mr Bs account.
In a review in 2019 Lloyds decided that, due to the number of failed repayments 
plans, it should have defaulted Mr Bs account in 2015. It then refunded £117.67 of 
charges and interest that shouldnt have been charged. And subsequently credited 
his account with a further £107.66 of fees it feels could have been avoided. It also 
paid £400 compensation. And removed the default from the credit file. I think this 
response by Lloyds was reasonable
Mr B has told us the default applied by Lloyds prevented him purchasing a property 
and stopped him from taking out buy now pay later plans but he hasnt evidenced 
this. I appreciate a default is a negative indicator, but lenders typically consider a 
range of factors when offering products. With no evidence that Lloyds actions alone 
caused a problem, I cant reasonably ask Lloyds to further compensate Mr B  for this.
Mr B also feels his reputation has been damaged as a result of the default but hasnt 
explained why or evidenced the impact of this. I appreciate his concerns. But I feel 
the compensation Lloyds has paid has adequately covered any distress and 
inconvenience caused to him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complain
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman