DRN-3644230
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the way that HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with their remortgage 
application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T wanted to take remortgage with HSBC. But they said that the service provided 
by HSBC made that impossible. Mr and Mrs T complain:
Cancelled an advice appointment at the last minute and didnt book another 
appointment.
Ignored their attempt to book another appointment through LinkedIn.
When they contacted HSBC through a mortgage broker, they were initially told by a 
mortgage adviser that the mortgage they wanted was possible  but HSBCs complaint 
department later said that was wrong and that Mr and Mrs T didnt qualify for the 
mortgage they wanted. The mortgage adviser later obtained evidence that, in fact, the 
mortgage was possible. But HSBCs complaint handler didnt accept that. Mr and Mrs T 
said that HSBC lied that the mortgage had been automatically declined.
The offer of £50 compensation is inadequate. This matter has affected Mr Ts health and 
happened at a time he was vulnerable after going through surgery and suffering a 
bereavement.
The investigator said that HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs T £200 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused them.
HSBC accepted what the investigator said. Mr and Mrs T did not. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that HSBC provided a poor service to Mr and Mrs T.
Mr and Mrs T say that the complaint handler was wrong to tell them that they wouldnt be 
able to get the mortgage they wanted from HSBC. Mr and Mrs T said the complaint handler 
received an email from another member of staff confirming that a senior underwriter thought 
the application was acceptable.
The difficulty I have is that, despite asking for it, we dont have the email that Mr and Mrs T 
say supports that HSBC was wrong to say in the final response that the mortgage wasnt 
possible. We do have emails between the case handler and HSBCs credit policy 
department, who said that the mortgage Mr and Mrs T wanted included more than the 
maximum amount allowed for debt consolidation. The evidence we have does not support 
there has been an error by HSBC in the final response.
Even if we had evidence that another member of staff thought the mortgage was possible, it 
does not necessarily follow that they were correct or that the mortgage would have been 
approved.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ts strength of feeling about this matter  and I was sorry to hear 
about the effect this matter has had on Mr Ts health. But I only consider HSBC didnt act 
fairly or reasonably in the service issues that it has already accepted. And I consider the 
investigators recommendation of £200 is a fair amount to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience that caused to Mr and Mrs T.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank UK Plc should pay Mr and Mrs T £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman