DRN-2248185
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
In 1996 Mr and Mrs S bought a PPI policy at the same time as they took out a further 
advance. From what we know about the benefit it provided its most likely it also covered 
their existing mortgage repayments. Neither party can confirm where or how the sale took 
place. The policy was in Mr Ss sole name and gave him protection against accident, 
sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) my decision is based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the evidence 
we do have and what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. 
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say they were not told PPI was included in their monthly payments. They were 
never advised about it and would have refused it if offered. Lloyds says it hasnt identified 
any failings during the sale.
I cant know what was said in the meeting and Lloyds isnt able to provide documents to 
show how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs S. But the sale was over 20 years ago, so 
this isnt surprising or unreasonable. Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs S 
said but I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might 
affect what they recall. Without stronger evidence to show Lloyds didnt make it clear the PPI 
was optional, and Mr and Mrs S didnt agree to take it out, I cant fairly uphold the complaint 
on this point.
Mr and Mrs S dont recall if Lloyds recommended the PPI to them. The bank has said we 
can assume a recommendation was made. This is to Mr and Mrs Ss benefit as it means the 
bank had more obligations to meet during the sales process. It means they had to check if 
the PPI was right for Mr S. I know he feels he didnt need the cover, but I think it seems to 
have been right for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Ill explain 
why.
Mr S was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if he was sick, but the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months for each 
successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover. 
This would have allowed Mr S to protect any lump sum redundancy payment giving 
increased financial stability at an already difficult time. 
Mr S says he had some savings, but the PPI would have allowed him to use them to cover 
other costs whilst not working or to protect them for their future needs. Mr S also told us he 
held shares in the company he worked for, but this is not suitable alternative protection as 
the value isnt guaranteed and will vary. The PPI would have meant Mr S didnt need to sell 
them at an inopportune time. Mr and Mrs S had significant borrowings secured on their 
home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, I think the cover 
wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs S if Mr S was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs S all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know it made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. And I dont know that it pointed out the main things the policy 
didnt cover. But Mr S doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things (such as 
the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical conditions). So I dont think 
better information wouldve changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman