DRN-2128248
The complaint
Its agreed that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Miss M says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Miss M took out at the same time as she applied for a 
store card in June 2002 whilst shopping in the store. 
The policy covered Miss M in the event she was off work sick or she lost her job 
unexpectedly and became unemployed. It cost 1p per £1 of the amount owed on her card 
each month. It paid 15% of the outstanding monthly card balance while Miss M was off work 
until she either returned to work or the card balance was cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Miss M mainly told us that she didnt know shed taken out PPI. She said she signed the 
store card application form where there was an x telling her where to sign and she wasnt 
aware PPI had been added on. 
Miss M told us that she would never have wanted to pay an extra monthly charge and she 
wouldnt have agreed to the PPI if shed been able to make her own informed decision. 
Shes concerned that our adjudicator made the assumption that she wouldve taken out PPI 
if it had been properly explained. 
Miss M also told us she had no need for the policy as she always had savings and her 
employers always offered a generous sickness package.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Id like to reassure Miss M that Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator and decided not to uphold it. 
Ill explain my reasons.
What Miss M says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint just 
based on the way she says she was sold PPI. I have to look at all the available information 
and decide what I think is most likely - making reasonable assumptions where necessary. 
AXA has given us a copy of Miss Ms store card application.
The application form that Miss M signed when she took out her store card set out brief 
details of the benefits that Account Cover offered and included a section in bold type 
headed Protecting your Account.
Miss M has signed in this part of the form, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect 
my Account with Account CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly 
premium until further notice. 
I've taken into account why Miss M said shed signed here - next to the x marked on the form. 
And I can see that the x wasnt pre-printed - it looks like it was written in ink (possibly by the 
sales assistant). 
I dont know what (if anything) mightve been said to Miss M about the PPI. But I think its 
reasonable to expect Miss M wouldve first read through anything she was asked to sign when 
entering into a new financial commitment. And I think it wouldve been clear from the 
paperwork that it was up to Miss M to say if she wanted to have PPI added on as it says on 
this part of the form, next to where she signed: only sign this box if you require Account 
Cover. 
There were some other optional features on the form that Miss M didnt sign up to  these 
options have been crossed through. So I think Miss M probably understood that having PPI was 
her choice as well and it was up to her to say if she wanted to take out PPI alongside her store 
card. 
Miss M also signed the completed application next to where it says: Sign it only if you want to 
be legally bound by its terms. 
So it seems to me that by signing the form Miss M was indicating that she agreed with the 
information on the form at the time  even if, understandably, she has forgotten this now.  
This means I havent seen enough information overall to be able to say that AXA didnt make 
Miss M aware that the policy was optional or that it was added to her account without her 
consent. 
On balance, I think AXA did enough to make Miss M aware that she had a choice about buying 
the PPI and that it was added to her store card when she chose to take it out at the same time 
as she applied for the card. 
No PPI recommendation was made by AXA. This means that AXA didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable for Miss M. So it didnt, for instance, have to ask her about any savings 
or what other ways she had to pay her store card if she wasnt able to work. 
But it still needed to make sure it gave Miss M enough clear information so she could decide 
if the policy was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Miss M wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided. 
Miss M was entitled to 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months on half pay from her 
employer. Looking at the likely policy terms that wouldve applied, this policy couldve paid a benefit for 
as long as Miss M was off work sick or disabled. So it couldve paid out for longer than 
Miss M was entitled to sick pay through work. And the way the 15% pay out worked meant 
that the policy couldve cleared her card balance in full if Miss M wasnt able to go back to 
work.
The policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Miss M with a useful benefit at a 
difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result 
of being sick or disabled.
This benefit was also available to Miss M in the event that she lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. 
So PPI offered Miss M more protection than she couldve relied on getting through her 
employer. 
I've taken into account that Miss M mentioned having some savings she couldve used to 
pay her card balance each month if necessary. But that doesnt mean that the policy was 
mis-sold to her. 
It was up to Miss M to choose PPI  or not - knowing what her circumstances were at the 
time. And the amount of savings shes mentioned wasnt enough to mean that the policy 
benefits still couldnt have been of some use to her. 
So this information doesnt affect the outcome of her complaint. 
For all these reasons, I think the policy offered Miss M useful benefits in her particular 
situation. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But this didnt affect Miss M. So even if this 
wasnt explained as it shouldve been, I dont think its likely that having more information 
about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put Miss M off taking out the PPI as she couldve 
taken advantage of all the main policy benefits.
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Miss M clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But she signed up for the policy when she didnt have to. The policy provided the 
cover briefly described on the application form and there was an indication of how the cost 
would be worked out each month. 
It looks like Miss M was happy to pay for the PPI at the time as she agreed to pay the 
monthly premium when she filled in the application form.
Miss M couldve cancelled the policy at no extra cost if she decided it wasnt something she 
wanted to pay for each month. 
Looked at overall, given the useful benefits PPI offered Miss M, I think it unlikely she 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided.  On balance 
I think she still wouldve taken out the policy. 
This means that Miss M hasnt lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong. So theres 
nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman