DRN-3301805
The complaint
The estate of Miss B complains that a car finance agreement with Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (Barclays) was mis-sold to her and 
that the business have ben unreasonable not to transfer the finance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
The estate have been ably represented by Miss Bs daughter, but for ease, and because 
Miss B is named on the finance agreement, I will refer to the estate of Miss B throughout this 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about Miss Bs passing and I know this will have been a very 
distressing time for the family. Im sure Miss Bs daughter will have been distressed having 
to deal with financial issues such as this whilst she was grieving, and Id like to offer my 
condolences. Unfortunately, whilst I have every sympathy for the situation the estate of Miss 
B have found themselves in, I do agree with the findings of the investigator and I wont be 
upholding this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss B acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Misrepresentation
The estate of Miss B say that the finance agreement was misrepresented to her. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for 
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes 
out the credit agreement. 
So, if Miss B was given a false statement of fact by the dealership when she took out the 
agreement, and if that false statement of fact led her to enter into the agreement when she 
wouldnt otherwise have done so, I would think the agreement had been misrepresented to 
her and Id ask the business to put things right.
Im not persuaded there is evidence that Miss B was given a false statement of fact. There 
was nothing preventing her from taking out a finance agreement without a driving license 
and it was Miss B who was paying the agreement and who the business had ran affordability 
checks on.
Whilst I understand the estate of Miss B say that the dealership encouraged her to front the 
arrangement for someone else I dont think I have sufficient evidence to confidently suggest 
that was the case.
So, Im not persuaded there is evidence of misrepresentation here.
Settlement
The terms of the finance agreement explained that if Miss B died the business would need 
the account to be settled or the car would need to be returned to them.
The business dont have to agree to transfer the finance agreement into the estates name. 
That was never part of the agreement and the business would always need to perform a 
credit check on any new consumer to assure themselves that the agreement was affordable.
So, I dont think the agreement was mis-sold to Miss B and I dont think Barclays have done 
anything wrong when asking for the agreement to be settled in the way it has or when 
refusing to allow the agreement to be transferred.
Whilst I understand Miss Bs daughter, as administrator of the estate, is upset about the 
service shes received from Barclays Im afraid thats not something I can consider here as 
Miss Bs daughter isnt Barclays customer.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
B to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman