DRN-1701421
 
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2002 Miss B took out a mortgage with Nationwide, at the same time she was sold a PPI 
policy.
The policy covered Miss B against not being able to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The policy was free for the first 12 months after which it cost £19.95 per 
month. In the event of a successful claim the policy would have paid £400 per month for up 
to 12 months per claim.
In 2006 Miss B made a claim and received a total of £1,080.00.
The policy was cancelled in October 2009.
An adjudicator from this service didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Miss B didnt agree with 
the adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss B says the policy was added to the mortgage without her knowledge or consent.
Nationwide has been able to show us some of the documents from the time of the sale. I 
have looked at the mortgage application form signed by Miss B on 3 October 2002. I can see 
the application shows that Miss B had opted to take the PPI. I also see the mortgage offer 
also lists the PPI as having been selected.
Nationwide has also shown us copies of annual mortgage statements it would have sent to 
Miss B which include the premiums for the PPI.
I realise the Mortgage Product Confirmation Document has been signed by Nationwide but 
not Miss B. But the other documents Ive seen are persuasive evidence that the PPI was 
discussed with Miss B at the time of the sale and that she agreed to buy it.
I also have to take into account that the PPI remained on Miss Bs account until 2009 and 
that Miss B made a successful claim on the policy in 2006.
Taking everything into account I think its most likely the policy was presented to Miss B as 
being optional and she chose to take it out.
I cant be sure exactly what was information was given to Miss B during the sale of the PPI. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave her about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. 
But I think Miss B chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen of Miss Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Indeed, she was able to make 
a claim in 2006. So, it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong.
I note Miss Bs employer would have offered her some sick pay. But the policy sold to Miss B 
couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months for any one claim. And this is likely to 
have been longer than Miss Bs full sick pay would last. So, I think Mr B wouldve found the 
policy useful if she became too unwell to work, particularly if she couldnt work for a lengthy 
spell.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think any better information about the 
PPI would have put Miss B off taking out the cover. 
I realise Miss B had held a mortgage previously without PPI, but she was taking out a new 
mortgage so may well have taken the opportunity to put the cover in place, particularly as 
the policy was free for the first 12 months.
All of which means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Miss B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide does not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Miss B.
But Nationwide does have to pay back to Miss B any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman