DRN-3855587
The complaint
Mr A complains J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase (Chase) unnecessarily 
delayed three payments from his savings account without giving him a plausible explanation 
why. 
What happened
Mr A says he holds an instant access savings account with Chase and over a period 
between 2 June 2022 and 7 June 2022 it delayed three payment requests to bank accounts 
he held with other providers. Mr A says while he accepts banks may from time to time carry 
out certain checks, he cant understand, and has received no explanation why these three 
separate checks were undertaken by Chase. 
Mr A believes there is an issue with Chases system and processes and additionally the 
delays have resulted in him not being able to make an investment when he wished, which 
has left him financially disadvantaged. Mr A is also unhappy with Chases complaints 
process, and he feels it needs to be reviewed. Mr A is looking for an apology from Chase, a 
detailed explanation why the payments were delayed and compensation for the loss he says 
hes incurred. 
Chase says it has apologised for the delay in processing the payments, but it is unable to 
divulge its processes and procedures when undertaking security checks but offered to pay 
Mr A £40 for the inconvenience. 
Mr A wasnt happy with Chases response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and partially upheld the complaint. 
While the investigator didnt feel Chase needed to share its internal processes when dealing 
with fraud prevention, it had taken longer than it should to have processed the payments. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded the delays contributed to the intended share purchase but 
felt Chase should pay Mr A an additional £100 for the inconvenience it caused. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be partially upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come 
to my decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr A to have payment requests from his 
savings account referred for fraud checks by Chase. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Chase acted reasonably when it delayed Mr 
As payment requests and if it should provide him with a more detailed explanation as to 
what exactly triggered those payment referrals. Additionally, I will consider if Chases actions 
were the sole reason why Mr As planned share investment didnt go ahead at the time he 
wanted it to.  
While I understand Mr A isnt happy with Chases complaints process, its not the role of this 
service to scrutinise Chases complaints process or to tell Chase how it should deal with 
complaints more widely. While I understand Mr A doesnt feel Chase have dealt with his 
complaint in the way he wishes  my role is to look at whats fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances of a complaint and thats what I will do here. 
I have been provided with information from both parties and its clear that Mr A attempted to 
make three payments between 2 June 2022 and 7 June 2022 from his instant access 
savings account with Chase. 
The first of these for £14,007.21 was requested on 2 June 2022 at 15.20 to another banking 
provider and was referred for fraud checks, and the payment was released at 15.49. The 
second payment request for £19,000 was made on 6 June 2022  at 22.58 to a different 
banking provider and was again referred before being released at 10.14 the next morning, 
following a telephone verification. The third payment request of £6,050 was made on 7 June 
2002 at 10.49 and wasnt processed until 19.53 the following day.
The first thing to say here is Chase like all banks are entitled to refer payments if it has any 
security concerns and its worth saying, although he may not agree, these measures are 
also in place to protect customers like Mr A. I understand Mr A wants Chase to provide him 
with a detailed  explanation as to what triggered these referrals on his bank account, so he 
can take measures to prevent this reoccurring going forward. But that isnt something I can 
tell Chase it must provide as this is its security process and considered to be potentially 
sensitive business information. Its reasonable to say any information regarding what sits 
behind such security measures becoming more widely known, could be seen to undermine 
the process here. 
With that in mind and looking at the timeline of the payments, Im not persuaded that the first 
two payments were overly delayed especially given the second payment was made close to 
midnight so verification the following morning wouldnt be unreasonable here. I can see the 
third payment for £6,050 wasnt released until later the following day and it took longer than 
usually expected and explained as part of a backlog by Chase. For the reasons I have 
already given I am satisfied Chase acted fairly when it referred these payments for fraud 
checks. 
That said I cant see that the referral of these payments contributed solely to Mr A not 
making his £50,000 share investment at the time he wished. Furthermore, more generally it 
wouldnt be possible for me to be certain that any payment Mr A made to the other banking 
providers would have then been made by those two banks on time, to meet the share price 
Mr A was hoping to achieve. Its fair to say share prices are subject to regular fluctuations 
throughout the day. 
Having said that Chase have accepted it has caused some inconvenience to Mr A and 
accepted the investigators view and agreed to pay an additional £100 in compensation, 
making a total of £140, and I am satisfied that is fair and reasonable here. 
While Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Chase other 
than the compensation it has already offered.  Putting things right
I instruct J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase to pay Mr A an additional £100 in 
compensation bringing the total amount to be paid to £140. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase to pay Mr A an additional £100 in 
compensation bringing the total amount to be paid to £140.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman