DRN-3856056
The complaint
Miss S complains that she couldnt use online banking from The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-
Op).
What happened
Miss S took her young children abroad for a holiday. At the end of August 2022/early 
September 2022, she wanted to transfer some money from her Co-Op account to another 
bank account (which I shall call bank A) - which charged zero fees for foreign transactions. 
On 30 August 2022 and 31 August 2022  she made some debit card payments in the local 
currency from her Co-Op account. On 31 August 2022, she transferred £200 to her account 
with bank A using online banking. On 1 September 2022, her balance with Co-Op was 
£58.57 credit.
Miss S complained. She said her holiday was spoiled for a day because she couldnt get 
access to her money  because she couldnt transfer money online to bank A. And she said 
she couldnt use her Co-Op debit card because she left it at home in the UK. She also said 
she spent an hour on the phone trying to get through to Co-op. As a result, she said she 
couldnt afford to buy food for her young children.
Co-Op upheld Miss S complaint  because their online services were affected on 1 
September 2022. They apologised for any inconvenience but felt that their apology was 
enough for what happened.
Miss S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said Co-Op told us 
that their online and mobile banking services were down on 1 September 2022. And their 
phone services were also affected. But she could also see that Miss S had used her debit 
card abroad (albeit using her phone app). She could also see that Miss S transferred £200 to 
bank A on 31 August 2022, which left about £58 in her Co-Op account. She therefore felt 
that Miss S wasnt completely dependent on Co-Ops online services for money when she 
was abroad. She considered that Co-Ops apology was sufficient.
Miss S asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint; and so it has come to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has argued that because Co-Ops online services werent available, she couldnt 
transfer money to bank A (and then use bank A for purchases without any fees). And she 
said she couldnt use her Co-Op debit card because she left it in the UK. Therefore, she said 
she was left without any money.
So  I have looked at the evidence to see if Miss S claim that she was inconvenienced is a 
reasonable one. Co-Op told us their online and mobile banking services were out of action 
for most of 1 September 2022. I looked at Miss S banking records with Co-Op. These show 
that in fact, she made a transfer of £200 to bank A on 31 August 2022  so I assume she 
could then use the balance at bank A to make purchases abroad as she had intended. 
And she also used her Co-Op debit card to make purchases abroad on 30 August 2022 and 
31 August 2022  she told us that she did this by using the payment app on her phone, 
rather than using her debit card  but nevertheless, it looks likely she was able to use her 
Co-Op account. 
I accept that Miss S may have wanted to transfer the balance of £58.57 to bank A on 1 
September 2022  to spend abroad. And that may have been inconvenient  as it wouldve 
presumably meant she would have paid a fee to Co-Op if she used that account. But it does 
appear that she was able to use her Co-Op account if she wished, and so did have access 
to her money. And  I also think its reasonable to assume she couldve used the £200 which 
was transferred to bank A on 31 August 2022.
Co-Op explained that their phone services were affected and there were long wait times. But 
equally they also told us that there was a pre-recorded message warning customers of that 
when they called  which was a reasonable thing to do.
Therefore, Im persuaded that in the circumstances of Miss S complaint, she didnt suffer a 
great deal of inconvenience. 
Co-Op have apologised to Miss S. I think that was a reasonable way to settle her complaint. 
And so, while Miss S will be disappointed by my decision, Im not going to ask Co-Op to do 
anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman