DRN-4326664
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIE) declined his claim for 
accidental damage.
What happened
Mr A had buildings insurance underwritten by AIE which included cover for accidental 
damage. He claimed under the policy when a mains pipe in his garden fractured, causing 
damage to his garden.
AIE tried but failed to locate the damage, so it arranged to return another day with more 
equipment and permission to shut off the water. But Mr A was concerned about the damage 
the flood water was causing to his and neighbouring properties, so he had the repairs done 
by a private contractor.
On visiting Mr A again, AIE found that the repair was done. Mr A asked AIE to pay for his 
contractors costs because he felt let down by his insurer. However, AIE declined the request 
because there was no evidence of accidental damage.
Mr A complained to AIE. He said AIE didnt dig deep enough to expose the pipe, so it 
couldnt have known the cause of the damage. But AIE didnt change its decision about the 
claim, so Mr A brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. While there was no doubt the pipe had 
fractured allowing water to flood Mr As garden, our investigator didnt think Mr A had shown 
that thered been accidental damage. Therefore, she thought AIE had declined the claim in 
line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the pipe was more than a metre underground so something 
sudden and unintentional mustve caused the damage. He said, therefore, it must be 
accidental damage and covered under the policy. Mr A wanted AIE to pay towards his repair 
costs.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
The main issue of complaint is that Mr A doesnt think AIE shouldve declined his 
claim for accidental damage to his mains pipe. For me to uphold Mr As complaint, Id 
need to see that his claim was covered under his policy and that AIE declined it 
unfairly.
The policy provides cover for, Accidental damage to mains services which you are 
legally responsible for.
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as:
Sudden, unexpected and physical damage which:
i. happens at a specific time; and
ii. was not deliberate; and
iii. was caused by something external and identifiable.
The water company confirmed that the pipe was Mr As responsibility, and the damage was 
identified as being to the mains pipe. So, providing Mr A could demonstrate that the damage 
was accidental, then Id expect AIE to consider the claim under the remaining terms of the 
policy.
AIE declined the claim because it said the damage wasn't accidental. Mr A is unhappy with 
its decision because AIE didnt see the pipe in its damaged state, so it couldnt have known 
the cause. I understand the point hes making, but that doesnt mean the claim should be 
accepted. Its Mr As responsibility to show that the damage was caused by an event which 
meets the accidental damage definition.
Mr A said the pipe was underground, therefore it mustve been damaged at a specific time, 
not deliberately, and by something external. He accepts that the cause is not identifiable, but 
he fails to see how it could be identified. Mr A suggests it couldve been a minor earth 
tremor. Otherwise, he says the damage meets the definition.
Ive thought carefully about Mr As points, but I cant reasonably agree that hes shown the 
damage is accidental. An identifiable event would be something like a digger going too far 
down and accidentally breaking through the pipe. If an earth tremor caused the fracture, Mr 
A would need evidence that there was one which could reasonably have caused the damage 
at a specific time.
So, based on the evidence available, I find that Mr A hasnt shown that he suffered an 
insured event. Therefore, Im satisfied that AIE fairly declined his claim in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
Ive considered the remaining points of dispute which relate to the service AIE provided. 
Understandably Mr A wanted the pipe fixed as soon as possible, and he didnt know how 
long hed need to wait for AIE. So he arranged the repairs himself. However, as Ive decided 
that AIE fairly declined the claim, theres no reason why AIE should contribute towards the 
cost of the repairs.
Overall, Im satisfied that AIE declined Mr As claim fairly, for the reasons it gave and in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. I havent seen anything to suggest that AIE fell short in 
the way it handled Mr As claim to the extent that compensation would be warranted. 
Therefore, I dont require any further action of AIE in respect of Mr As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman