DRN-2265658
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly placed a fraud marker against his name 
and closed his bank account causing serious repercussions for him.   
What happened
Mr H held personal and business accounts with Barclays. 
Im aware that Mr H has made a separate complaint regarding his business account. This 
decision will address Mr Hs complaint about his personal account.
In January 2020, a payment for £3,000 was made into Mr Hs business account from another 
bank, which I will refer to as Bank A. Mr H then made a number of transfers of those funds 
from his business account with Barclays.
Bank A then contacted Barclays, indicating that the £3,000 payment it had made wasnt 
genuine, but had been made fraudulently. Barclays blocked all of Mr Hs accounts and 
decided it needed to look into how Mr H was operating his accounts. Following its review, it 
placed a fraud marker against Mr Hs name with CIFAS, the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance 
System. And it decided to close Mr Hs account immediately. 
Mr H complained to Barclays. He explained that he hadnt known the funds were fraudulent 
and said he hadnt done anything wrong. He told the bank that hed received the funds as 
payment for goods hed provided as part of his business. He said because of the marker he 
was having difficulty opening another bank account, his mental health had suffered, and 
because of the block he hadnt been able to pay his bills so had to borrow money. 
Barclays accepted what Mr H said about the funds and removed the marker on 9 April 2020. 
Barclays also offered Mr H £400 compensation for the trouble and upset hed been caused. 
Mr H said this wasnt enough to put things right. And he wants Barclays to reopen his 
account. So, he brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint. She said that Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Hs account. She said Barclays shouldnt have loaded 
a marker against Mr H and that hed suffered trouble and upset as a result. She thought the 
banks offer of compensation was fair. Mr H disagreed. He says the amount of compensation 
offered doesnt adequately reflect the amount of distress and inconvenience hes suffered. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cifas marker
The marker that Barclays recorded against Mr H is intended to record that theres been a 
misuse of facility  in this case using an account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file 
such a marker, Barclays isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr H is guilty 
of a financial crime, but they must show there are grounds for more than mere suspicion of 
concern. CIFAS guidelines say:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; and
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police
What this means in practice is that the bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr Hs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr H was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was or might be an illegitimate 
payment. A marker should not be registered against someone who was unwitting, there 
should be enough evidence to show deliberate dishonesty.
From looking at the evidence, I accept that the payment of £3,000 which was paid into 
Mr Hs business account was fraudulent  in the sense that the holders of the account from 
which it was made didnt authorise it or were being tricked into making the payment. Their 
own banks would have investigated the payment before reaching that conclusion and 
contacting Barclays. Of itself, however, that doesnt mean that Mr H was involved or knew 
the funds were fraudulent. 
Mr H has explained that he received the payment in exchange for goods he provided as part 
of his business  in other words he was an unwitting beneficiary of fraudulent funds. And he 
has been consistent in his explanation, which I find plausible. I havent seen any evidence 
that Mr H committed a criminal offence.  And Ive not seen any evidence that Barclays 
thought this. So, whilst I can understand the banks concerns, Im not satisfied that Mr H was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving fraudulent funds. And I dont believe placing a marker 
against Mr H was proportionate based on what happened. Nor am I convinced Barclays 
have met the industry best practice guidelines when placing this marker. 
Im pleased to see that Barclays removed the marker as soon as it had spoken to Mr H and 
accepted it shouldnt have placed the marker against him. The marker was removed on 9 
April 2020, so it was in place for just under two months. 
Its clear the marker has had a negative impact on Mr including causing him significant 
difficulties in opening another bank account. From what M Hs said and the evidence hes 
provided I dont doubt that the marker recorded by Barclays has impacted on him greatly. Its 
caused him a good deal of worry and upset. And the bank should pay compensation to him 
for incorrectly applying the CIFAS marker. In the circumstances, I agree with investigator 
that £400 is fair and reasonable compensation to pay in reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr H. So, whilst I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed, I wont be 
asking Barclays to do anything more. 
block and closure of account
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Barclays has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
Barclays may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. If Barclays 
didnt comply with its obligations it could risk serious sanction.Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Barclays to block Mr Hs account. Barclays has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Thats in line with what most banks would do in the same 
situation, and it enabled Barclays to consider how best to react to the report it had received 
from the other bank about the £3,000. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr H inconvenience, I 
cant say Barclays treated him unfairly when it blocked his account. 
Mr H wants Barclays to reopen his account. Hes pointed out that hes been a good 
customer of the bank for a number of years. But its generally for banks to decide whether or 
not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular 
customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a 
bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account 
closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Barclays closed Mr Hs account immediately. Having looked at all the evidence, in my view 
that was reasonable given the banks concerns about how Mr H was operating his account. 
So, it was entitled to close the account as it has already done. And I wont be asking the 
bank to reopen Mr Hs account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not going to ask Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Hs complaint. If Barclays hasnt paid Mr H the £400 it offered, it should 
do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman