DRN-3317362
The complaint
Mr L complains that Assetz SME Capital Limited has treated him unfairly when administering
his crowdfunding account. Hes unhappy with changes made to the withdrawal system,
which he says disadvantaged him compared to other lenders.
What happened
In October 2015, Mr L opened a crowdfunding account on Assetzs peer to peer (P2P)
lending platform. Assetz provided several types of sub accounts that gave customers
different ways of investing on the platform. Mr L invested in the access accounts Assetz
provided including the 30-day access account (30DAA). One of the features of this type of
account is when an investor makes a request to withdraw funds, there is a 30-day waiting 
period before access to the secondary market is allowed to complete the withdrawal. Mr L 
also had a quick access account (QAA), which didnt have a waiting period when requesting 
a withdrawal.
In March 2020, Assetz informed customers that due to the abnormal market conditions
caused by the global pandemic, it needed to initially pause withdrawal requests whilst a
review of the situation was carried out in order to put in place a queuing system. From 19
March, a queuing system was put in place that involved a flat distribution of funds. Assetz
explained the method divides the amount to be distributed equally amongst all lenders on a
per withdrawing account basis.
Mr L complained to Assetz about the changes being introduced. He said an option to
withdraw all had disappeared from the website when he viewed his account. He was also
unhappy about the terms of his contract being changed. He said the introduction of the
pooled queuing system favoured smaller investors over larger investors like himself. He said
he didnt accept the amended terms as they were unfair and unlawful.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021  I said I didnt intend on uphold the 
complaint. 
This is what I said:
Firstly, Ive looked at how the operation of his account was described to Mr L when he first
invested. Assetz has provided screen shots of how the access accounts were described.
These provide information about withdrawals when in normal market conditions but warns
these cant be guaranteed.
This information suggest that Mr L could expect to withdraw funds fairly quickly and not
expect to be in a queuing system. But the reference to normal market conditions is
important. Assetz has provided detail of the FAQ document that was held on its website that
provides a definition for normal market conditions. This says:
What is Assetz Capitals definition of normal market conditions?
Normal market conditions means conditions that are broadly what we have at the moment.
This means economic conditions are reasonably stable, lenders are making withdrawals
from the Quick Access Account (QAA) or 30-Day Access Account (30DAA), together known
as the Access Accounts, in the normal course of business and other lenders are willing and
able to buy their loan parts through that account and others that we offer. In addition, the
Access Accounts also hold a certain amount of cash liquid to help increase the liquidity of
withdrawal requests above and beyond normal market supply and demand. The result of the
Access Accounts operation and the normal market conditions we have enjoyed to date is
that every lender has had their withdrawal request carried out when they requested since the
accounts opened for investment.
Nonetheless past performance should not be taken as a guide to the future and abnormal
market conditions could conceivably change the speed of withdrawals. Abnormal market
conditions would be if there was a very large, sudden and extended demand to withdraw
cash from the Access Accounts. This might be caused by a global recession, an abrupt and
widespread loss of faith in peer-to-peer lending or any number of other situations. If, for a
sustained period, a significant number of lenders chose to withdraw their cash in significant
quantities and no (or few) new lenders were available to buy their loan parts, conditions
would at that point be abnormal and the Access Accounts would not be then able to maintain
their current speed of access for withdrawals.
Ultimately this could mean that lenders may have to wait until a buyer could be found for
their loans held within the Access Accounts, or until the loans were repaid over time by the
borrowers. The latter situation arises due to the loans within the Access Accounts having
monthly repayments being made by borrowers or by loans naturally reaching the end of their
term for full repayment. This repayment of loans should continue to create some capital,
which would be available for withdrawal by investors regardless of market conditions being
abnormal. This is the reason that we quote the in normal market conditions message
everywhere that we refer to Access Account withdrawal times; we cannot guarantee access
times in all possible economic scenarios and we want our lenders to understand that.
Assetz communicated to investors in March 2020 that normal market conditions ended. It
cited the excessive volatility on the financial markets as a result of the impact of the global
pandemic. And its analysis of the access accounts behaviour confirmed it was seeing
extreme activity around that time. It told customers in a March 2020 blog post that it had
seen an imbalance created on Thursday 12th March 2020 between withdrawals and
deposits that it had not seen before and couldnt allow that to continue without a positive
intervention. So initially suspended the withdrawal system operation for access accounts
before later introducing the flat distribution system.
Within his complaint submissions, Mr L appears to accept that in March 2020 - as a result of
the impact of the global pandemic - Assetz was unable to perform the services it did in
normal market conditions. Im satisfied that it has provided sufficient evidence to support its
assertion that normal market conditions ceased in March 2020  due to the impact of the
global pandemic. So, it follows that I think it was a reasonable decision for it to take action
and inform customers that that it wouldnt be able to operate accounts in the way it had
been.
The crux of Mr Ls complaint comes from his belief the actions Assetz took in March 2020 -
by putting in place a withdrawal system - favoured other investors over him. He feels that he
has been disadvantaged as a larger lender because of the flat distribution withdrawal
system. He says, relative to smaller investors, he was put at a serious disadvantage in that
withdrawals were all at the same level regardless of the level of investment. So, I have gone
on to consider the broader question of whether Assetz has treated Mr L unfairly in the way it
changed the withdrawal process. Assetz has relied on a section in its lender terms and
conditions to explain why it was able to make changes and introduce a new queuing systemfor withdrawals in March 2020. The relevant term is:
Section 20. Altered Circumstances and Changes to The Terms
1. If there is a change in circumstances or a change in the law, HM Revenue & Customs
practice or regulations or the interpretation of them, or if any Assetz Capital Company
wishes to make changes to the services which it provides on the Network or Website,
the Assetz Capital Companies may amend these Terms from time to time as they think fit.
2. Where a change to these Terms does not affect existing Micro Loans and does not
disadvantage existing Lending Members or where the changes are reasonably believed by
the Assetz Capital Companies to be in the interests of the Lending Members,
the Assetz Capital Companies may make any amendments to these Terms at any time with
immediate effect. Where it is necessary or desirable to make changes to these Terms which
affect existing Micro Loans or may disadvantage existing Lending Members,
the Assetz Capital Companies will endeavour to provide 30 days notice before any changes
take effect. Any such notice shall be posted on the Website.
3. Any amendments will be posted on the Website as soon as reasonably practicable. By
continuing to use the Website, by either logging in or leaving investments within Investment
Accounts or Access Accounts on a daily basis, each Lending Member agrees to be bound
by the amended Terms.
Assetz says the inclusion of this term allows it to make changes to the operation of accounts
customers. While I appreciate this is a broad term, it does support that Assetz may vary its
terms, but it still needed to consider the impact of any changes it makes on its customers.
Its not for me to decide whether this term is fair or not  that is something only a court can
decide. But as a regulated financial business Assetz is under an obligation to treat its
customers fairly. And the obligation I am under is to consider what is fair and reasonable in
all of the circumstances  which includes having consideration for the relevant law and
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice; and (where
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Ive review the terms Assetz has provided as applicable to when Mr L opened his account as
well as the terms in place both prior to and after the withdrawal system was introduced in
March 2020. Ive not seen that there is a specific term that covers the appropriation of the
secondary market or withdrawal system. So, I havent found that there is evidence to say
that Assetz altered the contract by introducing a withdrawal system. But it did make a
change to the way it operated the access accounts Mr L was invested in. There is a term
that relates to loan selections that I think has some relevance to the situation Im
considering. This explains:
Section 6. Loan Selection facilities
. The Assetz Capital Companies can remove, suspend or alter the terms of any Loan
Selection Facility at any time although this will not affect Micro Loans already acquired under
that facility.
While, this doesnt make specific reference to the withdrawal system, it does reference
Assetz ability to change or suspend the way in which loans are distributed. I believe there is
a link to between the loan selection facility and the ability to withdraw from loans.
Assetz updated this section of its terms by adding reference to it making amendments it
considered to be in the interests of lending members as a whole  it says:
 However, in doing so it will have regard to (a) the need to balance the speed with which
funds are invested and the level of diversification of a Lending Member's loans and (b) the
objective of achieving fairness between Lending Members who wish to make similar loans at
the same time. Details of the current policies on diversification and allocation processes maybe published on the Website but the Assetz Capital Companies may amend these from time
to time and can do so without notice if it is considered in the interests of Lending Members
as a whole to do so.
The withdrawal system Assetz introduce on the 19 March 2020 was a flat distribution of
funds. This meant that when funds became available for withdrawal the amount to be
distributed was equally divided amongst all lenders on a per withdrawing account basis. This
did lead to account holders with smaller amounts invested receiving the same level of
withdrawal as larger investors. But it did mean a larger number of account holders were
given access to funds.
Assetz says it was a difficult decision to introduce the queuing system, but the aim of the
decision was to ensure the largest number of lenders would have reasonable access to
some of their funds as soon as possible. Im conscious Assetz does need to balance the
needs of all of its lending members. So, I dont think it is a simple as a situation where one
group of customers has been favoured over another. Assetz does need to show that it has
treated customers fairly in its considerations of how to implement changes to the operation
of accounts. Im also conscious, if Assetz had allowed larger lenders to make full significant
withdrawals this would have negatively impacted smaller investors. Indeed, it says if it hadnt
introduced a withdrawal system and left a first in, first out approach a small number of large
withdrawals would have stopped withdrawals for the majority of lenders. Im satisfied it has
demonstrated why it didnt think it would be fair for the vast majority of its customers to allow
the withdrawals method to remain unchanged in light of the prevailing circumstances in
March 2020.
I note in June 2020  Assetz made a further change to the withdrawal process. This meant
as funds become available for withdrawal, they were allocated to an investors withdrawal
request on a pro-rata basis directly related to each investors total investment in that loan
they are withdrawing from, not the size of their withdrawal request. I can see why Mr L sees
this system as more favourable to the flat distribution. I acknowledge it provides a better way
of reflecting the amount he has invested when processing a withdrawal.
I have questioned Assetz why it didnt introduce this system straight away. It says when it
realised it needed to make changes to the withdrawals system in March 2020, it established
it would require significant work to develop a pro-rata system  and this would cause a
material delay to withdrawals. As it already had the coding to enable a flat distribution
system, it implemented this system first on a temporary basis until it could develop the code,
test and deploy the pro rata system. It says taking this approach was considered fairer to no
withdrawals at all or a handful of large withdrawals monopolising all funds available for
withdrawal for a prolonged period. Im satisfied Assetz has provide a reasonable explanation
for why it wasnt able to implement the pro-rata system when it first realised the impact the
pandemic was having on market conditions.
Having reviewed all of the evidence provided, I havent found that the changes Assetz made
in March 2020 to the access accounts amount to Mr L being treated unfairly. It has
demonstrated that during the period from March 2020 market conditions were abnormal 
leading to a justification to make changes. There is a balance to be drawn between the
needs of individual customers like Mr L and making decisions for the whole customer base.
So, I do understand why Mr L would have preferred Assetz to take different actions. But this
doesnt mean Assetz must have treated him unfairly by the temporary changes made to the
withdrawal system.
Assetz responded to the provisional decision and confirmed it didnt have any further 
comments to make.  Mr L didnt accept my provisional findings. In summary he said:
There was an inequity of flat level repayments between the middle of March and the 
beginning of June 2020 that meant larger investors were placed in a situation where he 
received disproportionate payments compared to smaller lenders.
He also made reference to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  specifically highlighting a 
section relating to variation clauses in contracts  that he believes is relevant to this 
complaint. The extract he highlighted covers issue to do with terms that create a significant 
imbalance in favour of businesses, clarity of contract and the unfairness of variation clauses 
that force the consumer to accept increased costs, new requirements or reduced benefits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent found reason to change the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision Ill explain why. 
Ive considered the further comments Mr L has made about why he feels the flat distribution 
withdrawal system Assetzs introduced disadvantaged him for the period (approximately 10 
weeks) between March and June 2020. At this time, Assetz had a responsibility to all its 
customers when attempting to deal with the impact the global pandemic was having on its 
P2P platform. Overall, I still dont think it would be fair to uphold Mr Ls complaint  Ill 
explain why. 
Firstly, Ive reviewed the points Mr L make in relation to the CRA. In December 2018, the 
financial services regulator, the FCA, published guidance that outlines the factors financial 
services firms should consider under the CRA when drafting and reviewing variation terms in 
their consumer contracts. This is relevant guidance when considering the fairness of any 
changes Assetz makes to its terms and conditions when relying on a variation clause. 
As explain in my provisional decision, Assetzs terms do contain a variation clause. But I also 
explained there isnt a specific term that indicates how the distribution of withdrawals from 
sales on the secondary market should occur. So, I cant say that Assetz made a contractual 
variation when it introduced the flat distribution system  but it did make a commercial 
decision to amend the operation if its access accounts. Ive also considered the wider 
regulatory principles that place responsibility upon Assetz - the most relevant here being that 
it must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
Mr L has raised concerns about there being an imbalance between the parties caused by the 
actions Assetz took. Understandably Mr L is considering the impact of the withdrawal system 
from his own position  in which he describes himself as a larger investor. But Im conscious 
that Assetz needed to make decision based on all of its customer base.  All investors who 
wanted to withdraw were in the same situation  in being reliant on others to generate 
available funds to withdraw. I dont think any individual investor has claim over another. So I 
dont find the withdrawal system put in place favoured or created an imbalance between 
Assetz and its customers  including Mr L. Assetz has also provided reason why it couldnt 
introduce the pro rata system immediately  which I find reasonable in the circumstances. I 
havent seen anything within the terms and conditions that suggest there was a contractual 
guarantee to withdraw funds early via the secondary market. So, I think its within the scope 
of Assetzs commercial judgment to decide how to allocate repayments.  Mr L has referred to unfairness being created where changes to terms and conditions 
through a variation clause forced consumers to accept increased costs, new requirements or 
reduced benefits. As explain above there was no guarantee of early withdrawal or anything 
specific in the terms that says how withdrawals would be processed. The withdrawal system 
introduced in March 2020 aimed to give customers access to funds early  which is what 
they were seeking. The ability to access funds was driven by new investors taking on loan 
parts and repayments coming in for existing loans. The market conditions at the time, 
impacted the above. So, in these circumstances, I dont find it unfair that Mr L had to wait to 
receive all of the withdrawals he requested. The withdrawal system Assetz that was put in 
place initially and later updated was fair in the situation where repayments were less than 
withdrawal requests. The initial flat distribution sought to split payments equally  which is 
fairer than a first come, first served approach, which would have skewed against many 
investors. And then a few months later adding a layer of proportionality to the amount 
invested was an equitable approach. So, I havent found that Assetzs actions created an 
unfairness towards Mr L - particularly as it needed to consider its customer base as a whole 
when making decision to help the operation of the platform cope with the impact caused by 
the pandemic.  
For the reason given in my provisional decision and those above, I dont find that Mr L has 
been treated unfairly in the circumstances, so I dont require Assetz to do anything further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman