DRN-4116058
The complaint
Ms K has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc acted irresponsibly when it provided her 
with a credit card in 2012. 
Background
Ms K applied for and received a credit card from Capital One in November 2012. The initial 
card limit was set to £200. Between 2014 and 2017, Capital One increased Ms Ks credit 
limit on four separate occasions providing her with a final limit of £3,300.
Ms K has said that none of these credit limits were affordable for her. She has explained that 
by 2020 her finances became unmanageable, and she had to enter a repayment plan with 
Capital One to try to repay the outstanding balance on her card. She feels that Capital One 
failed to properly review her circumstances both when it provided the card initially and over 
the course of each of the credit limit increases. She says had it done so, it wouldve realised 
the card wasnt affordable for her and wouldnt have provided her with access to the credit. 
Capital One initially said that Ms K had brought her complaint too late and that it was time 
barred as per the rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). However, since the 
complaint was escalated to this service Capital One has given its consent for us to 
investigate the complaint despite the timeline involved. 
It says that at the time of each credit application it ran full checks, including income and 
expenditure and credit file checks. It believes that based on the information available to it at 
the time the credit was affordable to Ms K and so it doesnt think it did anything wrong in 
providing her with the card or any of the subsequent credit limit increases. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ks complaint already. She found that, based on the 
limited evidence still available, the credit provided by Capital One was affordable to Ms K. 
This included all four credit limit increases. So she didnt uphold Ms Ks complaint as she 
didnt think Capital One had done anything wrong.
Ms K disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint, so its been passed to me for consideration. 
My Findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K has explained that over the course of time she had the credit card she became reliant 
on it for everyday expenses such as food and petrol. Shes also said that she missed 
multiple payments and that it was irresponsible for Capital One to provide her with credit limit 
increases when she was struggling to manage the card properly. 
Capital One has provided us with the information it still has on file detailing Ms Ks declared 
circumstances at the point of each credit limit increase. These were set out in detail by our 
investigator and so I wont reproduce them here as they are known to both parties. 
It does appear, based on the evidence provided by Capital One, that it checked basic 
information with Ms K each time her credit limit was increased. And from what it has 
provided to this service it doesnt seem as though Ms K was experiencing any financial 
problems at those times. Or, if she was, those problems werent yet apparent on her credit 
file. 
Unfortunately, Ms K has been unable to provide us with any evidence to support her 
argument that the credit limit increases were inappropriate. Normally we would review credit 
file information or bank statements that could demonstrate the problems that consumers 
may be having or highlight the fact that they were struggling to manage repayments. But due 
to the passage of time Ms K no longer has this information to hand and has confirmed shes 
unable to retrieve it. 
Therefore, I can only rely on the information provided by Capital One. All of which indicates 
that when the lending decisions were made, it did consider whether or not they were likely to 
be affordable, and based on what it saw, there was nothing to suggest Ms K would have 
problems managing her account. 
As Ive not seen anything that contradicts the evidence provided by Capital One I cant say 
that it was wrong to provide Ms K with the card or any of the credit limit increases that 
followed. And so, I cant uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint against Capital One (Europe) 
plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman