DRN-3680473
The complaint
Mr H complains that the Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) will not refund transactions he 
says he made as a result of falling victim to multiple scams.
Mr H is represented by CEL Solicitors in this matter.  Mr H has said that the bank account 
concerned is a joint account he holds with Mrs H.  For simplicity, in this decision, I will be 
referring to Mr H solely.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr H says he made several transactions from his Co-op joint account to what he 
believed was a legitimate investments trading company, which I will refer to as Company F 
in this decision.  Mr H also says he made several transactions from the same account to 
companies he believed would be able to recover the money he was scammed for by 
Company F.  In all instances, Mr H says he was manipulated into making these payments 
and lost all his money amounting to approximately £50,000.
Mr H raised this matter with the Co-op asking it to refund the money he said he lost.  As this 
did not happen, Mr H raised a complaint which he referred to this Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  Because Mr H did 
not accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than 
the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If there is a 
submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is simply 
because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint.
I have not seen any evidence to support an argument that the Co-op should have stopped 
Mr Hs transactions to Company F due to, for example, published regulatory warnings about 
them.
I do acknowledge that due to the amount of some of the transactions to Company F, it could 
be argued that they should have triggered on the Co-ops systems  prompting it to 
intervene and stop the payments being released.  However, in Mr Hs case, I am not 
persuaded that such an intervention would have made a difference.  That is, I take the view, 
on balance, that Mr H would have proceeded with the payments anyway  even if the Co-op 
had provided him with impactful scam warnings and spoke about the risk of fraud involved.
I will explain why I have reached this view below.
I have considered evidence which shows that Mr H had dealings with another investments 
trading company he says he believed to be legitimate.  I will refer to this company as 
Company E in this decision.  I can see that Mr H contacted the Co-op (and later our Service) 
about Company E  stating that they had scammed him between April and August 2020. 
Further evidence suggests that the Co-op spoke to Mr H via telephone several times about 
some of his payments to Company E.  During those calls, the Co-op, amongst other things, 
provided Mr H with warnings about investment scams and alerted him to the risk of fraud  
and only released his payments when he reassured the Co-op that all was well.  I have 
identified at least three calls where this happened in April, May and July 2020  all of which 
occurred prior to Mr Hs payments to Company F which started in September 2020.  
Therefore, despite the Co-ops interventions covering investment scams, he decided to 
make several significant payments to Company F anyway.
I acknowledge it could be argued that when Mr H had received the investment scam 
warnings, he had not yet discovered Company E were scammers, so had no reason to 
suspect anything was amiss.  However, the evidence before me suggests that Mr H 
continued making payments to Company F even after he had discovered Company E 
scammed him.  I say this because the evidence shows that Mr H raised his concerns about 
Company E with the Co-op in December 2020  but despite this, he continued making 
payments to Company F until May 2021.
I should also highlight an inconsistency in Mr Hs submissions.  In Mr Hs submissions to the 
Co-op through his representative, it is stated that he had a genuine investment with 
Company E whereby he lost a substantial amount of his money.  The submissions continue 
to state that Mr Hs dealings with Company F, is the first time he has been subject to such 
an awful scam.  However, in Mr Hs complaint form submitted to this Service, it is stated that 
Mr H had lost a substantial amount of money due to being scammed by Company E, which 
is the reason why he wanted to invest with Company F to try to recover the money he had 
lost with Company E.
Taking all the above points together, I am not satisfied that had the Co-op provided the 
relevant warnings regarding any of Mr Hs payments to Company F: this would have been 
sufficient to dissuaded him from making them.  I am also not persuaded that it would be fair 
for the Co-op to refund Mr H the payments he made to Company F. 
In terms of the recovery scams Mr H says he fell victim to, I do not find the transactions he 
made were so unusual or out-of-character that they should have triggered the Co-ops 
systems prompting it to intervene and speaking to him before releasing the payments.  Nor 
do I find any other reason the payments should have been stopped or refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman