DRN-2735507
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain that they were mis-sold a protection policy by Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax) in 2003. They say they were made to feel that they would not be able to 
secure their mortgage borrowing without agreeing to taking out a policy that they didnt need.    
What happened
Mr and Mrs Q took out their Total Mortgage Protection Plan in a Halifax branch alongside 
their mortgage lending in June 2003. At that time they had applied for a £60,000 mortgage 
over a 16 year term. The proposed policy provided a same sum assured of £60,000 and 
over the same term. It comprised joint life assurance and critical illness benefit along with 
mortgage repayment cover for Mr Q, in the event he was unable to work through injury, 
illness or involuntary unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs Q made two mid-term amendments to the policy, alongside re-mortgages. The 
policys sum assured for life cover and critical illness benefit was raised in April 2005. The 
value of critical illness cover was again increased in November 2006, at which time life 
assurance was removed for both Mr and Mrs Q. The policy was cancelled in August 2010.  
In 2019, Mrs Q initially contacted this service to explain that their policy had been mis-sold. 
Mrs Q explained that Mr Q had adequate provisions through his employment and they didnt 
want the cover  Halifax had forced them into taking it out.  
A case handler from this service assisted Mrs Q with making hers and Mr Qs complaint to 
Halifax. It then rejected the complaint. It said it had not been able to locate any evidence that 
would suggest its adviser made the policy a condition of taking out Mr and Mrs Qs 
mortgage. It was never compulsory or a condition of a Halifax mortgage to take out that type 
of cover. Mr and Mrs Q were free to decline the recommendation if theyd wished to.
Further, Halifax said that considering Mr and Mrs Qs circumstances at the time of the sale, 
they were eligible for the cover and it was satisfied that the policy was suitable for their 
needs. Halifax felt Mr and Mrs Q were provided with sufficient information to enable them to 
make an informed choice as to whether they should take out the policy. It did not believe 
theyd been treated unfairly, unduly pressured or that the policy was mis-sold.
Our investigator didnt consider that the policy has been mis-sold. He didnt see any 
evidence that Mr Qs alternative provisions offered the same cover as that proposed by the 
protection policy. Further, he felt that the policy provided valuable benefits for Mr and Mrs 
Qs family. 
However, he felt that Halifax ought to have recommended that Mr and Mrs Q take out a 
decreasing term policy. This was because they had a capital repayment mortgage and 
therefore a decreasing term policy could potentially have been slightly cheaper in terms of 
premiums (though he noted that Halifax had offered competitively priced level term policies 
and therefore the comparison may not result in any cost saving). He therefore believed the 
complaint ought to be upheld on that point.   
Halifax agreed with the investigators view. It couldnt have offered a decreasing policy at the 
time, but it undertook a market comparison for the three different premium prices that Mr and 
Mrs Q had paid during the life of the policy. In doing so, Mr and Mrs Q suffered a financial 
loss after the first mid-term amendment in 2005 until the second amendment in 2006. At that 
time they could have sourced cover cheaper on a decreasing term basis. It therefore agreed 
to return the difference in premiums to Mr and Mrs Q (of £68.18), with 8% interest until the 
date of settlement.  
Mrs Q said she and Mr Q disagreed and wanted the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. She said that in fact their mortgage had to be transferred to interest-only 
because they had financial difficulties and it was the mis-selling of policies such as these 
that led to those difficulties.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no reason to dispute Mr and Mrs Qs recollection, and I can see how they have 
explained theyve had particular financial difficulties over the years. However, whilst this 
evidence is something I take into account, I must also weigh up Halifaxs version of events 
as well as any other evidence such as contemporaneous documentation from the times of 
the sale. Where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded what I believe is most likely, 
on the balance of probabilities.
A number of documents havent been retained by Halifax because of the time since the 
cover was sold and cancelled, such as the welcome pack issued to Mr and Mrs Q. This is to 
expected as Halifax has acted in line with relevant data protection laws. However, there is 
some evidence that the adviser took specific details of Mr and Mrs Qs personal 
circumstances alongside the sale of their mortgage. On that basis, the adviser 
recommended they take out the combined protection policy matching their proposed lending.  
Notwithstanding the issue of the decreasing term (which I will address further below) I 
believe the policy was suitable to recommend in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs Q had 
dependants and there is no documentary evidence of any other provisions offering specified 
cover of this nature.  
Insurances such as life, unemployment and critical illness cover are a prudent step to take to 
provide security for a significant liability such as a mortgage. Further, Mr and Mrs Q were 
free to refuse the recommendation if they didnt want to pursue with it. They signed a 
declaration confirming they were happy with the advice theyd received  and there is no 
evidence Ive seen that suggests that the policy was a requirement of the lending. It follows 
that I do not believe the proposal for insurance of this nature was unreasonable. 
I note Mr and Mrs H have since cancelled the cover, but they had the benefit of the 
insurance until that point; so, they could reasonably have pursued a claim under the policy if 
required. As such, I dont agree that the policy premiums ought to be returned to them when 
those premiums paid for insurance that Halifax reasonably provided (and amended as 
required) during the term.
I agree with our investigator that (though the type of mortgage may have later changed to 
interest only for financial reasons) the best fit for a capital repayment mortgage liability is a 
decreasing term assurance policy, not a level term one. Decreasing term assurance is, on 
general grounds, often cheaper than level term assurance. It is the most appropriate 
recommendation for applicants with capital repayment mortgages because as the amount outstanding on the lending decreases, so does the cover on the policy meaning the 
policyholders are not paying for extra cover they dont need beyond their documented 
mortgage liability. 
However, Halifax did not offer decreasing term options at that time for Total Mortgage 
Protection Plans. Nonetheless, it should have made that clear to Mr and Mrs Q in 2003, so 
they could make an informed choice about whether to proceed or take out cover elsewhere, 
if they had required. On that basis, Halifax has rightly proposed a premium comparison and 
offered compensation for the points at which the premium would have cost less, with 
interest. That is the correct redress in the circumstances.    
Putting things right
I direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to compare the difference in premiums paid 
by Mr and Mrs Q for their protection policy, from its inception in 2003 until it was cancelled in 
2010, to a comparative joint decreasing term policy offering the same level of benefits at the 
material times accounting for the mid-term amendments to the policy.  
Where Mr and Mrs Q would have paid a cheaper monthly premium, Halifax must calculate 
the total of these premiums and refund this sum to Mr and Mrs Q, if they accept the decision.    
Interest should be added at gross rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the premiums 
were paid, to the date of settlement.
If Halifax considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest paid, it should 
issue a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mrs and Mr Q may be able to reclaim the 
tax paid from HM Revenue and Customs, if applicable. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Whilst I believe the adviser made a suitable recommendation to Mrs 
and Mr Q in their particular circumstances to take out the policy, they ought to have been 
made aware of the level nature of the cover, and because of this they were deprived of the 
opportunity to seek decreasing term cover elsewhere if required. On that basis, Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax must therefore to pay the redress Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q and Mr Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman