DRN-1851259
 
The complaint
Ms G complains that Interactive Brokers (UK) Limited told her in three phone conversations 
that it would not charge a monthly dealing fee as long as she made at least one trade a 
month. Despite this, it did so and sold one of her shares to pay for the fee.
What happened
Interactive said the terms and conditions made clear that monthly fees would be charged on 
accounts below a certain sum after the first three months - and that it had been entitled to 
charge the $18 fee. But it agreed to refund this sum and reinstate the sold share. This would 
put her back into the position shed now be in if no fees had been charged. It would then put 
her account into 'liquidation' status meaning she would not be subject to further fees.
An investigator said he was satisfied that Interactive had already fully compensated Ms G for 
the one fee she had been charged and that she had suffered no other loss. He noted that it 
offered an execution-only service and Ms G was responsible for checking the terms and 
conditions which clearly spelt out the fee structure. That said, he acknowledged the strength 
of Ms Gs evidence that she had been repeatedly told no fees would be applied if a single 
trade occurred in a given month. Further, he noted that Interactive admitted a call handler 
had misled her on at least one occasion and that it had been unable to provide copies of the 
other phone calls.
Given this, he felt it should also pay her £100 in lieu of this misleading information and the 
trouble and upset this had caused. 
Ms G did not accept this, saying:
She would never have opened an account if she had been told shed be charged a 
monthly fee after the first three months
She was wilfully misled into investing $452 with it
Contrary to the investigators summary, she did not ask Interactive to refund the $18 
fee or reinstate the share in question
Instead, she asked it to close her account and refund the $452 and pay an additional 
$500 in lieu of its reckless, misleading and unprofessional behaviour
 Interactive subsequently said it had now checked the two other calls and there had been no 
mention of fees in these conversations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.Our job is to ensure that where a business has made a mistake or done something wrong it 
puts that right by putting a client back in the financial position theyd now be in but for that 
mistake.  I am satisfied that Interactive has done that by refunding the fee, reinstating the 
sold share and putting Ms Gs account into liquidation mode so she is not liable for any 
further fees. It is now up to her to close her account to access her funds.
To clarify, it is not our role to punish or fine a business for its mistakes but solely to 
compensate an individual customer for any financial loss and potential upset and 
inconvenience caused by a business error.
In this context I am satisfied that £100 is a fair and reasonable sum in lieu of the trouble and 
upset this issue caused, and that such an amount is in line with the amount this service 
expects a business to pay in circumstances like these. As Interactive did not offer this sum 
before Ms G brought her complaint to this service, this means I am upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
Interactive must pay £100.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Interactive Brokers (UK) Limited to pay Ms G £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman