DRN-2507583
The complaint
Mr M complains about ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED trading as Autonet 
Insurance Services (Autonet) and the information they provided him when he bought his 
insurance policy. Hes unhappy how this lack of information impacted his experience when 
his car broke down.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr M purchased a car insurance policy through Autonet, who were acting as a 
broker. The policy was underwritten by a separate company, who Ill refer to as P.
On 28 December, Mr M was involved in a road traffic accident when his car collided with a 
deer. He contacted the number provided in the claim section of his insurance documents to 
arrange recovery of his car. Mr M assumed he was speaking to Autonet, who he purchased 
the insurance through. But Mr M spoke to a third-party claims company, who ill refer to as 
K.
K were unable to arrange recovery of Mr Ms car, and he ended up arranging recovery 
himself. Mr M was unhappy with this, and the upset it caused him and his family at the time. 
So, he raised a complaint.
Mr M complained about the information Autonet provided him at the time he bought the 
insurance policy. He didnt think it was made clear that Autonet used K to handle claims 
raised on the policy. And as he was unhappy with how K had handled his claim when he 
needed his car to be recovered, he thought Autonet should be responsible for this. So, he 
wanted Autonet to compensate him for the distress and upset he and his family were caused 
initially when they were stranded at the roadside and the difficulties he faced when speaking 
to K and Autonet in the following weeks.
Autonet didnt agree. They explained K was a separate third-party and that any issues with 
the service they provided were not Autonets responsibility. And they thought the terms and 
conditions of the policy Mr M bought explained clearly Ks involvement in the claims process. 
As Mr M agreed to these terms and conditions when purchasing the policy, Autonet didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr 
M remained unhappy with this, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it initially. He thought K were acting as 
an agent of Autonet and so thought they should be held responsible for the errors K made. 
But he didnt think Autonet had done anything wrong by using K to manage claims made on 
the insurance policy and thought theyd made it clear in the policy documents. So, he 
recommended Autonet pay Mr M £125 to recognise the upset hed been caused. This was 
on top of the £75 offer K made themselves directly.
Autonet didnt agree. They explained K were regulated as a separate company and because 
of this they didnt think they should be held responsible for their actions. And Mr M didnt 
think the offer was enough to recognise the upset both he and his family had been caused.
Our investigator took these points into consideration and decided they changed his mind. He 
thought K were regulated separately and because of this, he didnt think it was fair to hold 
Autonet responsible for Ks errors. So, he didnt think they needed to pay the £125 he 
originally recommended and felt they didnt need to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He was unhappy that the investigator had changed his mind and didnt 
think it was fair to do so. He maintained his belief that Autonet hadnt made him aware of Ks 
involvement in the claim making process. And he thought as Autonet decided to use K for 
this, he felt Autonet should be held responsible for the problems he faced. So, he felt 
Autonet should compensate him for this. As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been distressing for both Mr M and his family when he collided with a deer in 
December 2019. And I can appreciate how worrying it wouldve been for them to be stuck at 
the roadside given the likely weather conditions at the time. 
When Mr M called the number provided in his policy documents, I dont doubt he thought he 
was calling Autonet. And Im aware at the time, Mr M was in a vulnerable situation and was 
seeking immediate assistance. This assistance didnt materialise, and it left Mr M and his 
family arranging their own recovery. So, I can appreciate why Mr M would be left angry and 
upset as he wouldve been left feeling let down by Autonet.
But for me to say Autonet had done something wrong, Id need to see that it was their error 
that led to Mr M needing to seek his own recovery. Or that when Mr M bought the policy, 
Autonet didnt make it reasonably clear that a separate company, K, would handle any 
claims initially. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first considered the information Autonet provided to Mr K when he purchased the 
insurance policy. Mr M says Autonet didnt make him aware of Ks involvement and that if 
they had, he wouldnt have purchased the policy.
But Im aware Mr M purchased the policy online. And in order to do so, Mr M had to agree 
the terms and conditions of that policy. Ive looked at these as they explain that All claims 
enquiries are handled by {K} as well as explaining that {Autonet} is an intermediary and we 
will act on your behalf when arranging and administering your insurance before going onto 
explain that the details of Mr Ms insurer are provided further on in the document.
So, Im satisfied that Autonets involvement was purely as a broker for the policy. And I think 
they made it reasonably clear that any claims Mr M attempted to make on his policy would 
be handled by K. I think Mr M agreed to this when he purchased the policy through Autonet, 
so I cant say that Autonet mis-sold it in any way.
And as Autonet were acting solely as a broker, and K are a separately regulated company, I 
dont think it would be fair for me to hold Autonet responsible for the actions of K. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, especially as the initial outcome we 
provided said otherwise. 
But its important to note that its standard industry practice for insurers to use a claims 
company such as K to handle claims made on an insurance policy. And in these situations, 
the service provided by the claims company, and any failings they make, would be the 
responsibility of the claims company to rectify. So, I cant say Autonet acted unfairly by 
brokering a policy underwritten by an insurer that decided to handle claims against their 
policy in that way. And because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. And I can understand why Mr M 
feels as though Autonet arent being held to account for the distress he suffered. But I hope 
this decision goes some way to explaining the role of Autonet and why it wouldnt be fair to 
hold them responsible for the failings of another entirely separate company.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about ATLANTA 1 
INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED trading as Autonet Insurance Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman