DRN-3023383
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, has complained about C.C. Flint and Company 
Limiteds (Flint) service in connection with Ps fleet insurance policy.
What happened
P is a transport/travel company which operates a fleet of vehicles. Flint is an insurance 
broker and intermediary. P engaged Flint to source a suitable fleet policy for it and to act as 
its agent in dealing with the policys underwriter (the insurer), which is a separate business to 
Flint.
P was unhappy with Flints role in that process. By the time that the policy was due to renew 
in 2021 the insurer said that P owed in excess of £40,000 in unpaid premium. P didn't think 
that was fair and complained to Flint. Amongst other things P said Flint had been unhelpful 
and unprofessional and hadnt given P a breakdown of the premium charges the insurer was 
asking for. 
P brought its complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didnt think Flint 
needed to take any further action. P didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
In bringing this complaint P has raised a number of points about the service Flint has 
provided. Ive considered everything it told us and everything on file carefully. But in this 
decision I dont intend to address each individual point raised and instead will focus on what 
I see as being the key issues at the heart of Ps complaint.
As I've said above, Flint is an insurance broker and intermediary; so it helps to arrange 
policies and assists P with its administration. But it doesn't provide the cover itself, which is 
offered by the insurer. Flint doesn't act as agent for the insurer but instead represents P. 
The insurer offers the policy on the basis of a premium for the entire fleet on an annual 
basis. P paid for the policy by monthly instalments to a finance provider, which is also a 
separate entity to both Flint and the insurer. 
P can add or remove vehicles from the policy, permanently or temporarily, by informing Flint. 
Flint would then make any necessary changes to the motor insurers database, which is the 
central record of all vehicles insured in the UK. P would also need to complete any other 
required tasks such as declaring vehicles off road (known as SORN). And when it did that 
the insurer could reduce the cover, and the premiums for those vehicles so that they were 
only covered on a fire or theft basis while off the road (known as laid up fire and theft or 
LUFT cover).
On a three-monthly basis, Flint would put any vehicle amendments to the policy for that 
period into a declaration form (known as the quarterly declaration) and send it to P to review 
and to make any changes necessary. Flint would then send it to the insurer. The insurer 
would then calculate whether any additional premium was required, or if there was a refund 
owing to P, for the period the declaration covered. Flint would then relay any enquiries the 
insurer might have to P and vice versa. 
P policy began in February 2020, shortly before the pandemic took full effect. The first 
quarterly declaration fell due in May 2020. Flint submitted the declaration on Ps behalf to the 
insurer promptly. During the first quarterly period P had taken many vehicles from its fleet off 
the road and as such could anticipate receiving a significant reduction in its premium. In fact 
the insurer eventually calculated that a refund of over £61,300 was due. But it wasnt until 
August 2020 that the finance provider credited that sum to Ps account. I can understand 
that this delay must have been frustrating for P at a time when many businesses were under 
significant pressure because of the pandemic. But I dont think P was in a worse position 
because of the delay in sorting out the refund. 
As I've said above Flint submitted the quarterly declaration to the insurer in a timely fashion. 
The insurer replied with some questions which P and Flint answered on 27 May 2020. I've 
seen that Flint then chased the insurer for updates on several occasions before the insurer 
calculated the credit owing as being in the region of £61,000 on 29 June 2020. I'm aware the 
finance company didnt confirm that this sum had been credited to Ps account until 
24 August 2020. 
But P was always required to make its May 2020 instalment payment, regardless of the fact 
that the quarterly declaration fell due that month. And Flint submitted the quarterly 
declaration in good time. It then also chased the insurer for its recalculation of the premium 
and refund due. I dont think any delay by the insurer is Flints responsibility. But, before the 
insurer had calculated the refund owing, Flint negotiated directly with the finance provider P 
was paying the premium instalments to and secured reduced instalment payments from 
June onwards in anticipation of the insurer calculating a refund. So, while there might have 
been delays by the insurer in calculating the premium and also in this being reflected in the 
finance providers accounts, as Flint had negotiated an early reduction in the instalment 
payments, P wasnt out of pocket because of that. So I don't think any delays here had a 
material impact on P. 
Ps also said that there were numerous errors that Flint didnt identify. As I've said above it 
was the insurers role and not Flints to calculate the premium. And I've seen that Flint did 
manage to resolve a number of Ps queries with the insurer. 
Ive also noted that P seems to have misunderstood how the policy worked. That's because, 
in its exchanges with us, it became clear that P thought the insurer calculated the premiums 
owing on a percentage basis dependent on when changes to the policy were made. But 
that's not right. And the insurer confirmed that, where it made amendments to the premium it 
did so on a pro rata basis, as set out in the policys terms and conditions. So it seems likely 
that P might have had a skewed expectation of what the premium calculations were likely to 
be because of that misunderstanding of how the premiums were calculated. But, as Ive said 
above, I've seen that Flint did put Ps queries to the insurer when those arose.Further I'm aware that P didnt feel that Flint had done enough to explain the premium 
calculations to it. But, Ill repeat that Flint didnt calculate the premium, the insurer did. So it 
was the insurer and not Flint that was responsible both for calculating the premium and for 
any explanation that was required about those calculations. And, as I've already said, Flint 
put any enquiries P had about those calculations directly to the insurer and fed back its 
replies. It also provided a schedule of each quarterly declaration and the breakdown of 
charges arising from that. I don't think it was Flints responsibility to do more than that.
Similarly, it seems that P had an expectation that Flint would take responsibility for checking 
the entries on the quarterly declarations to ensure their accuracy and also for examining the 
insurers premium calculations. But Flint has told us that wasnt a service it offered. It said 
that responsibility for the accuracy of the entries on the quarterly declaration, as set out in 
the policy wording, rested with P and not it. 
Further, it seems that P wants more detail concerning premium calculations and expected 
Flint to provide a detailed breakdown of each vehicle charge on the policy. But given that 
Flint doesn't calculate the premium, its not Flints responsibility to provide a breakdown of 
the premium calculations. But Ive seen that the insurer has told Flint that it is happy to 
engage with P to bring the matter to a close. And Flint would be happy to pass on any 
enquiries P might have to the insurer. But Flint wouldnt be responsible for the insurers 
reply. And if P has a complaint about any of the insurers actions it should ask Flint to direct 
such a complaint to the insurer. 
Ive seen that the insurer has said that P owes it a significant sum of money in unpaid 
premium, which P thinks might not be accurate. But it appears that this sum is most likely 
outstanding because P removed a large number of vehicles from cover in the third quarter 
but added those back in the fourth quarter. So the premiums for those vehicles fell due at the 
end of the fourth quarter. And any dispute P has about the extent of the premium owing 
would be the responsibility of the insurer and not Flint.
I'm aware that P believes that Flint has been unprofessional and unhelpful. It might be that 
some of Ps concerns have arisen because its expectation about the service it wanted Flint 
to provide and the actual level of service were different. That might be because P has 
compared Flints service to that of other brokers it has used in the past and assumed that 
Flint would provide a similar level of service. Flint has told us that it didnt give P an 
undertaking to do the things that P thought it should be doing, such as checking the 
accuracy of quarterly declarations. So I dont think it would be fair to say that Flint has acted 
unprofessionally or unhelpfully because it didn't take actions it hadnt ever agreed to take. 
Further, Flints said that as a goodwill gesture it waived some of its charges amounting to 
around £370. Ps said that Flint had agreed not to charge those fees at the outset but Flint 
disputes this. And I note that the terms of business agreement that it sent to P said it would 
charge P for its services. So I think it's likely that it could have charged those had it wished 
to. But, its chosen not to do so, and I think that's a reasonable response to the complaint in 
the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I'm not going to instruct Flint to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 Joe Scott
Ombudsman