DRN-3136842
The complaint
Ms G complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined a claim 
under her home insurance.
Ms G bought her policy through an insurance intermediary and most of her correspondence 
has been with this intermediary rather than directly with Lloyds. For the avoidance of doubt, 
any reference to Lloyds includes its agents, including the intermediary.
What happened
Ms G had a home insurance policy, underwritten by Lloyds. In February 2021, following 
several days of bad weather, her tenants told her there was damage to the conservatory roof 
of her tenanted property. Ms G made a claim on her home insurance. 
Lloyds appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyors report said: 
The structure shows extensive age-related damage, and failures in maintenance, 
the presence of dirt and grime within the polycarbonate sheets also suggests long 
standing wind/rain penetration into the sheets which supports age related, wear and 
tear, type damage. 
The report concluded that the damage was the result of wear and tear having occurred 
gradually over time. Damage caused by wear and tear isnt covered by Ms Gs policy, so 
Lloyds declined her claim. 
Ms G was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She told us her 
tenants hadnt told her there was anything wrong with the roof before the bad weather. Shes 
also unhappy with Lloyds handling of her claim. Shed like it to settle her claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ms Gs complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the damage to the roof wasnt covered by Ms Gs policy, so he didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim. He agreed with Ms G that Lloyds service had 
been poor, but he thought its offer of £125 to apologise for this was fair.
Ms G disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most polices, Ms Gs cover only makes Lloyds liable for damage caused by one of the 
insured events listed in her policy. 
Ms Gs policy booklet shows shes covered for loss or damage caused by a storm. The 
policy booklet defines a storm as: A period of violent weather defined as strong winds with 
gusts of at least 55mph, and/or hail or snow of such intensity or weight that it causes 
damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
However, Ms Gs policy doesnt cover her for damage caused by wear and tear. Her policy 
booklet says: A storm can highlight damage rather than cause it and damage that happens 
gradually through wear and tear or due to lack of maintenance is not covered. This is 
common in home insurance policies and I dont think its unreasonable.
As our investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, there are 
three questions we ask: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
Ive studied the local weather records for the area. I think these records show very bad 
weather, however neither the wind speeds nor rainfall in February 2021 met the policy 
definition of a storm. Ive also checked the Met Offices website and its information for the 
2020/21 storm season. This shows that the UK experienced a week of severe winter 
weather from 7 to 13 February 2021 (Storm Darcy). This affected the area where Ms Gs 
property was located. So Ive no doubt that there was severe bad weather at the time Ms Gs 
roof was damaged.
However, its the third question that is key here.
Lloyds surveyor inspected the damage to Ms Gs conservatory roof. Ive read the surveyors 
report and I think its comprehensive. It noted the following damage:
The centre polycarbonate sheets are completely loose and can be pushed up 
150mm or more.
Failed window gaskets.
Age-deteriorated trim.
Plaster failure along the walls.
Dirt and grime between the polycarbonate sheets.
Evidence of a previous repair with black plastic.
The report included more than a dozen annotated photos. Im satisfied that the photos 
suggest long-standing damage rather than one-off damage caused by a storm. Lloyds 
internal record of a call with Ms G on 10 February 2021 notes that the roof was about 20 
years old and, while cleaned regularly, hadnt had any maintenance on it in that time.
So I think the surveyors conclusion that the roof was already in a poor state of repair before 
February 2021 is reasonable. It follows that I dont think the bad weather  whether it met the 
policy definition of a storm or not  was the main cause of the damage.
I accept Ms G didnt know about the damage because her tenants hadnt told her about it. 
But, as our investigator explained, Ms Gs tenants failure to tell her about the roofs 
condition isnt something that Lloyds can be held responsible for. Ive no reason to doubt that 
Ms G would have fixed this if shed been told about it but Im afraid this doesnt change my 
findings. Ms Gs claim doesnt meet our three tests and I think Lloyds decision to decline her 
claim was reasonable. 
Lloyds has accepted that its service to Ms G was poor. I agree. In think its communications 
to her about her claim were confusing. However, I think its offer of £125 to apologise for this is fair. If Lloyds hasnt done so already, it should pay this to Ms G. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman