DRN-3203676
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the service he received from Tymit Ltd, in particular the delays 
adding a payment to his account and in deleting sensitive information.
What happened
The facts havent been disputed. Mr B was invited to join the Tymit Booster service and he 
decided to try it out by depositing a pound before adding more to the account.
Mr B used the correct payment details but the money wasnt allocated to his account after he 
paid it. Mr B had to contact customer support and wait a number of days for it to be sorted. 
Mr B wasnt informed when the money reached his account and had to contact Tymit again 
to check it had been allocated successfully.
Mr B was asked via the online chat function to send proof of the payment and that it had
been sent using the correct details. He attempted to send screenshots of the transaction but, 
as the chat function wasnt operating as intended, he was unable to preview the images he 
was sending. Because of this he sent sensitive information regarding a family members 
bank account in error. He asked for this information to be deleted but has received no 
confirmation from Tymit that this was done.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She recommended that Tymit pay Mr B £75 in 
compensation and confirm that it had deleted the sensitive image. 
Mr B accepted the recommendation but despite allowing more time, Tymit didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts havent been disputed so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Tymit acknowledged that Mr B was one of the first Booster service customers and 
that it should have run more smoothly. In the final response to Mr B it said that the 
deposit acknowledgment should have been instantaneous. Im satisfied that if it had 
been, Mr B wouldnt have had to contact Tymit to find out what was happening.
Tymit also said that for the first few customers the payment required a manual review 
 but Mr B wasnt advised this when he registered. So although the payment was 
credited to his account within two working days, this wasnt what he had been led to 
believe regarding timescales. He also wasnt advised that hed need to send proof of 
payment in order for the payment to be allocated. I accept that Mr B had to repeat his 
query to different staff members in order to get any answers as to what had 
happened. I find that Mr B was inconvenienced as he spent time checking his 
account and contacting Tymit to find out what was happening. 
An issue with the in-app chat function meant Mr B couldnt review the image he sent 
to Tymit before sending. When he realised hed sent an image of a family members 
bank details he asked Tymit to delete it. Tymit acknowledged the issue but havent 
confirmed that they will delete the image. I accept that this has caused Mr B 
frustration and anxiety. 
Im satisfied that Mr B has received poor service which has caused inconvenience 
and frustration.  I find that compensation is merited and that £75 is fair in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I require Tymit Ltd to:
Pay Mr B £75 in compensation
Delete the image containing bank details of Mr Bs family member sent on 19 
February 2021 and confirm to Mr B that this has been done
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman