DRN-3178148
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited is holding it responsible for 
chargebacks for card payments and didnt do enough to protect it from fraud.
What happened
A says that during August 2020 two individuals were ordering goods from it and making 
payments by card over the phone. These individuals would arrange for a delivery driver to 
collect the goods. A found out that the card information used was stolen when it was told 
about multiple chargebacks. It is a small company and has lost the goods and WorldPay is 
demanding it pay back all the money. A had called WorldPay during August and wasnt told 
about the fraud until it was too late. It had all the receipts, invoices, CCTV footage of the 
goods being collected, contact numbers and a police crime reference number.
WorldPay said it wouldnt be changing its position. It said that it had dealt with the 
chargebacks under the rules of the relevant card scheme. And that its terms and conditions 
and customer operating instructions set out the risks of cardholder not present (CNP) 
transactions. Here as goods were collected there was no defence to the chargebacks. And it 
said that getting a match of data when the payment is processed, or an authorisation code 
doesnt guarantee payment. There are up to 120 days for a chargeback to be raised. And it 
explained that for some of the transactions the code with less than the required six digits and 
followed by K meant that this was keyed by the merchant and it had input a code that 
wasnt issued by WorldPay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that it was right that 
the chargeback was dealt with under the rules of the relevant card scheme. And it was up to 
A to provide compelling evidence that the genuine cardholders participated in the 
transaction. But this did seem to be accepted as a pattern of fraud against A. And so, A 
wouldnt be able to show that the cardholders had participated. He didnt agree with A that 
WorldPay was responsible for due diligence on the payments. Although A said it never 
received a copy of the agreement he had seen the application form dated April 2014 and it 
was reasonable to expect A as a limited company to have reviewed this and any related 
terms. He didnt think that WorldPay should be held responsible for the losses of A here.
A didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed and everything looked at again. It 
didnt think that WorldPay had done enough to protect it from fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the payments here in dispute number nearly 70, using 30 different cards 
and totalling over £118,000. It did seem that As business involved supplying relatively high 
value individual items. WorldPay accepts that A has been the subject to a targeted fraud and 
although it initially said it was terminating the agreement, it offered to reinstate it. But clearly 
there are significant liabilities and I appreciate what A says about the impact for it as a small 
business.
I agree that A was fairly bound by the terms and conditions of the agreement with WorldPay. 
It had been using WorldPays services for some time. The broad principles WorldPay applied 
here based on those terms and the operating instructions are industry wide ones. And as 
has been said chargebacks are determined in line with the relevant scheme rules by the 
issuer.
Im afraid I do think it was down to A to determine who it was doing business with. And 
especially as it knew how these payments were being originated. Its referred to speaking 
with WorldPay in August about the payments. And being told that it could take individual 
payments like this up to £100,000 and that no issues were brought to its attention. I wouldnt 
have expected WorldPay to be able to say more about each payment other than it was 
authorised when processed. That didnt mean its guaranteed but that it had been accepted 
and that the card involved wasnt for example blocked. I cant resolve how the short codes 
were attached to some transactions, but it does appear that these were keyed locally. And 
even if these had been authorised with a code the same general points would apply about 
that authorisation.
I appreciate that its easier to understand with hindsight what was happening but not at the 
time of the payments despite some suspicions. But I also think that this applies to the 
position at WorldPay. Clearly these payments hadnt triggered any warning. And as I said 
these were across multiple cards. There was a period for chargebacks to be raised allowing 
time for a cardholder to notice a disputed payment. WorldPay reported the first of these in 
the usual way by letter on 17 August 2020. But things then moved on quickly and by 21 
August 2020 it had identified the concerns about the account.
Im clear that A bore responsibility for the outcome of chargebacks under the terms of its 
agreement with WorldPay. Specifically, WorldPay has referred to Section 6 that I note sets 
out that each chargeback is a debt immediately payable (6.1) and that it was up to A to 
provide a defence for any chargeback under the relevant scheme rules (6.4). Id expect 
WorldPay to defend chargebacks if it could. But here A didnt have evidence of having the 
genuine card, or a PIN being keyed or confirmed signature taken. And it couldnt show that 
goods had been delivered to the genuine card holders addresses. Unfortunately, I also 
agree with our investigator that as it is accepted these payments were fraudulent then there 
was never a prospect of defending them through chargeback on the basis that they werent.
A has been the victim here of a clever fraud. For the reasons Ive set out I dont consider that 
WorldPay is responsible for reimbursing A for its losses. And Im not persuaded that it should 
have done more to alert A to the position. I know that this will be a great disappointment for 
the representative of A who brings this complaint given the amount at stake.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman