DRN-4468188
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain TSB Bank plc refused to make a transaction from their account.
 
As it was Mr W making the transaction and the complaint, Ive referred mostly to him. 
What happened
Mr W went to a branch of TSB in February 2023 and asked to withdraw £15,000 in cash. 
The branch asked Mr W some questions about the purpose of the transaction and also 
whether he could provide an invoice or evidence of the purchase he was intending to make. 
Mr W was unhappy with this questioning and didnt have any further evidence of the 
purchase he could provide so left the branch. 
Mr W later attempted to transfer £20,000 using his online banking to another account in his 
name, so he could withdraw the cash elsewhere. TSB blocked this transaction and asked Mr 
W to get in touch with the bank, which he did. Again, TSB asked Mr W for more information 
about the purchase he said he was trying to make but Mr W didnt want to provide this so the 
transaction remained blocked and Mr Ws online banking was also blocked. He was told hed 
need to visit a branch to have the block removed. 
Mr W didnt want to do this so he tried to arrange to switch his account to another bank. But 
says this was also blocked by TSB. 
Mr W complained to TSB, saying he was unhappy theyd denied him access to his own 
money and theyd involved the Police unnecessarily, since he hadnt done anything wrong. 
TSB responded to Mr Ws complaint. They said they had followed their process correctly, so 
they didnt think theyd made a mistake by refusing Mr Ws transaction or by initiating the 
Banking Protocol and contacting the Police. Mr W wasnt happy with this response. He 
referred the complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered what had happened. He said, in summary, he didnt think TSB 
had acted unfairly by refusing to carry out the initial cash withdrawal, or later block the online 
payment and online banking service.
 
Mr W didnt agree. He felt strongly the bank had no right to have refused any of the 
transactions he tried to make  because it was his money and, he said, it shouldve been 
obvious to those in the branch that he and Mrs W were not vulnerable and were more than 
capable of spotting a scam. And that they had intimated hed done something illegal by 
involving the Police.
As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision. My findings are set out again below and form part of this decision. 
Provisional Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr W is unhappy TSB refused to allow his cash withdrawal of £15,000.
The terms and conditions of the account set out the circumstances in which TSB can refuse 
to carry out an instruction from their customer. This includes where TSB have concerns that 
the transaction might be fraudulent or to protect their customer or themselves from a crime. 
TSB have provided a copy of their internal guidance to staff about large cash withdrawals. 
Based on what Mr W has told us about the questions he was asked, Im satisfied TSB were 
following the correct process when asking Mr W about the circumstances of his withdrawal 
and in particular the purpose of it and whether he had an invoice or paperwork for the 
purchase he said he was planning to make. 
Sadly, scams are very common and often involve people being asked to go to branch and 
withdraw large amounts of cash, in particular for a purchase of the type Mr W was making. 
Its also not unusual for customers to be told by the scammers not to tell bank staff what the 
money is for  as part of the scam itself  so I dont think TSB were being unfair or 
unreasonable in questioning Mr W about his payment or then being concerned that he was 
reluctant to provide information about what the money was for. 
I do understand Mr Ws strength of feeling about being questioned on what he intended to 
use his own money for. And we know now the transaction was genuine and Mr W wasnt 
being scammed. But, at the time, based on what TSB branch staff knew about the 
transaction, I dont think it was unreasonable that they had concerns given the amount 
involved, that it wouldve been quite an unusual transaction compared to Mr and Mrs Ws 
usual account activity and that Mr W was unable to provide any documentary evidence 
related to the purchase. 
Because TSB refused to allow the cash withdrawal in branch, Mr W attempted to move 
£20,000 to another bank account in his name using his online banking. So he could make 
the onward payment from there. 
This transaction was blocked by TSBs fraud prevention measures and Mr W was asked to 
call the bank, which he did. Ive listened to this call. Mr W did not want to tell TSB what the 
payment was for and TSB explained that if he didnt want to share that information, they 
wouldnt allow the payment to go through and the blocks would remain on his internet 
banking. This call continued for over half an hour during which TSB explained to Mr W the 
questions they were asking were to protect him and check the payment wasnt being made 
as part of a scam. 
Im satisfied TSB were following their own process by asking Mr W about this transaction. 
Mr W refused to answer most of TSBs questions and that was Mr Ws choice. Its also very 
common in scams for people to be asked to transfer large sums of money online to other 
accounts in their own name before transferring them on elsewhere and, as with branch 
transactions, scammers often tell customers not to tell bank staff what the transaction is for. 
So again, I dont think it was unreasonable for TSB to ask more questions in relation to this 
transaction. And, as Mr W was reluctant to share information, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for them again to be concerned by this. At the end of the call, Mr W was told 
hed need to go to branch to have the block removed but he said he was unwilling to do so, 
as hed done nothing wrong. 
As the transfer was stopped and he couldnt get the internet banking block removed over the 
phone, Mr W decided to switch the account to another bank. He says this was unsuccessful 
because of the block on the account. But TSBs records show the account switch was 
initiated on 10 February 2023 and the balance of the TSB account was transferred on 20 February 2023  so within seven working days. So I havent seen anything, beyond 
Mr Ws assertion, that TSB delayed or prevented the account switch.
Mr W insists that it was he, not TSB, that involved the Police in the end. I can see from 
TSBs notes that they initiated the Banking Protocol following a call that took place on 
18 February 2023. They told Mr W the Police would be in touch with him within 72 hours. It 
seems Mr W decided to contact the Police himself in the meantime and was able to speak to 
them the same day and call TSB back with the appropriate reference number and the online 
banking was unblocked. But I still dont think this means TSB acted unfairly by contacting the 
Police, given everything that had happened up to that point. 
It's unfortunate that, on this occasion, processes designed to protect customers held up a 
genuine payment. Overall, Im satisfied TSB were entitled in the circumstances to refuse to 
allow Mr Ws cash withdrawal, and the later transfer, and I dont think they treated Mr and 
Mrs W unfairly by blocking internet access to the account in line with their process given 
their concerns. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W responded to say he didnt agree for reasons Ive summarised below:
TSB didnt question him when he paid the money into the account.
He remained unhappy TSB questioned him at all and feels scams are being used as 
an excuse not to let people have their own money. 
He didnt want to attend the branch because it was a 25-mile round trip and as TSB 
blocked it remotely, Mr W felt they should be able to unblock it remotely. 
He maintained the Police had been involved because hed complained to them TSB 
were withholding his money. 
He still felt TSB had blocked his account after the switch was initiated. 
My provisional decision had said TSB had blocked a genuine payment, so why 
wasnt compensation awarded. 
TSB did not respond by the deadline. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision why I had found TSB hadnt treated Mr W unfairly by 
refusing the cash withdrawal, the attempted online transfer and then blocking his online 
banking. So, while Ive considered what Mr W has said about this in his response, I still dont 
think compensation is warranted. I say this because although I accept TSB stopped a 
genuine payment on this occasion, I dont think TSB made an error by doing so for the 
reasons Ive already explained. 
It was Mr Ws decision not to attend the branch. While it might have been possible for TSB to 
have unblocked the online banking remotely, they were asking Mr W to attend the branch for 
security reasons. Which I dont think was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
In respect of the switch, TSBs notes show the block was put in place on 7 February 2023. 
And in any event, I dont think this makes a difference to the overall outcome of the 
complaint. This is because the switch still took place within seven working days, as it 
shouldve done. While I know Mr and Mrs W wont agree, I remain satisfied TSB treated Mr and Mrs W fairly 
in all the circumstances.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman