DRN-3091954
The complaint
Miss E complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) lent to her irresponsibly.
Miss E is being assisted by a relative, Ms P, in bringing this complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here 
again. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss E has gone through a difficult time in the last few years and I acknowledge that this 
complaint is very important to her. Id like to reassure her, Ms P and Nationwide that Ive 
considered everything thats been submitted to our service in its entirety. That I concentrate 
on the crux of the issue in my decision isnt meant as a discourtesy but reflects the quick and 
informal service we provide.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
When deciding whether to lend to a customer, a business must carry out an 
assessment of the customers ability to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable 
manner. Theres no set list of checks that must be carried out, but they need to be 
proportionate when considered against the size of the loan, the loan repayments, or 
any other information the business has about the customer.
Nationwide has told us Miss E applied for a personal loan online. From the 
information it has sent us, I can see Nationwide asked Miss E for details about her 
income, her outgoings and her outstanding debts with other lenders when assessing 
affordability for the loan application. The record on Nationwides system also shows 
that the application was scored against credit information it held about Miss E, as 
well as that held by credit reference agencies. And the application passed the check.
Ms P states that Miss E had already built up a debt of £18,000 when she applied for 
the loan. She says Miss Es credit file should have revealed that shed taken out a 
loan for £13,200 with another lender in the previous month and she had several 
outstanding payday loans. Miss Es credit report shows the loan with the other lender 
started around ten days after she took out a loan with Nationwide. But Ms P says this 
is incorrect.
I thank Ms P for her detailed submission in this regard. While I understand the point 
shes making about the start date of the loan with the other lender and the date of the 
first payment being the same, I havent seen anything that tells me the start date of 
this loan. I think its also important to note that it can take some time for lenders to 
report information to credit reference agencies. Even if Miss Es loan with the other 
lender was taken out some time in March 2017, it doesnt automatically mean this 
information would have appeared on her credit file when Nationwide carried out a 
credit search. The available evidence suggests that the information about the other 
loan didnt appear on Miss Es credit file until after Nationwide had already assessed 
and approved her loan application. 
I acknowledge what Ms P has said about Miss Es history of payday loans, and I can 
see Miss E did have three payday loans active around the time she applied for a loan 
with Nationwide. Two of these were taken out less than ten days before Miss E 
applied for a loan with Nationwide. Given this short period, its unclear if these would 
have shown up on the credit search. Even if they did, the presence of payday loans 
alone doesnt necessarily make the lending irresponsible. The information Ive seen 
suggests that Miss E was looking to reduce her overall outgoings by consolidating 
existing debts. Indeed, she appears to have paid off a number of loans including the 
payday loans. Nationwide has provided a system screenshot showing the results of 
its credit search. It showed no history of default or arrears. So, I dont consider 
Nationwide had reason to be concerned at this stage.
It seems to me that Nationwide asked for information on Miss Es income and 
outgoings and assessed her ability to make payments over the term of the loan. It 
also scored her application against the information on her credit file as well as what it 
knew about her. Taking everything into account, I consider Nationwide did carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to Miss E. I also think it 
made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered and what it found in 
the proportionate checks.
Ive considered Ms Ps concerns about Nationwide registering a default prematurely 
when Miss E fell behind with her payments. The Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) has published guidance on the reporting of defaults and other information to 
credit reference agencies. In brief, it suggests that lenders should register a default 
between three and six months of missed payments. Ive reviewed Miss Es loan 
repayment history that Nationwide has provided us. Looking at the relevant period, 
she didnt make the contractual monthly payment for the month of May 2019. And 
while June and Julys payments were made, Miss Es account remained in arrears 
due to a missed payment. She didnt make the payments for August and September 
and Nationwide then registered a default on 11 September.
Ms P states the ICOs guidance states a default notice cant be issued until the 
consumer is three months in arrears. But the guidance refers to three months only in 
relation to registering a default, not sending a default notice that notifies the 
consumer of the lenders intention to register a default. I can see Nationwide sent a 
default notice to Miss E on 7 August. While it asked for the arrears to be paid within 
21 days (not 14 days as Ms P says), the default was only registered once 28 days 
from the date of default notice had lapsed.
I appreciate that Ms P believes the default was automatically registered at the end of 
August when the deadline given by Nationwide had lapsed. But in my experience, it 
isnt an automatic process and a lender has to register a default with the credit 
reference agencies. Ive seen complaints about lenders taking too long to act after 
the deadline given on a default notice has passed. In Miss Es case, her credit report 
confirms that the date of the default is being reported as 11 September 2019. The 
account was three months in arrears when Nationwide registered a default. As this is 
in line with the ICOs guidance, Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly in this regard.For the sake of completeness, even if my findings were that the default was 
registered prematurely, I would have gone on to note that Miss E didnt make a 
payment for the subsequent months. I would have concluded that Nationwide was 
entitled to register a default, albeit a month later, due to the level of arrears. This 
would be detrimental to Miss E as it would stay on her credit file for longer.
Ms P has said Nationwide shouldnt have appointed debt collectors before Miss Es 
account was defaulted. While the relevant regulations and guidance set out a 
lenders duty of due diligence when passing a debt to a third party for collection, 
I cant see that they state a lender isnt allowed to take this action until a default has 
been registered. In any event, given the default was registered less than two weeks 
later, I dont consider it makes a difference to the overall outcome.
Im sorry to learn about the issues that Miss E was experiencing with her mental 
health in 2019. Clearly, this must have been a difficult period for her. I appreciate that 
Miss E wasnt in a position to reach out to Nationwide. It is the case that lenders must 
treat customers in arrears with forbearance and due consideration. But Nationwide 
wasnt aware of Miss Es vulnerabilities or difficulties at the time. I havent seen 
anything that leads me to conclude that it should have been aware of this regardless 
of Miss E not reaching out directly. I can see Nationwide attempted to call her several 
times to discuss her arrears situation. Under the circumstances, I dont think it could 
have done anything more. It was several months after a default had been registered 
that Nationwide was made aware of Miss Es difficulties. I appreciate that having a 
default can have far-reaching effects. But I dont consider Nationwide was wrong in 
applying a default as Miss E wasnt keeping to the loan agreement and that was 
communicated to her.
I understand Miss E has made offers to settle the debt by making a reduced 
payment; the most recent offer being paying 50% of the outstanding balance. It is 
also my understanding this offer is with the view of having the default removed once 
the payment has been made. But banks must accurately report the status of an 
account. In line with the ICOs guidance, the fact that the account was in default will 
remain on Miss Es credit file for six years from the date of default. If Miss E makes a 
partial settlement offer and it is accepted, then the status of the account be reported 
as partially settled. 
In summary, although I know that Miss E and Ms P feel strongly about this complaint and 
recognise its likely that theyll disagree with my findings, I dont consider Nationwide lent to 
Miss E irresponsibly. And I dont think it acted unfairly when it subsequently registered a 
default on her credit file. Accordingly, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman