DRN-2305077
The complaint
Mr F has complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called 
Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading at the time as MoneyBoat. 
He says MoneyBoat lent to him irresponsibly because the loans he was provided with 
caused him financial problems.
What happened
We now know that Mr F took 2 loans from MoneyBoat; in February and July 2019. Ive 
enclosed a summary of Mr Fs borrowing based on the information provided to us:
Loan Date Taken Out Date Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 11/02/2019 30/07/2019 Payday £750 £328.97
2 30/07/2019 Outstanding Instalment £800 £246.37
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint and told Mr F that they didnt 
think it should be upheld. Mr F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Fs complaint.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr F could repay both the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought 
to have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the 
total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
MoneyBoat should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mr Fs complaint.
MoneyBoat told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr F, including 
assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that based on what was 
said, this information showed that Mr F would be able to make the loan repayments he was 
committing to on both occasions. 
Mr F declared his net income (after tax) as around £2,600 per month and he also provided 
details about his expenditure. I think its fair to say that from a starting point, this income 
level would appear to be supportive of the borrowing Mr F was seeking. And so, I think for 
the first loan, considering what hed also said about his outgoings, MoneyBoat would have 
concluded the lending was sustainable.
The situation for loan number 2 was similar. Mr Fs salary was much the same and the 
lending relationship was still at the early stages. The only difference is that we do now know 
that Mr F took slightly longer to pay back the earlier loan than had originally been agreed.
Ive thought about this issue and I note the money was, nevertheless, paid pack. And 
although Mr F was lent a broadly similar amount, I see the repayments were extended out 
over a longer period than for the previous loan. This reduced the loan 2 repayments due 
each month by quite a bit. Again, looking over what Mr F himself declared his income and 
expenditure to be, I think MoneyBoat would have safely concluded that lending to him was 
sustainable, not least because his new repayments each month were for lower amounts.
So, whilst I accept what Mr F says about his wider financial situation of that time being 
challenging, I dont think MoneyBoat would have exposed this fully in the financial checks it 
carried out or in the information Mr F himself disclosed. I therefore dont uphold the 
complaint about either loan.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr F.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct Evergreen 
Finance London Limited to pay Mr F any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman