DRN-4225937
The complaint
Mr P complains that Business Insurance Solutions Limited (BISL) provided incorrect 
information about the cancellation of his policy.
What happened
Mr P had a van insurance policy that was administered through a broker  BISL. On 11 June 
2022 his vehicle was seized by the police as they said he was driving it without insurance. 
Mr P contested this as he said he had text messages from BISL asking for payment for the 
policy and warning that the policy would be cancelled if this wasnt received. He said this 
showed the policy was still in place at that time. 
Following this Mr P contacted the insurer and it informed him that he had cancelled the 
policy himself on 28 May. He said this hadnt been the case and if it were he questioned why 
BISL had continued to seek to collect the monthly premiums.
Mr P subsequently made complaints to both the insurer and to BISL about how the matter 
had been handled and the fact his premiums had been retained. BISL didnt respond to his 
complaint so he asked this service to investigate.
Our investigator contacted BISL for its response to the complaint, but it didnt respond to her 
requests. So she reviewed it based on the information provided by Mr P. She said she 
thought BISL hadnt given Mr P correct notice that the policy had been cancelled. And that 
its messages about payment had said it would reattempt to collect the money on 16 June 
2022 and his policy would cancel if this wasnt possible. So, Mr P was reasonable to believe 
that he had insurance cover at the time his vehicle was seized. 
She thought BISL should reimburse Mr P the cost of recovering the vehicle, cover the cost of 
the premiums being demanded by the insurer and pay Mr P £500 compensation to make up 
for the distress it had caused him. She also thought it should issue a letter confirming that 
policy cover was in place on 11 June 2022. 
Mr P accepted our investigators outcome. However despite numerous requests, BISL didnt 
respond. Because of this, the matter has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BISL has provided this service with no information in relation to this complaint, despite ample 
opportunity to do so. 
The rules that govern this service are laid out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook  the Dispute Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook (DISP). DISP 3.5.1 states that 
The Ombudsman will attempt to resolve complaints at the earliest possible stage and by 
whatever means appear to him to be most appropriate 
Due to the nature of this complaint, the ongoing strain it has put on Mr P, and the informal 
nature of this service, I dont believe it would be fair to delay matters any further. Especially 
considering we have made numerous attempts to obtain information from BISL by both 
phone and email. I therefore consider it most appropriate, and in line with our rules, to make 
a decision based on the evidence available, without waiting further for a response from BISL.
It is a legal requirement to have insurance in place for any vehicle that is on the road. 
Therefore, the consequences of cancelling a motor insurance policy can be great. For this 
reason, this service expects brokers to ensure they make it clear to their customers if a 
policy has been cancelled. And we expect them to confirm it in writing, giving at least seven 
days notice.
Often this is contained in the terms and conditions of the policy. And in Mr Ps case, the 
documents sent to him by BISL confirming the policy stated as follows:
We can cancel your policy by sending you a seven-day notice in writing to your last known 
address 
Here, the insurer of the policy has said Mr P cancelled it himself. However Mr P has disputed 
this and said he had no knowledge of the cancellation. And as he paid his policy premiums 
in May 2022 and continued to drive the vehicle, I am persuaded by his account. 
Further, Mr P has provided copies of text messages sent by BISL regarding a missed 
payment. The most relevant states that a payment has failed and will be reattempted on 16 
June 2022. And in this text, there is no mention of the policy having already been cancelled. 
So, from this, I think Mr P was reasonable to believe that the policy was in place at least up 
until 16 June 2022. 
Further Ive seen no evidence to suggest that BISL attempted to inform Mr P of the policy 
cancellation in any other way.
For this reason, I dont think BISL did enough to inform Mr P that his policy would be or had 
been cancelled. Its text messages implied that the policy cover remained in place. And Ive 
seen nothing to suggest the cancellation was communicated to Mr P in any other way. And 
while the insurer has said it was informed Mr P cancelled the policy himself, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest this was the case. And the fact Mr P continued to drive the vehicle 
supports that he hadnt cancelled the policy.
I therefore agree with our investigators recommendation that BISL should seek to put Mr P 
back in the position he would have been in had his policy not been cancelled when it was. 
To do this, it should reimburse Mr P for any amounts paid to recover the vehicle, including 
8% interest to make up for him being without the funds. And it should refund the insurer any 
amounts due for the remaining policy term, as Mr P hasnt had the benefit of policy cover 
during this time. It should also provide a letter to confirm that the policy was incorrectly 
cancelled and should have been in place on 11 June 2022, in case this is required by Mr P 
at any point. Ive also considered the impact this has had on Mr P. He has explained that while he has 
had to attend court in relation to driving without insurance, the case has now been dismissed 
and there will be no further action. However, the situation has clearly had a significant impact 
on Mr P, as he has had the court action hanging over him. And he has been unable to get 
hold of BISL for any support or explanation. This has been both distressing and inconvenient 
for him. I therefore agree with our investigator that BISL should pay Mr P £500 
compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Business Insurance 
Solutions Limited to:
Reimburse Mr P for any costs relating to recovering his vehicle, plus 8% simple 
interest from the date he paid for these until payment is made, to make up for the 
time hes been without the funds. 
Refund the insurer the outstanding policy premiums, if these are still required.
Pay Mr P £500 compensation. 
Provide Mr P with a letter confirming that the policy was incorrectly cancelled and 
cover should have been in place on 11 June 2022..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman