DRN-4121335
The complaint
A small business which Ill refer to as R, complains Zurich Insurance PLC has unreasonably 
declined a claim it made on a business protection policy.
Mr A brings this complaint on behalf of R but has also chosen to be represented. However, 
for ease, in this decision, I will simply refer to R and Mr A where needed.
What happened
What follows is only intended to be a summary of the events that led to this complaint. It 
does not therefore provide all the detail. This is intentional in order to avoid disclosing too 
much information about the circumstances of the underlying matter.
In June 2018 R discovered a potential loss of money from the business. It undertook an 
investigation and the employment of the employee concerned was ended. The employee 
agreed to pay back the loss that had been identified.
R however had concerns that the wrongdoing by the employee went back further than the 
dates it had originally considered, so it started to investigate further. It also informed the 
police of what had happened.
R had informed its insurance broker, (C), of what was happening however it appears this 
information was not passed onto Zurich as notification of a potential claim. R also did not 
contact Zurich directly to let it know what was happening.
The employee concerned then became subject to a police investigation with other interested 
agencies becoming involved in that investigation. The police worked with R to identify and 
establish its outstanding loss.
In February 2020, C contacted Zurich to notify it of a claim. Zurich considered the 
circumstances but said the claim wasnt covered as it was made aware of it too late. Under 
the policy terms it says claims must be made within 45 days of the end date of the policy 
year in which the loss is first discovered. It says as the claim wasnt raised with it, within that 
time, there was no cover in place.
R disagreed with this and complained to Zurich. It said it had made the broker aware of what 
was happening however the initial loss that was discovered was repaid by the employee 
meaning there was no reason to make a claim. When the further losses were established, 
but not fully quantified, it realised it would need to make a claim. And so, it contends its claim 
should be covered as it was raised within the policy year the (further) loss was discovered. 
Zurich didnt agree and so R brought the complaint to this service.
An investigator looked at the complaint but explained to R she didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said the policy did include a term regarding timely notification from first 
discovery of the loss and she thought that was June 2018.
However, she said that on a fair and reasonable basis, this service would usually expect an 
insurer to demonstrate how it had been prejudiced by late notification of a claim.
Here Zurich explained that had it been made aware of the loss sooner, it could have, among 
other things, cooperated with police enquiries, used its own resources to establish Rs loss 
and explored potential routes to recovering the money from the employee. It also pointed out 
that it was denied the opportunity to correctly account for the potential loss for reporting 
purposes and that this was information that should have been taken into account when 
renewing Rs policy.
The investigator accepted that Zurich had been prejudiced by the late notification of the 
claim and therefore she thought it had acted fairly when declining the claim.
R disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It provided 
further information regarding the litigation that had taken place concerning the employee and 
actions that were being taken to recover funds. It said the police had been made aware that 
an insurance policy was held with Zurich.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on 21 April 2023. I said I intended to uphold the complaint 
for the following reasons:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair in the circumstances, I need to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The relevant policy terms say as soon as reasonably practicable upon the discovery of a 
loss the insurer must be notified. And that this must be done no later than 45 days after the 
end of the period of insurance. The policy also sets out that where more than one loss arises 
from one act of fraud or dishonesty or a series of acts, they will be treated as one and will be 
attributed to the period of insurance where the first loss arising from the series was 
discovered.
I think it is accepted here that Zurich wasnt made aware of the loss when it was first 
discovered. And that the notification would be considered late as it wasnt notified within 45 
days of the end of the 2018/2019 policy year. I accept there are issues around the 
notification to C and its role in the relationship between the parties, however here I must 
consider the point at which Zurich itself became aware of the potential claim.
I also note the arguments put forward about the different loss periods, however given the 
policy wording regarding a series of losses, I would take that reasonably to mean the date of 
discovery would still be brought back to June 2018.
So, based on this information I do consider there has been a breach of the claim notification 
terms on the policy and that the claim was notified late. On a strict interpretation of the policy 
terms Zurich would therefore be entitled to decline the claim.
However, on a fair and reasonable basis I wouldnt expect Zurich to decline the claim if it 
hasnt been prejudiced by the late notification. When looking at prejudice our service would 
usually look to see if things like the following have been compromised: the preservation of 
evidence, ability to trace witnesses, legal time bars or interest and costs building up. Or, if 
the insurer has lost the ability to do things such as seeing if the case has reasonable prospects of success, agreeing terms with a policyholders solicitor or trying to negotiate 
legal rights.
Ive considered how Zurich has said it would have been prejudiced but I dont agree what it 
has identified shows that would have been the case.
Given the complexity of the litigation that was taking place and the agencies that were 
already involved in that investigation. I think it is more likely than not there would have been 
little Zurich would have been able, or permitted to do, to influence those proceedings. I think 
more likely than not it would have undertaken a watching brief on the matter.
Zurich may have been able to use its resources to help R establish the loss suffered, and 
had it not declined the claim, it could have become involved like it suggests, as the matter 
was far from concluded. However, I note that R was able to do that of its own accord and it 
has said the police were made aware of the presence of an insurance policy. I also note a 
forensic analysis was part of the underlying police investigation. So again, in any event Im 
not sure here exactly what Zurich believes it would have been able to establish over and 
above what was discovered by other parties. 
I understand what Zurich has said about reserving the value of the potential claim, and while 
I accept it hasnt been able to do this. I dont think this is an overriding factor which means it 
was unable to accept or deal with the claim at a later point in time.
I intend to uphold the complaint and direct Zurich to accept the claim and deal with it in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Responses to my provisional findings
R responded saying it accepted my provisional findings.
Zurich said it disagreed. It commented that I had said it was entitled to decline the claim and 
id outlined how it had been prejudiced. There was no way of knowing now what influence 
Zurich could have had on matters. And it didnt think it was fair for me to concentrate on the 
extent that it had suffered prejudice. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision what things we would usually look for to see if an 
insurer has been prejudiced in its ability to deal with a claim. And I set out why I didnt think 
Zurich had been. 
Zurich is right, there is now no way of knowing what influence it could have had. But I think 
that is due to its own actions of declining the claim unfairly. At the time Zurich was notified, 
wider events, relatively speaking, were still at early stages. And there was ample opportunity 
for Zurich to get involved. So, for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision, Im 
not persuaded it was prejudiced, by the late notification, in its ability to deal with the claim. 
Ive reconsidered Zurichs point about reserving the potential claim value, but again, for the 
same reasons as set out in my provisional decision Im not persuaded this would have 
prevented Zurich being able to accept or deal with the claim at a later point in time.
For the reasons above, and those set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.  Putting things right
Zurich should accept the claim and deal with it in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. It cannot use the late notification of the claim, or the consequences 
of its initial decision to decline the claim, as reasons to decline the claim further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Rs complaint against Zurich Insurance PLC. It should put 
things right as I have set out in the section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman