DRN-3307294
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that repairs carried out by Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral) under their home emergency cover were of poor quality.
What happened
At the beginning of April 2019, Mr and Mrs C contacted Admirals home emergency team 
because they were experiencing problems with their domestic electricity supply. Mr C said 
the circuit breaker on their new fuse board kept dropping out. He said hed been putting it 
back in, but that after half an hour it would drop out again. A home emergency engineer from 
Admiral attended that same day.
Mr C spoke to Admiral in December 2020. He complained that the electrical supply within his 
property kept tripping because itd not been fixed by Admirals engineer in April 2019. He 
said there were parts missing from the consumer unit and he could put his fingers through 
the board. Mr and Mrs C sent Admiral a copy of an engineers invoice for work theyd paid 
for to put right the issue. But Admiral said itd need a report from Mr and Mrs C saying that it 
was Admirals engineer that caused the problem. 
Admirals final response letter (FRL) said it wasnt Admirals engineer that had caused the 
ongoing problems Mr and Mrs C were experiencing, but rather the poor workmanship that its 
engineer had seen when hed attended in April 2019. It said that Mr C contacted Admiral the 
day after its engineers visit to ask for a copy of its engineers report because Mr C said he 
was going to contact trading standards about the installers. And that during this call, Mr C 
said he was happy with Admirals service the previous day. Admiral also said its engineers 
are not there to provide permanent repairs.
Mr C and Mrs C didnt agree with Admirals final response. Mr C said the invoice hed sent 
listed the poor workmanship of Admirals engineer and that Admirals final response was 
discriminatory against himself and Mrs C. Admiral responded saying it wouldnt be changing 
its final response and that it had found no evidence of discrimination in its handling of Mr and 
Mrs Cs complaint. Mr and Mrs C also told Admiral they wanted it to pay for the 
consequential damage to their electrical appliances and equipment caused by Admirals 
poor workmanship.
Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to us. But our investigator didnt uphold it. He said the 
unit couldnt have been installed by Admiral. He also said that the problems Mr and Mrs C 
had been experiencing were most likely the result of poor workmanship when the consumer 
unit was installed.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators view because they said the consumer unit
had been installed by Admirals engineer. They asked for an ombudsmans decision and the 
complaint was referred to me.
I considered all the available evidence about Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Id also considered 
points which our investigator hadnt covered in his view. So I issued a provisional decision 
giving both parties a further chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final 
decision. 
My provisional decision
 
My provisional decision was that I was minded not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows: 
Its not in dispute that the poor installation of the consumer unit is responsible for the 
problems Mr and Mrs C experienced with their electricity supply. What is in dispute, is 
whether or not the consumer unit was installed by Admiral. And whether the problems Mr 
and Mrs C experienced were Admirals fault.
If Admiral installed the consumer unit, its reasonable to think that thered be a claim 
corresponding to the replacement of the consumer unit. So I asked Admiral to provide Mr 
and Mrs Cs claims history for both their home emergency and household cover. Admiral 
said there was only one claim relating to electricity which was made in March 2019, which it 
says was declined. But despite this and around the same time, Admiral say its household 
insurance team sent an engineer to Mr and Mrs Cs property to help and advise them. This 
engineer noted faulty workmanship and said that Mr and Mrs Cs consumer unit had caused 
a power surge in their property.
The report from Admirals home emergency visit on 5 April 2019 noted that a new consumer 
unit had been installed in Mr and Mrs Cs property with many loose or open connections. 
The report made no mention of the engineer installing a consumer unit only that hed Fixed 
the issue around consumer unit and tested.
I asked Mr and Mrs C if they had any evidence to demonstrate that Admiral installed the 
consumer unit, but they didnt provide a response.
Mr C said in the call on 5 April 2019, when he reported the issue, that a new consumer unit 
had been installed in mid-March 2019. He also told Admiral he was referring the installers to 
trading standards.
So given all of the above evidence, I dont think the consumer unit was installed by Admiral 
because there is no corresponding claim, no evidence that the unit was installed by Admiral 
and the calls between Mr and Mrs C and Admiral suggest it was a third party that installed 
the consumer unit. I also think the problems Mr and Mrs C experienced were present before 
Admirals home emergency engineer attended on 5 April 2019 and were most likely caused 
by the poor installation of their consumer unit by a third party engineer.
Admiral said to Mr C that its decision to decline his claim was in accordance with Mr and Mrs 
Cs policy wording. Ive reviewed the terms of Mr and Mrs Cs home emergency cover. On 
page 35 of Mr and Mrs Cs policy booklet, it says that Any defect, damage or failure caused 
by your contractors....misuse or negligence is excluded from Mr and Mrs Cs cover. So I 
dont think Admiral was being unfair or unreasonable in not paying Mr and Mrs C the cost to 
them of correcting the consumer units poor installation because I think the installation had 
been carried out by a third party contractor.
Ive not seen any evidence of any consequential damage or any evidence that makes me 
think the actions of Admirals engineer were the cause of any consequential damage there 
may have been. Ive said above that I dont think Admiral installed the consumer unit. Also 
the invoice provided by Mr and Mrs Cs own engineer  who attended after the 5 April 2019 visit  didnt say whose poor work the engineer had seen, only that it was someones poor 
work. And the problems Mr and Mrs C had experienced began before Admirals home 
emergency engineer attended. So I dont think it would be fair for me to require Admiral to 
pay for the consequential damage Mr and Mrs C say that thered been.
Mr and Mrs C say Admirals engineer left the board in an unsafe state. But there were no 
safety concerns noted in any of the engineers reports and Ive not seen any evidence that 
Mr and Mrs C suffered any personal injury because of the consumer unit.
Mr and Mrs C told us that they shouldve been given a certificate of compliance. Ive already 
said that I think the consumer unit was installed by someone employed by Mr and Mrs C and 
not Admiral. So I think it would be down to whoever installed the consumer unit to provide 
any required certification to Mr and Mrs C and not Admiral as the insurer. Mr and Mrs C may 
wish to check the position with the relevant trade body or authority because I dont think its 
the role of this service to comment on certification that isnt directly linked to work done on 
behalf of the insurer.
Mr and Mrs C have also said Admirals engineer stole parts from their consumer unit. Mr and 
Mrs C would need to raise this first with Admiral so it can respond to this point before this 
service can make a finding on it.
Mr and Mrs C also say they feel Admiral has discriminated against them. I have asked Mr 
and Mrs C to explain why they felt Admiral acted in a discriminatory way. Mr and Mrs C 
havent explained their reasons for why they feel that way, so I have based my findings on 
the evidence I have on file. I cant comment on whether Mr and Mrs C were discriminated 
against as its outside this services jurisdictional remit and only a court of law can make a 
finding like that. But I can consider whether I think Admiral has treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly 
or unreasonably. And having looked at all the evidence I dont think Admiral has. So Im 
minded not to require Admiral to do anything further in respect of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Admiral accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any further comment or 
information. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept my provisional decision. They said again that Admirals engineer 
stole parts from their consumer unit. They felt Id ignored the information provided by their 
own engineer and the points theyd made about spelling mistakes in their documentation. 
They said as well that they felt the documents provided by Admiral were, made up lies and 
slander and are, fraud documents and that Admiral shouldve provided a certificate of 
compliance. They also said they had no open claims with Admiral and that Admirals agent 
was not registered to do any type of electrical work. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs C said in their response that Admirals engineer had stolen parts from their 
consumer unit. As I said in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs C would need to raise this 
first with Admiral so it can respond to this point before this service can make a finding on it. Mr and Mrs C also said that Admirals agent isnt registered to carry out electrical work. But  
as with the above - this is something that Mr and Mrs C would need to raise first with 
Admiral.
 
Mr and Mrs C reiterated in their response that Admiral shouldve provided a certificate of 
compliance for the work its engineer did. In my provisional decision Id said that I thought the 
unit had been installed by someone employed by Mr and Mrs C. So itd be the responsibility 
of the installer to provide any certification and not Admiral. Neither Mr and Mrs Cs nor 
Admirals responses have persuaded me to depart from my provisional finding on this. 
Mr and Mrs C said Id ignored information provided by their engineer. But Id considered their 
engineers report when making my provisional decision. And said Mr and Mrs Cs engineers 
report didnt say whose poor work the engineer had seen, only that it was someones poor 
work. I then said that because of this, it wouldnt be fair for me to require Admiral to pay for 
the consequential damage Mr and Mrs C had said thered been. Neither Mr and Mrs Cs nor 
Admirals responses have given me reason to depart from my provisional finding here. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy about the spelling mistakes Admiral had made in their 
documentation. But I dont think these are material to this complaint because Admiral still 
sent an engineer to investigate the issues Mr and Mrs C reported with their electricity supply. 
Also, Ive not seen anything that makes me think the documentation Admiral provided to this 
service wasnt genuine.
So because Admiral didnt provide any further comment or information in response to my 
provisional decision and because Mr and Mrs C didnt provide any new or material 
information or arguments in their response, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional 
findings.
So, in line with my provisional decision, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
So I dont require Admiral to cover the cost of the remedial work Mr and Mrs C paid for or the 
consequential damage Mr and Mrs C said had been caused by the poor installation of their 
consumer unit.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman