DRN-1823680
 
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) failed to repair his boiler in 
line with a safety notice within a reasonable timescale. He also complains that British Gas 
rearranged appointments at short notice. 
What happened
Mr W had boiler and controls breakdown insurance with British Gas. The first annual service 
was a free benefit in addition to the insurance. British Gas serviced and repaired his boiler 
over the course of five appointments during a single month. 
Six months later, British Gas arranged to complete a further boiler service. It needed to 
change the appointment to the following month but Mr W was unhappy with the change. He 
said he had rearranged medical appointments to fit around the boiler service. British Gas 
offered a new appointment closer to the original date which Mr W accepted. 
During the service, the engineer told Mr W that a safety alert was issued earlier in the year 
for his model of boiler and passed his details to the boiler manufacturer. The manufacturer 
arranged for and completed a seal replacement a few days later.
Mr Ws complaint was that British Gas didnt see that there was a safety alert when it 
completed the boiler service six months before and he felt he and his family were at risk 
during that time. He was also unhappy that British Gas changed the appointment, causing 
him inconvenience, and it failed to call him on several occasions after promising to do so.
British Gas told Mr W that it hadnt been aware of the safety alert on the boiler seal until after 
the first service, so it wouldnt have picked anything up during that first appointment. In 
response to his complaint about the change of appointment, British Gas said the terms and 
conditions of the insurance policy allow for changes to routine appointments and it didnt 
think it couldve done anything differently.
British Gas acknowledged that it hadnt returned Mr Ws calls on a number of occasions and 
offered £30 by way of apology. Mr W didnt think the offer adequately compensated him for 
the inconvenience and upset he experienced. British Gas withdrew the compensation offer 
because Mr W rejected it in favour of a decision from our service. British Gas sent its final 
response letter to Mr W but he didnt receive it until two weeks later.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2020 explaining that I was intending to partly uphold 
Mr Ws complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
The first annual boiler service was a free benefit of Mr Ws insurance policy so its 
appropriate for me to address any issues relating to it.  British Gas carried out the boiler service one week after the safety notice was published on 
the gas safe register. British Gas says it followed industry guidelines when notifying its 
engineers of the safety alert, and I have no reason to doubt that. Equally, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Mr W to expect the engineer to have been aware of the safety notice within 
a week of publication. So my focus is on whether there was any detriment to Mr W caused 
by British Gas delay in spotting that his boiler was one of those affected by the notice. I 
dont think there was.
The safety alert required a change in the boiler seal and asked users to make an 
appointment through the manufacturer. There was no indication that it was an urgent matter 
when compared with other urgent notices. British Gas acted on the notice during the second 
annual service appointment, referred the matter to the manufacturer, and the seal was 
replaced within a few days. If British Gas had acted on the notice during the first annual 
service, its likely the seal wouldve still been replaced within a few days. But during the six 
months between when it couldve been replaced and when it actually was replaced, there 
was no detriment to Mr W. Although I understand he was concerned about what mightve 
happened to his family if anything had gone wrong with the boiler, nothing did. He wasnt 
aware of the requirement to upgrade the seal until the second service, so his concerns 
wouldve been limited to the few days until the manufacturer replaced the seal. It isnt fair for 
me to ask British Gas to compensate him or take any action in respect of something which 
didnt happen.
I can understand the inconvenience Mr W mustve experienced when British Gas postponed 
his second annual boiler service at the last minute. Ive looked at the terms and conditions 
and I can see that they allow for British Gas to rearrange routine appointments during busy 
periods or to attend emergency appointments. An annual boiler service is a routine 
appointment so Im satisfied that its decision to rearrange is covered in the terms and 
conditions. While I sympathise with Mr W because he had moved medical appointments to fit 
around the service, it wasnt something he was expected to do. I dont think British Gas 
acted unfairly.
I understand that British Gas made Mr W aware of its final position on webchat. While it was 
almost three weeks before he received the final response letter, I see that British Gas sent 
the letter much sooner. Even so, Im satisfied that the delay in receiving the final response 
letter didnt cause any detriment because Mr W had already brought his complaint to us. I 
dont think any action is needed in respect of this point.
Mr W was unhappy that British Gas didnt call him back on a number of occasions. This point 
is not disputed and British Gas offered £30 by way of an apology. I can understand that Mr 
W wouldve been frustrated at not receiving the calls he was promised and he went to the 
inconvenience of calling British Gas more than he shouldve needed to. I note that British 
Gas withdrew the offer when Mr W brought his complaint to us and it did so to prevent 
confusion rather than because it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Having looked at 
the evidence its clear that British Gas failed to respond to several of Mr Ws calls. This 
demonstrates poor service and, understandably, Mr W mightve felt ignored. I am satisfied 
that the shortfall in customer service warrants compensation but I think £70 is a more 
appropriate amount as it reflects the repeated nature of the service shortfall.
Finally, Ive considered Mr Ws additional comment that either the case handler or customer 
service agent lied to him. He thinks this because British Gas told him his complaint had been 
assigned but when the case handler called they said it was assigned that day. I understand 
the point Mr W is making but it doesnt change the outcome of his complaint. Providing 
British Gas progressed his complaint through its process, I dont think the specific detail of 
when it assigned his complaint is relevant. On balance, I think its likely that British Gas was 
simply trying to reassure Mr W that it was looking into his complaint.I said I was intending to:
partly uphold the complaint and I am minded to require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr W £70 by way of apology for failing to respond to calls on several occasions.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
C responded to say that he felt British Gas shouldnt take so long to act on safety recalls and 
he couldnt understand why a business of that size isnt more efficient.
British Gas responded to say that it didnt think its failure to make promised call backs 
warranted a payment of £70. However, it did increase its original offer of £30 to £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr W feels strongly about British Gas failure to act sooner in response to 
the safety recall. However, as the notice only asked users to make appointments through the 
manufacturer for a change of boiler seal, Im satisfied that there was no indication that British 
Gas needed to do anything more urgently. If the seal was of significant danger, the 
manufacturer couldnt reasonably expect all users of that boiler to be customers of British 
Gas, so its likely a more publicised recall wouldve been actioned. In those circumstances, 
Id expect British Gas and any other relevant business to proactively change the seal. That 
wasnt the case here, so Im satisfied that there is nothing more British Gas needs to do.
While British Gas increased its compensation offer, Im still of the view that £70 is a fair 
amount in recognition of its failure to call Mr W on several occasions. Mr W couldve 
reasonably expected British Gas to call him back when it promised. Its repeated failure to do 
so leads me to think the inconvenience to him was greater than it has acknowledged. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold in part Mr Ws 
complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mr W a total of £70 by way of apology for 
failing to respond to calls on several occasions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman