DRN-4420873
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with QIC Europe Ltds (QIC) handling of a claim made under her home 
insurance.
What happened
Mrs B has a home insurance policy, underwritten by QIC. In August 2021 there was a fire at 
Mrs Bs neighbours property which caused damage to her home, so she made a claim to 
QIC.
Mrs B was unhappy with QICs handling of her claim, so she brought a previous complaint to 
this service. This was considered by one of our investigators, and they upheld the complaint 
on 23 January 2023 and recommended QIC pay a further £900 compensation. QIC agreed 
and that case was closed. 
However, Mrs B is unhappy with QICs further handling of her claim since that point, and that 
she hasnt received reimbursement of some paint costs or her policy excess. So, Mrs B 
asked this service to consider things and a new complaint was set up.
One of our investigators considered things from 24 January 2023 (post the previous 
investigator assessment) and issued his assessment on 22 September 2023. He said that 
he didnt think there were any avoidable lengthy delays which were solely the fault of QIC. 
He also said that QIC hadnt yet been able to make a recovery from the neighbour, so at this 
stage the excess was the responsibility of Mrs B.
The investigator asked QIC why they hadnt yet reimbursed the paint costs and they said 
they were unable to find evidence that this was previously agreed, but in the interest of 
resolving matters, they were happy to reimburse this. The investigator thought this was 
reasonable.
Mrs B didnt agree overall and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mrs B, Ive reached 
the same outcome as our investigator.
I acknowledge Mrs B says that this claim was made through no fault of her own as it was a 
fire at her neighbours property, which resulted in damage to her property. And I 
acknowledge she is unhappy with how long things have taken overall given the fire 
happened in August 2021.
However, a previous complaint with this service considered everything that occurred before 
23 January 2023, and the investigator recommended £900 compensation for this, which QIC 
agreed with. As a complaint for events before 23 January 2023 has already been considered 
by this service, like our investigator, Im only considering what happened after that point.
I dont intend to comment on the full timeline of what happened since then as both parties 
are already aware. However, whilst I note Mrs B is unhappy with the time taken, I dont think 
there were any lengthy avoidable delays which were solely the fault of QIC.
I understand it was mainly the remaining plastering and decorating which needed 
completing, and also snagging works. QIC has explained that this needed to be considered 
by its senior claim handlers, and the scope of works needed to be amended several times 
too.
Following the completion of the works in June 2023 there were still snagging issues, which 
included adjusting the door. Mrs B confirmed she was satisfied with the completion of all 
works in July 2023.
I do appreciate Mrs B is looking at the whole claim from start to finish, and the length of time 
overall it took since August 2021, along with the inconvenience she was caused throughout 
and the multiple issues which occurred. However, my consideration here is limited to 
24 January 2023 onwards. And as I say, I dont think there were any lengthy and avoidable 
delays during this time.
With this in mind, I wont be directing QIC to pay Mrs B further compensation.
Mrs B also said QIC had agreed to pay for paint costs she incurred, but despite this, they 
didnt reimburse her. Our investigator asked QIC about this, but they said they had no 
records of agreeing to this. Its my understanding that Mrs B says this was in a telephone 
call, but QIC says it doesnt have any records of agreeing to this. But in any event, QIC has 
since said theyll reimburse this cost in the interest of resolving the complaint. I think this is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs B is also unhappy she has had to pay an excess and she says that QIC should have 
recovered this from the neighbours insurer by this point in time.
As explained by our investigator, the terms of Mrs Bs policy say she is responsible for 
paying the excess in the event of a claim. And as shes made a claim under her policy, the 
excess would be payable.
QIC has confirmed that at this stage it hasnt been able to make a recovery from the 
neighbours insurer yet. So as a recovery hasnt yet been made, and the terms require Mrs B 
to pay an excess for a claim under her policy, Im not going to direct QIC to do anything 
further in relation to this at this stage.My final decision
QIC Europe Ltd has made an offer to reimburse the cost of paint to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my final decision is that QIC should reimburse Mrs Bs paint costs as per the invoice 
shes provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman