DRN-3843484
The complaint
Mrs M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC refuses to refund money she lost to an investment 
scammer. 
What happened
Mrs M has explained that in 2021 and 2022 she made a series of payments to SEPA CT 
Coin Group, Swiftency and Cryptopay, from her Barclays current account, using her Visa 
debit card, for what she thought was a legitimate investment. 
She sent a total of £20,311.58 in debit card payments between 14 June 2021 and 25 
February 2022. 
When Mrs M subsequently got in touch with Barclays to explain shed been scammed, 
Barclays attempted chargeback claims for the transactions that were within the chargeback 
schemes required timescales but these were defended and so Barclays were unable to 
refund any of Mrs Ms losses. Remaining unhappy, Mrs M referred her complaint about 
Barclays to this office. As our investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case 
has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint, for materially the same reasons as the investigator. 
Ill explain why.
At the time Mrs M made her payments, banks were expected to process payments a
customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should
have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
There is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every
transaction.
There were fraud triggers at different points here because Barclays intervened when Mrs M 
made some of the payments in dispute. Ive listened to the calls Barclays had with Mrs M 
and read notes recorded of conversations it had with her.  
On 23 June 2021, Mrs M made two large payments out of her account to Swiftency, 
Barclays flagged the payments and blocked her account. Mrs M spoke with Barclays on 1 
July 2021, she was reluctant to answer questions and advised the payments were a private 
matter. Unhappy with her responses, Barclays asked Mrs M to attend a branch with two 
forms of identification. It suspected her account may have been taken over and asked her to 
attend a branch with identification before they could authorise any further payments out of 
the account. 
When Mrs M attended a branch and confirmed the transactions as genuine, the notes 
recorded at the time show that a warning was provided about investment scams and Mrs M 
said; thats my business and if I get scammed I get scammed. There were further fraud 
triggers when Mrs M paid Cryptopay in November 2021. Barclays again provided a further 
scam warning and Mrs M was asked to attend a branch again to confirm her identity as the 
bank suspected her account may have been taken over  which she duly did.  
Ive noted Mrs M feels that Barclays could have done more and her reluctance to answer 
questions ought to have caused Barclays more suspicion, I dont necessarily agree. 
There is a balance to be struck  banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and to 
act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction or stop payments altogether unless they have reasonable grounds to do so. Im 
satisfied Barclays did enough to probe Mrs M, asking questions and bringing to her attention 
common signs of crypto investment scams. It also invited her into branch on two occasions. 
Whilst Mrs M was reluctant to answer questions, I think Barclays did enough to alert her to 
common crypto scams and she didnt take its concerns or advice any further forward. I dont 
think Mrs M provided enough information for Barclays to suspect shed fallen victim to a 
scam and was clear that it was her account to do with as she wishes  I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Barclays to do anymore based on Mrs Ms responses. 
I understand Mrs M reported the scam to Barclays in 2022 and Barclays attempted to 
process chargeback claims for the transactions that fell within the Visa timescales 
(transactions that were processed within 120 days). All of these chargebacks were defended 
as Mrs M received the services she paid for (converting her £sterling to crypto and sending 
that crypto onto a wallet of her choosing). I dont consider any other chargeback options 
were available for the earlier transactions as the relevant timescales for doing so had passed 
by the time Mrs M contacted Barclays. As Mrs M didnt pay the scammers directly and the 
crypto exchange companies she did pay provided a service to her, I dont think Barclays 
acted unreasonably by deciding to drop the chargeback claims when it did.
I appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed with this outcome. But I can only uphold this 
complaint if Im satisfied Barclays did something wrong that caused her loss. And in this 
case, whilst I sympathise with Mrs Ms position, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not 
persuaded Barclays can fairly be held responsible for her losses. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mrs Ms loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman