DRN-1485501
 
Complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold him a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr A was sold a PPI policy in connection with a mortgage in 2003. The PPI would have 
provided a monthly benefit for up 12 months per claim if Mr A was off work sick or lost his 
job.
In 2005 Mr A took out a further advance and the PPI policy was amended to reflect this 
increase in borrowing.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. Mr A didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. I understand that Mr A will be 
disappointed by this outcome but I will now explain why I have decided not to uphold this 
complaint.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr A was eligible for PPI. Bearing in mind Mr As age and 
circumstances at the time of the sale, I think Mr A was eligible.
NatWest had to make it clear to Mr A that the PPI was optional and needed his consent for it 
to be applied to the account. Mr A has told us that he felt pressured into taking PPI. 
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale so Ive thought about everything Mr A 
and NatWest have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form completed in 2002. This had 
a separate section for PPI and I note that Mr A answered yes to PPI. There was nothing to 
suggest that PPI was compulsory in this form. I also note that Mr A then went on to complete 
a separate application form (in 2003) and direct debit mandate for PPI. 
Although the mortgage application form for the further advance in 2005 doesnt indicate that 
Mr A requested PPI again  this is more likely to have been because he had an existing PPI 
policy which would have just required an amendment to cover the new borrowing. The mortgage quotation relating to this further advance describes the PPI as optional and I note 
Mr A again completed a separate direct debit for PPI to reflect the amendment. 
Of course I appreciate what Mr A has told us about being pressured, but I just dont have 
sufficient evidence to be able to conclude that this is what is more likely to have happened.
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think its more likely that PPI was presented as optional 
and was only applied to the account because Mr A chose to take it out.
NatWest initially said that they may have advised Mr A to take PPI but that this was not the 
sales process at the time. They have since clarified that they didnt advise Mr A to take PPI. 
If they had advised Mr A to take PPI, they would have had to take steps to ensure the PPI 
was suitable for Mr A. They wouldnt have needed to do this if they hadnt advised Mr A to 
take PPI. In fairness to Mr A, Ive considered whether the policy was suitable for him. Having 
done so, I think it was. I say this because:
 
Although Mr A has told us about his sick pay entitlement, the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to Mr As sick pay and for a longer period of time. It would also have 
paid out if he lost his job in addition to any redundancy pay he may have been 
entitled to. Mr A has also mentioned he had savings, however, it appears that these 
savings were to be used for other purposes and savings arent necessarily 
guaranteed. In any event if Mr A did have some savings available if/when the need 
arose, he could have used these towards essential living expenses while the PPI 
took care of his mortgage repayments. 
 
Mr A doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which may have 
made it difficult for him to make a claim or stopped him from making a claim under 
the policy.
 
I havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable to Mr A.
 
Mr A could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially.
 
Whether or not NatWest advised Mr A to take PPI, they did have to give Mr A clear 
information so that he could make an informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. Its 
possible the information NatWest gave Mr A wasnt as clear as it should have been. This in 
itself doesnt mean that the PPI was mis-sold as I have to consider whether better 
information would have put Mr A off taking the PPI out. And based on the evidence available 
to me, I dont think it would have. I say this for the same reasons I think PPI was suitable for 
him.
I understand Mr A is concerned as to why other complaints have been upheld but his hasnt. 
However, each case is decided on its own merits and from the evidence available to me I 
cant say that Mr A was mis-sold PPI and so I am unable to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman