DRN-2349146
The complaint
Mr B complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (trading as Portafina at the time) gave 
him unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension scheme into a self-
invested personal pension plan (SIPP) and invest in unsuitable investments. 
What happened
Mr B was a member of a public sector DB pension scheme. At the time of advice, Mr Bs 
circumstances were that:
he was married, in his mid- fifties with adult children; 
he was working in a manual role and his wife was self-employed;
they had an interest only mortgage with around £40,000 equity in the property;
they had loans and credit card debts of around £13,000 to £14,000. The monthly 
payment for these was around £450 to £500 per month;
he wanted to take tax free cash (TFC) from his pension to pay off a loan and 
credit card debts, but didnt want to take an income;
he had no disposable income when looking at his and his wifes joint earnings 
and outgoings; and 
he didnt want to take out any further finance to clear his debts.
Following a fact find interview in April 2016, Portafina produced two Transfer Value Analysis 
(TVAS) reports covering different periods of membership. It recorded Mr Bs main objective 
as being to access TFC to pay off his debts. It contacted the administrators of Mr Bs DB 
pension scheme to obtain relevant information about his scheme benefits to produce the 
reports. The critical yields calculated for a joint life annuity to replace Mr Bs guaranteed 
benefits under the DB scheme were 15% and 13.7% per annum.
Portafina didnt recommend that Mr B transfer out of the DB scheme. This was because of 
the required annual investment growth needed (critical yield), just to match his guaranteed 
benefits in the DB scheme. 
Portafina treated Mr B as an insistent client. It said this was on the basis that Mr B still 
wanted to go ahead with the transfer into the SIPP to meet his objective of accessing 
TFC.
Mr B complained to Portafina. It didnt uphold his complaint. He brought his complaint to 
our service. Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt recommend that it was 
upheld. He concluded, in summary, that Portafina had complied with guidance from the 
regulator about dealing with insistent clients. He also said that looking at Portafinas 
dealings with Mr B, he considered that it had acted fairly and reasonably when treating him 
as an insistent client. Further that the investments recommended post transfer, didnt look 
unsuitable for a balanced investor. 
Mr B, through his representative, said in response, in summary:
Mr B didnt approach Portafina with a view to transferring to that specific personal 
pension scheme. Portafina recommended that scheme;
Portafina tailored its Suitability Report to discuss the transfer to that scheme;
a business should use terms that are fair and not misleading. Portafinas 
Suitability Report was confusing, contradictory and misleading;
Portafina said it wasnt recommending the transfer and was treating him as an 
insistent client, but, it then made a recommendation to transfer to this pension 
scheme;
Portafina had a conversation with Mr B prior to the report being issued to treat 
him as an insistent client and failed to use language and terms that he could 
understand;
Portafina didnt explain to Mr B what being an insistent client meant and the 
consequences of it;
he didnt understand what the critical yield was and didnt have sufficient 
understanding to be treated as an insistent client; and
Portafina did not follow FCA guidelines properly.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Bs complaint comes to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigators view that this complaint should not be upheld, I will explain 
why.
Recommendation  not to transfer
In April 2016, Portafina wrote to Mr B setting out its recommendation. According to the 
regulators guidance, the starting point for transfers out of DB schemes is that it would 
not be suitable to recommend it. Portafina didnt recommend transferring here, and I 
think it clearly explained the reasons for that advice.
I consider that the advice not to transfer, was suitable in Mr Bs circumstances.
Guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority  insistent client
As our investigator explained, when looking at complaints such as Mr Bs, we look for 
evidence that the client was insistent, and that the business provided clear, fair and not 
misleading information to enable the customer to make an informed choice. To show 
whether a business has handled a situation fairly and reasonably, we take into account 
whether the business followed relevant guidance from the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) about what to do in situations like this.
Portafina said that the relevant guidance that applied at the time was Factsheet 35. This said that firms should ensure that advice  is clear  and suitable  for its clients,  and that for 
insistent  clients,  it is clear  that their actions  are against  the firm's  advice.  Further,  the 
risks  of the alternative  course  of action  should  be made  clear.  Portafina  said it fully 
adopted  the approach  set out in this Factsheet.  Based  on what  Ive seen,  I think  it did.
I think Portafina provided clear and fair information to enable Mr B to make an informed 
choice. I cant see that that information was misleading or put in complicated terms so Mr 
B couldnt understand it. Looked at as a whole, across a range of communications, 
Portafina told Mr B that he would be giving up valuable guaranteed benefits. It told him 
about the death benefits in his current scheme. It told him about how much his investment 
would need to grow just to match the benefits he already had. It told him on quite a few 
different occasions that it didnt recommend the transfer. It suggested he obtain debt 
counselling advice before proceeding - to understand any other options he may have for 
meeting his objective of clearing his debts, including restructuring his loan. Portafina 
recommended he discuss his situation with the Citizens Advice Bureau. 
I can see that Portafina asked Mr B in his words to acknowledge that: 
what he was choosing to do was not recommended; and
that it was actioning his transfer at his request, to meet his objectives.
I think Portafina took steps to ensure that Mr B was aware that it was only actioning his 
transfer request because that was something, he was insisting it do, even though it had 
advised him against it.
Acting upon Mr Bs instructions
The correspondence from Portafina said:
If you still wish to go-ahead with pension release, we can still help you with this. As this 
is against our recommendation, we now need you to complete and return the insistent 
client form confirming you are aware of the benefits you would be giving up.
The letter asked him to complete and return the enclosed option forms.
Mr B signed and completed a form as an Insistent Client. This referred to  Accessing 
your pension fund early. He ticked the boxes to acknowledge:
he was giving up a guaranteed pension income and a TFC sum at age 65; and
transferring form his DB scheme was against the advice of Portafina.
The Option 1 Form, Mr B signed said he wished to take Option 1 - TFC of around £14,000 
with the residual amount of around £43,000 being invested to provide an income in 
retirement. The Option 1 Form, also acknowledged that he would be treated as an 
insistent client. Mr B was also asked to explain why he wanted to access his pension 
early, when this was against the recommendation made by Portafina. 
In handwriting, the form read:
Our plans for retirement involve reaching retirement age with no debt, no mortgage or 
other financial outlay. My wife runs a business which we both intend to work in after 
reaching retirement age, therefore out intention is not to fully retire, instead we will 
continue to produce an income together. We have also taken into consideration other 
financial advice and ours and my decision is to access my pension fund early.I think it was made clear to Mr B that by being an insistent client he was going against 
Portafinas recommendation and that his decision to access TFC from his pension and 
then invest the residual fund for income, may not be in his best financial interests. I think 
he was provided with enough clear and fair information to make an informed choice and to 
know that he would be responsible for that choice.
Suitability Report 
Portafina issued a Suitability Report in May 2016. This report again told Mr B that 
transferring out of his DB scheme was against its advice and it would treat him as an 
insistent client, if he wanted to proceed to transfer. 
As Mr B had opted for TFC and to invest his residual fund, Portafina recommended he 
transfer to a SIPP and that his portfolio included a mix of assets including equities, fixed 
interest securities and property, to meet his balanced attitude towards investment risk 
Enclosed with the Suitability Report was a typed declaration form which said:
I want to proceed with the transfer as my main priority is to release tax free cash to pay off 
debt. 
It also said that Portafina didnt recommend Mr B transfer out of his DB scheme and gave 
details of the required critical yields and the loss of a guaranteed retirement income. Mr B 
signed this declaration form in May 2016.
Based on everything I have seen, in my view, Mr B was given clear and fair information 
from Portafina about why it considered the option to transfer was not suitable in Mr Bs 
circumstances. This information was provided on more than one occasion and in a clear 
way, in my view, for him to consider his options and to understand what he was giving up if 
he transferred against advice.
Ive noted the statement Mr B completed in his own handwriting about why he was taking 
the option he did. It is clear that he had thought about his and his wifes plans for 
retirement, continuing to work and how he wanted to take TFC, investing his fund to take 
an income later. I think Mr B ought reasonably to have been in a  position to make an 
informed choice based on the information Portafina gave him.
Attitude to risk and investments made
I understand Portafina assessed Mr Bs attitude to investment risk using a risk 
profiler. The outcome of that was that it showed that he had a balanced attitude 
towards risk. I cant see that this was an incorrect assessment of his attitude to 
risk.
Looking at the investments made, Mr B invested 60/40 between equities and lower risk 
investments. I consider this suitable for a person with a balanced attitude to risk.
I therefore do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Overall, I think Portafina provided him with 
suitable advice and the information it provided was clear, fair and not misleading, so that Mr 
B could make and informed choice about how he wanted to proceed.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman