DRN-3093968
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt settled a claim under 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy that covered them between 
19 February 2020 and 18 February 2021. The insurer was URV. Mr and Mrs R were due to 
travel to Spain on 13 August 2020.
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential international 
travel. And despite of any subsequent changes, the same advice was in force for Spain on 
13 August 2020 when Mr and Mrs R were due to travel. At this time, there was also a 
requirement to self-isolate for 14 days when returning to the UK from Spain.
Mr and Mrs Rs flight went ahead, but they didnt travel. They say this was because of the 
FCDO advice against non-essential travel, as well as the requirement to self-isolate on their 
return. Mr R said his employer wouldnt have allowed this. So, Mr and Mrs R made a claim to 
URV.
URV declined the claim because the reason for cancellation wasnt covered under the policy 
terms. Unhappy with URVs decision, Mr and Mrs R brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Having done so, she didnt think 
URV had done anything wrong when it declined the claim. She said this was because 
Mr and Mrs Rs policy didnt provide cover in their situation. Additionally, she said that the 
cancellation section of the policy highlighted a specific exclusion for claims made because of 
FCDO advice. 
Our investigator thought it was up to Mr and Mrs R to make sure they had the cover they 
needed. And if they needed a policy that covered cancellation due to changes in FCDO 
advice, its likely they couldve found another policy on the market which wouldve covered 
this situation.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, they said that they 
took out the policy before Covid-19 was known, so why would they have looked for an 
alternative policy.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that 
insurers should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken 
these rules and guidance into account when considering this complaint. Ive also had regard 
to the relevant law (including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).  
Firstly, there may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for 
changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think it 
was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict application of the 
policy terms and conditions. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask 
URV to do it here. Ill explain why.
The investigator explained in detail the information thats set out in the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) as well as the policy terms and conditions. The IPID, which is 
designed to make sure customers have essential information about the policy in a way thats 
easy to understand, says on page two that You will not be covered if you travel to a country 
or region when the Foreign and Commonwealth Office had advised against all travel or all 
but essential travel.
The general conditions and exclusions on page 16 of the policy terms excludes You 
travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise against all but 
essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at the time of your departure. 
This means that Mr and Mrs Rs policy wouldnt have covered them if they travelled against 
the FCDO advice.
The cancellation section of the policy is on page 17 under a heading Your pre-travel policy  
if you are unable to go on your trip. It sets out the circumstances under which URV will pay 
for pre-paid costs, which cannot be recovered from any other source. These are if the 
policyholder is unable to travel because;
you or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, injured or 
dies before the trip starts.
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
you or a travel companion have been made redundant.
of the requirements of HM forces.
Underneath, on the same page, it says: 
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section due to; 
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office applicable at the 
time of your departure.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Mr and Mrs R cancelled their trip because FCDO advised against all but essential 
travel to the destination they were due to travel, and because they wouldve been 
required to self-isolate after returning to the UK. Neither of these situations are 
something thats covered under the terms and conditions of the policy, as theyre not 
a specific or listed insured event.The cancellation section of the policy specifically excludes cover due to FCDO advice 
at the point of departure.
No insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what 
level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Although 
Mr and Mrs R may have been in the position of having no cover under this policy if 
they travelled and also having no cover if they cancelled, I think these exclusions are 
clearly and transparently set out in the terms and conditions of this policy.
It was up to Mr and Mrs R to ensure they had the level of cover they required to meet 
their needs and if they wanted cover for cancellation due to changes in FCDO 
advice. And its likely they couldve found another policy on the market which 
wouldve covered the situation they found themselves in. I know Mr and Mrs R have 
questioned why they wouldve done that when they bought the policy before Covid-
19 was known. But the cover for changes in FCDO advice isnt something restricted 
to Covid-19 only.
Ive also considered the other sections of Mr and Mr Rs policy, but I dont think they 
had any cover for the circumstances they found themselves in.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R but I dont think their claim is covered under the terms 
and conditions of the policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask URV to pay their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman