DRN-2120954
The complaint
Ms H complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt treat her fairly when she had some 
financial problems. A payment went out of her bank account sooner than she was expecting, 
so she wanted it to give her a temporary overdraft so she still had access to some funds  
but it refused.
What happened
Ms H banks with Nationwide. She also has an insurance policy with a firm Ill call B. Her 
regular payment to B was due on 1 April 2020. But if the payment was taken, she wouldnt 
have much left in her account to pay for food and other essentials. 
She tried to get B not to take, and then refund, the payment. It wouldnt do that. Im dealing 
with a complaint about B, which Ill cover in a separate decision.
Once the payment to B went out, Ms H got in touch with Nationwide. In the past, its helped 
her by granting her a temporary emergency overdraft, and she wanted it to do the same 
again this time. But it wouldnt  so Ms H complained.
Ms H explained that she is vulnerable and has a mental health condition. She said that 
Nationwide had an obligation to support her and offer help. She said the Nationwide staff 
were rude and dismissive.
Nationwide said that overdrafts werent available on the basic bank account she had. It said 
while it did what it could to help vulnerable customers, it didnt think this was the right way to 
help her. She would need to talk to B about possibly refunding the payment, and changing 
the day it left her account in future. And it didnt agree its staff were rude or dismissive  it 
said they had dealt appropriately with what were challenging calls from Ms H.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly, so the complaint comes to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to Ms Hs calls with Nationwide. She explained at first that she was unhappy 
about the payment being taken and wanted the money back. Nationwide explained that 
wasnt possible.
This is because it was a regular payment for a service Ms H had agreed to. She wasnt 
disputing that she was Bs customer, she just didnt want the payment taken at that time. 
And she had previously given permission for regular payments to be taken from her bank 
card. So there was no basis on which Nationwide could recall the payment from B or use the 
chargeback dispute procedure.
Ms H then asked Nationwide to give her an overdraft to cover the amount taken out of her 
account  just under £30.
Ms H has what Nationwide calls its FlexBasic bank account  a basic bank account which 
only offers certain features. It doesnt include an overdraft facility. So its not generally 
possible for an overdraft to be arranged on this account.
Nationwide explained that if she wasnt happy with the payment taken  or wanted to change 
the day of the month it left her account  she would need to take that up with B.
I think Nationwide treated Ms H fairly. Her situation was considered both by the team that 
deals with payment disputes and by its specialist support team. It explained what options 
she had, and the limits of what it could do. 
I dont think Nationwide was required to offer Ms H an overdraft. One wasnt available on her 
account. And by giving her an overdraft, Ms H would go into debt. She still had funds in her 
account even after the payment to B had gone out. While it might have made an exception in 
the past, I dont think that meant it had to do so again. Nationwide explored with Ms H what 
other options she might have. I think this was fair in all the circumstances.
Ive also considered how Nationwide dealt with Ms H when she rang in. Ive listened carefully 
to the calls. Its clear Ms H was upset about what had happened, and worried about her 
finances and how she would support herself  and about her health. Her upset and worries 
led to her being distressed on the calls. The calls were difficult both for Ms H and for the 
advisers she spoke to. But I dont think they were handled inappropriately. The staff 
members couldnt give Ms H what she wanted, but they explained why that was, and what 
else could be done, clearly and sympathetically.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman