DRN-2709905
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the end of contract service she received in relation to a car that was 
supplied to her through a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited (BFS). 
What happened
On 21 September 2016 Mrs T acquired a brand-new car through a hire purchase (HP) 
agreement with BFS. The purchase price of the car was £19,337. Mrs T paid a deposit of 
£2,641.28 which meant that the credit agreement was for £16,695.72 payable over 48 
months.
In August 2020 Mrs T contacted BFS to arrange the return of her car. BFS confirmed the 
return arrangements and the car was collected on 9 September 2020 by a collection agent 
(TCA). - Mrs T says she hadnt received any notification from BFS that her car had been 
returned or that the hire purchase agreement had ended. Shed only received a condition 
report from TCA when the car had been collected.
A few days later BFS sent a text message to Mrs T saying that as they hadnt heard from 
her, they were assuming she was keeping the car, and that she should arrange to pay the 
final balloon payment of the HP agreement. Mrs T tried contacting BFS but was unable to 
get through. Mrs T says she was worried that her car had been fraudulently collected. 
The following Monday Mrs T was able to contact BFS who confirmed that the text was sent 
in error. However, Mrs T raised a complaint about the text message and complained that 
shed not received any written confirmation from BFS that the car had been collected and the 
agreement completed.
On 28 September 2020, as Mrs T hadnt received any written confirmation that her 
agreement had ended, she contacted BFS again to request it. During a phone call to BFS 
Mrs T was offered £100 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. Mrs T says she 
accepted this on the basis that shed be told why she wasnt notified of the contract end and 
what theyd do to improve their service to avoid a recurrence. 
On 30 September 2020 BFS provided their final response letter (FRL) to Mrs T. However, 
Mrs T felt it didnt address the issue or provide details of how this would be prevented from 
recurring. Mrs T said that although her concerns had been addressed by BFS to her 
husband over the phone, she still hadnt received the compensation offer and had only 
received written confirmation from BFS that her agreement had been discharged a week 
later. 
On 23 October 2020 Mrs T brought her complaint to us here. She explained to our 
investigator that the situation has had a significant impact on her, causing her stress and 
concern about her credit file before seeing that it had been updated. Mrs T also explained 
that shed since received the £100 compensation into her bank account on 15 January 2021 
but hadnt received confirmation of this from BFS. Mrs T also explained that the main point of 
her concerns for us to consider was about how BFS handled her complaint and how they 
dealt with it. Our investigator looked into Mrs Ts concerns and didnt uphold her complaint 
and didnt think BFS needed to do anything more. 
Mrs T wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked that her concerns be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
From the information provided its clear to me that Mrs T was sent a text message in error 
relating to her end of contract balloon payment. Mrs T has confirmed this in what shes said 
to us, and BFS has acknowledged this in their FRL and case summary. So, I dont see this 
as being in dispute here.
What seems to be in dispute is how BFS resolved and responded to Mrs Ts complaint, and 
the impact all of this has had on Mrs T. Following our investigators view, Mrs T clarified why 
she remains unhappy, Ive noted her main concerns below:
1. BFS handling of her complaint
2. BFS are responsible for the error which led to the text being sent
3. BFS hasnt fairly compensated her
BFS complaint handling
Mrs T has raised concerns about the way BFS have handled the complaint against them. 
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity in its own right. Nor is it one of the specified 
non-regulated activities that Im able to deal with under our compulsory jurisdiction (DISP 
Rule 2.3.1R). And so, Im unable to look into the specifics of this.
My focus in this decision is on the underlying financial service being complained about, 
which is the administration of the HP agreement. Whilst I can look at whats fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances, in respect of complaints relating more generally 
to commercial practices and quality standards, as Mrs T has mentioned, that is likely more 
appropriately directed at the regulator. 
are BFS responsible for the error that led to the text being sent 
BFS explained that at the point they sent the text message to Mrs T, they hadnt yet received 
the information from TCA that the car had been collected from her. BFS has apologised for 
this, and I think its right that they have, because the evidence suggests it was an unintended 
error which caused a degree of inconvenience for Mrs T. Its uncertain from the information 
provided why BFS hadnt found out sooner that the car had been collected by TCA, or what 
theyve decided to do to prevent a similar situation recurring. However, What I am certain of 
is that the process that BFS had in place had failed which led to Mrs T receiving a text 
message from them. So, Im satisfied that BFS are at fault here. I recognise that Mrs T is seeking a fuller explanation from BFS about what went wrong and 
how they were going to prevent a recurrence. However, Im not persuaded that providing this 
information is necessary, in order to resolve what went wrong in Mrs Ts case.  
Its not within my remit to ask BFS to change their internal procedures or provide 
recommendations in relation to them. I say this because however BFS choose to conduct 
their relationship with TCA isnt material to putting things right for Mrs T. What I believe is of 
significant relevance to Mrs Ts complaint is that the service BFS continues to provide to her, 
in relation to her agreement with them, is put back on track, and that she is appropriately 
compensated. So, in the circumstances relating to resolving this complaint, Im not 
persuaded that its necessary for BFS to provide any further explanation to Mrs T, and so I 
wont be instructing BFS to do so.
have BFS fairly compensated Mrs T
Mrs T has said that this whole experience has had a stressful impact on her, particularly 
around the time when she received the text message, where she believed she may have 
been a victim of fraud. Mrs T says she believes she should be compensated with £1000 to 
reflect this. I acknowledge the worry that Mrs T would have experienced prior to realising 
that the text message was a mistake. However, I dont see that the impact on her warrants 
more compensation than what BFS has already offered and paid to her. 
On 12 September 2020 Mrs T received the text message from BFS, by the following 
Monday, she had verbal confirmation from BFS that it was sent in error, and around two 
weeks later it had been confirmed to her in writing in BFS FRL, with the an offer of 
compensation. So, although the text would have caused her some distress, within a matter 
of days Mrs T would have been reasonably aware that this was an error by BFS. BFS paid 
Mrs T £100 for the stress and inconvenience caused. From the evidence provided Im 
satisfied that this was a fair offer for the mistake theyd made and for the impact it had on 
Mrs T. I think BFS actions were reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont be instructing 
BFS to pay any more compensation to Mrs T or do anything more in relation to this 
complaint.
other concerns raised by Mrs T
Mrs T says that the FRL provided by BFS was inadequate. Mrs T says there was no 
signature on the FRL, no detailed explanation of what went wrong and what BFS had done 
to ensure it wouldnt happen again. Mrs T also said she accepted the £100 compensation 
because she believed that BFS would provide that information to her. Mrs T says it was 
important to her because the issue had caused her a significant amount of stress which she 
wanted to ensure wouldnt be repeated for anyone else. 
Having considered the circumstances surrounding this complaint, I cant fairly say that the 
FRL was inadequate or unreasonable. The root of Mrs Ts complaint was from the text 
message that had been incorrectly sent to her. So, in addressing this within their FRL and 
confirming that the issue had been resolved, I cant say that theyve acted unfairly. And in 
relation to there being no signature at the end of the letter, I dont see this as necessarily 
making the FRL inadequate. I can see that the response had been provided with the name 
and job title of the person who had authored the letter, as a point of contact. So, in the 
circumstances Im satisfied that this is reasonable and appropriate. I dont think BFS acted 
unreasonably here and so I wont be instructing them to do anything more in relation to this. 
I could see from the information provided that Mrs T believes she experienced delays at 
various points in her interaction with BFS. For example, during the email contact she had 
with them in September 2020, and the delay in her receiving the £100 compensation payment despite being given a timescale of ten days. However, BFS has already apologised 
for what went wrong and have since paid her the compensation. Ive also not seen any 
evidence that Mrs T has lost out as a result of any delays, for example incurring costs as a 
result. So, I wont be instructing BFS to do anything further in relation to this.
My final decision
To settle the complaint BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited has paid £100 compensation 
to Mrs T. I think this is fair in all the circumstances. So, Im not going to ask BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman