DRN-4369897
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T have complained about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim 
under a home emergency policy.
References to UKI include companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T contacted UKIs home emergency provider when they found a water leak in 
their home. An engineer visited the following day and found that a drain needed to be 
jetwashed, which he was unable to access on his own. He said a part also needed to be 
ordered. The drain was jetwashed on another visit, but Mr T and Mrs T chased multiple 
times for the new part. A couple of weeks later, the home emergency provider said the claim 
wasnt covered, as the policy didnt deal with soil stacks.
Mr T and Mrs T complained about a range of issues with their claim. UKI replied and said it 
had looked at two previous claims that were undeclared when the policy was taken out and 
needed to be investigated further. The buildings claims team also spoke to Mr T and Mrs T 
about why it couldnt fix the leak. They had also been correctly advised to obtain further 
information from UKIs home emergency provider. It offered £100 compensation because the 
claims team had failed to return a phone call as promised.
UKIs home emergency company also responded to the complaint. It said it had missed its 
service level agreement on when its engineer attended. Although the engineers jetwashed 
the manhole, Mr T and Mrs T reported the issue was still ongoing. It then took a further week 
for it to confirm there was no cover for the work required. It offered £135 compensation for 
the issues with the claim, the poor service and the distress and inconvenience caused.
When Mr T and Mrs T complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. She 
said there were a range of issues with how the claim had been handled and that these had a 
particular impact on Mr T because he was vulnerable. She also said there wasnt a relevant 
exclusion under the policy that seemed to apply to the claim. But she said there wasnt 
evidence to show the floor wouldnt have been damaged anyway, even if the engineer had 
attended sooner. She said UKI should pay Mr T and Mrs T £72 for their plumbers invoice to 
fix the issue and increase the total amount of compensation to £500 to recognise the impact 
on Mr T and Mrs T, particularly because of Mr Ts vulnerabilities.
As Mr T and Mrs T didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive listened to the phone call when Mrs T first contacted the home emergency company, 
which I will call C, to request an engineer. During the call, Mrs T explained that her husband 
was vulnerable and asked for the claim to be prioritised. The engineer didnt visit until the 
late evening the following day. When the home emergency company replied to the 
complaint, it accepted it had breached its service level agreement for sending an engineer. 
From the records, I can see C marked on its records that Mr T was vulnerable and that it 
was urgent. I cant see clear evidence this information was passed on to the contractors who 
were asked to attend. Im also aware Mr T and Mrs T have said the first contractor who 
visited wasnt aware Mr T was vulnerable. Looking at the engineers visit notes, I saw that by 
the end of the visit, he was aware Mr T was vulnerable and highlighted that the issue needed 
to be sorted as soon as possible, as a result.
The drain blockage was cleared the following day but a new part the first engineer had 
already identified as required still needed to be quoted for. I note that when Mrs T first spoke 
to C, she was told that if parts were needed it would take up to one day to be approved and 
up to three days for it to be supplied. But that isnt what happened as part of this claim. It 
took several days of chasing both by Mr T and Mrs T and C to try and progress this. Im 
aware Mr T and Mrs T also told C that Mr T had tripped over because of the trip hazards at 
the property and he was having to walk downstairs at night to use the toilet because of the 
ongoing claim, which was an issue because of his health condition. Eleven days after the 
first engineers visit, C told Mr T and Mrs T that the rest of the claim wasnt covered.
Ive thought about whether it was fair for the rest of the claim to be declined. UKI has said it 
was declined because there wasnt cover for soil pipes under the policy. In the records, I can 
see that C asked a contractor for more details on where the part would be fitted and whether 
it was internal to the kitchen. There was then a discussion about a cupboard potentially 
needing to be removed. This then went from discussing internal work that needed to be 
carried out to fix the issue, which from my reading of the policy was covered, to telling Mr T 
and Mrs T there was no cover. In my view, I havent seen evidence that showed it was 
reasonable to apply an exclusion or that there was a relevant exclusion that applied for this 
claim. Mr T and Mrs T arranged for their own plumber to carry out the work. So, I think UKI 
needs to pay for the work carried out, which cost £72. Mr T and Mrs T should provide UKI 
with the invoice.
Mr T and Mrs T have also said the delays in C dealing with the claim caused damage to their 
floor. Ive thought about this, including looking at the photos provided, and I dont think I can 
fairly say the delays in the claim were the main cause of the damage. There was already an 
escape of water before Mr T and Mrs T contacted C and its my understanding this had been 
happening over a period of time. So, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that there 
wouldnt have been any damage, or a need to make a buildings claim, if the home 
emergency claim had been dealt with more promptly. So, I dont require UKI to do anything 
further in relation to that part of the complaint.
Ive also thought about compensation. Im aware Mr T and Mrs T dont think the 
compensation offered by UKI and C or recommended by our investigator was enough. Ive 
considered the full details of what happened. This includes the delay in sending the first 
engineer and in C making a decision about the rest of the claim. Im also aware of the 
particular impact on Mr T because of his vulnerability. Mr T and Mrs T were advised not to 
use the water supply in part of their house, which meant they couldnt use the washing 
machine and Mr T had to move about a lot more to access a bathroom, despite his health 
condition. 
Im aware C offered Mr T and Mrs T alternative accommodation, but they declined this 
because of Mr Ts health issues. However, they went to stay with family some distance away for a few days while the claim continued, which involved additional costs such as fuel. Mr T 
and Mrs T have also described the level of stress and upset they felt because of having to 
chase C for updates and that this was added to because of Mr Ts health issues.
Ive thought carefully about what happened and the level of compensation this service would 
normally consider appropriate in these types of circumstances. In my view, a total of £500 
compensation more fairly recognises the impact on Mr T and Mrs T. So, I require UKI to pay 
this amount.
Putting things right
UKI should reimburse Mr T and Mrs T the £72 plumbers invoice and pay them a total of 
£500 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require U 
K Insurance Limited (UKI) to:
Reimburse Mr T and Mrs T £72 for the plumbers invoice, subject to them providing U K 
Insurance Limited with suitable evidence of this.
Pay Mr T and Mrs T a total of £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman