DRN-2091614
The complaint
Mr D complains that Europa Group Limited (trading as MotorCycle Direct) auto-renewed his 
motorbike insurance without his consent. He also complains that he didnt receive a renewal 
notice and Europa werent following his preference of communicating by post. This meant he 
had no time to review the market to find a better quote, and no time to cancel the policy.
What happened
Mr D got his motorbike insurance through Europa for several years. In March 2019, Mr Ds 
motorbike insurance was automatically renewed. In April 2019, Mr D contacted Europa as he 
wanted to cancel his insurance policy. Mr D didnt believe hed agreed to the policy being 
automatically renewed. After Europa explained that cancellation fees would apply, Mr D 
asked for a full refund on the basis that he didnt receive any renewal documents. 
Later in April 2019, Mr D complained to Europa. Mr D wasnt happy as Europa hadnt made 
post his primary contact method when he asked for this. He said that Europa hadnt removed 
the auto-renewal feature of the premium, which he said he had asked it to do. Mr D also said 
that Europa hadnt provided him with the renewal documents on time. This meant that he 
couldnt consider the new premium or try to find a cheaper option. Mr D also said that 
Europa didnt provide him with the documents after he called and hadnt complied with the 
Insurance Conduct of Business (ICOBS) requirements. He wanted it to reduce his premium 
in line with the best renewal quote possible.
Europa provided its final response to the complaint in June 2019, partially upholding it. It 
apologised to Mr D that he had not received a copy of his renewal documents by post until 
he raised a subject access request. Europa also said sorry for the difficulties he experienced 
getting through to it on the phone. Europa said that during a phone call on 23 March 2018 Mr 
D spoke with an agent who confirmed his email address, where Mr D said he was happy for 
it to contact him by email. It changed Mr Ds preference to post as a result of the complaint. 
Europa also couldnt find a request from Mr D to opt out of auto-renewal. But it said it would 
remove this for him so that any future policies wouldnt auto-renew. Europa also confirmed 
that it sent a copy of the renewal documents to Mr D by email on 7 March 2019.
Europa said that itd be happy to consider a price match for any like for like policy Mr D was 
able to find. Mr D contacted Europa in September 2019 as he wanted to take advantage of 
this. Due to the time which had passed since Europa had sent their response, Europa 
werent able to provide this to Mr D. Mr D wasnt happy with how hed been treated, so he 
referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He said Mr D had received 
previous renewal information by e-mail. He said Mr D is on record during the 23 March 2018 
phone call as understanding the auto-renewal process. Therefore, Mr D should have known 
that his policy would auto-renew. Our investigator could find no record of Mr D asking for 
contact by post or the cancellation of auto-renewal. He said Europa had sent the renewal 
notice to Mr Ds confirmed e-mail address ahead of the auto-renewal date. Although Mr D 
said he didnt get the e-mail, our investigator didnt think this was Europas fault. Although, in 
the end, Europa couldnt honour its promise of a price match, our investigator thought this 
was reasonable. This is because Mr D hadnt asked for the price match until September 
2019, although he had been on cover since March 2019. 
Our investigator expected Europa to remove Mr Ds auto-renewal.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators findings as he felt it was inconsistent that the 
investigator thought the offer of a price match was fair, but then didnt make Europa honour 
the offer. He requested an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to comment on every point Mr D made, although I have read and listened to 
everything both he and Europa sent us. Instead Ill focus on the key issues he raised.
Europa set out the auto-renewal process in its terms of business. Mr D also acknowledged 
that he knew about the auto-renewal process in his March 2018 renewal call. In that call, Mr 
D also confirmed his e-mail address and separately asked if his documents would be          
e-mailed to him. This e-mail address appears to have been successfully used for several 
years.
Mr D said he didnt receive the March 2019 renewal notice from Europa. But I dont think this 
is its fault. From the records Ive seen Im satisfied that Europa dispatched the renewal 
documents to Mr D in the normal way. Also, Ive seen no evidence that Mr D had asked 
Europa to contact him by post, or to cancel the auto-renewal process.
So, I think Europa reasonably gave Mr D information about the auto-renewal process. Mr D 
doesnt appear to have told Europa that he didnt want to auto-renew. So, I dont think 
Europa made a mistake when it auto-renewed the policy. Mr D doesnt appear to have told 
Europa he wanted to change his preference from e-mail to post until he complained. So, I 
dont think Europa made a mistake when it e-mailed his renewal notice to his confirmed e-
mail address.
Europa offered to price match a cheaper policy. But Mr D didnt try to take up their offer until 
nearly 6 months after the policy had started. Therefore, I think it was reasonable that Europa 
couldnt honour that offer at that stage. I dont agree with Mr D that it was inconsistent of 
Europa to have offered a price match and then withdraw that offer, because of the time that 
had elapsed.
However, Europa does need to update its records to reflect Mr Ds request to remove auto-
renewal from his policy.
I can understand that this process has been stressful and time-consuming for Mr D. But I 
havent found reasons to blame Europa for this and I havent found it to have been in breach 
of the ICOBS regulations as Mr D suggested. So, I dont think Europa needs to offer Mr D 
any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Joanne Occleshaw
Ombudsman