DRN-4283058
The complaint
Mrs C complains that NewDay Ltd was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Mrs C was provided with a credit card by NewDay in June 2016. The initial credit limit was 
£250. Mrs C requested a credit limit increase in January 2017 which was provided, 
increasing her credit limit to £1,000. Four further credit limit increases were applied to her 
credit card which resulted in her credit limit increasing to £5,200 in August 2018.
Mrs C says that she was only 18 when the credit card was provided and that she had no 
income and was reliant on universal credit. She says she has struggled with money and only 
made the minimum repayments on the credit card. She says NewDay didnt carry out 
adequate checks before lending and acted irresponsibly by providing her with so much 
credit. She contacted NewDay and it refunded her £503 which it sent directly to the debt 
company that now owns her debt. Mrs C says this didnt help her and she didnt think that 
NewDay had done enough to address her complaint.
NewDay issued a final response letter in May 2022. It said that it considered a range of data 
before lending, including information from the credit reference agencies and the information 
provided through the application process. It didnt accept that it had done anything wrong by 
providing Mrs C with the credit card. It said that checks were then carried out before the 
credit limit increases were applied. It did however uphold Mrs Cs complaint in regard to the 
final credit limit increase that took place in September 2018. It refunded her around £503 in 
interest and fees, and this was used to reduce her outstanding balance. Following Mrs Cs 
referral of her complaint to this service, NewDay reconsidered the complaint and reiterated 
its decision in its final response letter and said it only agreed to the final credit limit increase 
being upheld.
Our investigator didnt think that NewDay had done enough to resolve this complaint. She 
thought NewDay had carried out proportionate checks before providing the credit card with 
the initial credit limit of £250 but she thought further checks should have taken place before 
the credit limit increases were applied. However, she noted that Mrs C hadnt provided 
copies of her bank statements or credit report and so she said she didnt have evidence to 
say what proportionate checks would have shown.
Our investigator noted the account information provided by NewDay and said this suggested 
Mrs C had managed her account well until April 2018. After this she thought there were 
signs that Mrs C may be experiencing financial difficulties. She also noted that the size of the 
credit limit increase applied in May 2018 brought Mrs Cs credit limit to £4,000 and she 
thought this was high given Mrs Cs income. Because of this our investigator upheld this 
complaint from the credit limit increase in May 2018.
NewDay didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that there had only been one cash 
withdrawal on Mrs Cs card before the offer to increase the credit limit to £4,000 was made 
and there was nothing to show that the new credit limit would be unaffordable for Mrs C. 
NewDay said without bank statements for the period it could only be assumed what Mrs Cs 
financial position was.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings are set out below.
I have looked at the information gathered as part of Mrs Cs application in June 2016. This 
recorded her as being employed with a gross annual income of £10,000. I note Mrs Cs 
comment that she was only 18 at the time and so while I do not find her credit report 
contained information that would have raised concerns, I also accept it was likely to have 
contained limited information at the time. That said, given the initial credit limit was set at 
£250, I do not find that the checks carried out were unreasonable and I do not find I can say 
NewDay acted irresponsibly by providing Mrs C with the credit card.
The credit limit was increased on Mrs Cs credit card on five occasions. NewDay upheld 
Mrs Cs complaint in regard to the final credit limit increase to £5,200 in September 2018 and 
refunded her the interest, charges and fees in relation to this. I find this reasonable, however 
I also find that Mrs Cs credit file should be amended to reflect this uphold once she has 
repaid her outstanding balance which I have set out below.
As NewDay upheld the final credit limit increase I have focused on whether the first four 
credit limit increases were reasonable.
The first credit limit increase was requested by Mrs C in January 2017. By this time NewDay 
had four months worth of data about Mrs Cs credit card usage. Having looked at this, Mrs C 
had remained within her credit limit and was making repayments above the minimum 
requirements. I do not find her account raised any concerns and I do not find it unreasonable 
that NewDay relied on its account management and other internal information alongside the 
credit reference agency data and accepted this request to increase Mrs Cs credit limit to 
£1,000.
Mrs C was offered a further credit limit increase to £2,000 in April 2017 which was accepted 
in May 2017 and then a further increase in October 2017 which was accepted in November 
2017. This brought her credit limit to £2,750. This meant that Mrs Cs credit limit was now 
significantly higher than the initial limit provided less than a year and a half earlier. That said, 
I accept that the initial credit limit was relatively low. I have looked through Mrs Cs account 
data for this period and I can see that she had made a couple of cash advances, but I do not 
find this was enough to raise any concerns. Mrs C was keeping her account within the credit 
limit (and rarely approaching the limit) and was generally paying more than the minimum 
required repayments. The information received from the credit reference agencies didnt 
raise any serious concerns, so without any evidence to the contrary, I do not find that I can 
say NewDay was wrong to provide these credit limit increases.
In April 2018, Mrs C was offered a further credit limit increase which was accepted in May 
2018. This brought Mrs Cs credit limit to £4,000. While I do not find that Mrs Cs account 
management or other data received by NewDay prior to this increase raised any serious 
concerns that Mrs C might be struggling financially, given Mrs Cs initial annual income was 
recorded as £10,000, and this increase resulted in her credit limit being increased from 
£1,000 to £4,000 in around a year, I think that further checks should have taken place before 
this increase was offered.Mrs C has provided copies of her bank statements for the months leading up to the April 
2018 credit limit increase. These show her monthly income to be around £790 which is in 
line with her initial declared annual income of £10,000. Mrs Cs bank statements show 
limited monthly expenses with payments being made to this credit card, a communications 
provider and an insurance company. Including an amount for the credit card based on a 
£4,000 limit alongside the other commitments noted above results in monthly expenses of 
around £260. Additional to these costs, Mrs C was paying for food and other general living 
costs.
Based on the above, while I find that the credit limit increase to £4,000 was significant and 
further checks should have taken place before this was applied, I do not find that I have 
enough, based on the evidence I have received to say that this increase shouldnt have been 
provided.
No new information was provided following the issuing of my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate affordability 
checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances.
As no new information was provided following the issuing of my provisional decision, my 
conclusions havent changed. As I previously set out, I do not find that the checks carried out 
before NewDay provided Mrs C with the credit card with an initial credit limit of £250 were 
unreasonable. NewDay raised the credit limit on five occasions, and I agree with its decision 
to uphold this complaint in regard to the final credit limit increase.
In regard to the other credit limit increases as I set out in my provisional decision, Mrs C 
requested the first credit limit increase and based on her account history prior to this I do not 
find I can say NewDay was wrong to provide this. The next two credit limit increases in April 
2017 and October 2017 brought her credit limit to £2,750. While this was a significant 
increase from the initial credit limit, I do not think her account management or credit 
information from the time raised any concerns. In April 2018, Mrs C was offered a further 
credit limit increase which brought Mrs Cs credit limit to £4,000. I think that further checks 
should have taken place before this increase was offered, but based on her bank statements 
and the other information available from the time, I do not find I have enough to say that this 
credit limit increase shouldnt have been provided.Putting things right
I am upholding this complaint in regard to the final credit limit increase. This is in line with 
NewDay Ltds final response letter and NewDay Ltd has already provided a refund to 
Mrs Cs account based on this. However, I also think it is required to make amendments to 
Mrs Cs credit file to reflect this uphold. I understand that Mrs C still has a debt outstanding 
which is with a third party, and I find that once Mrs C has cleared the outstanding balance, 
NewDay Ltd should ensure that any adverse information recorded after the application of the 
final credit limit increase (September 2018) in relation to the account is removed from 
Mrs Cs credit file.
My final decision
My final decisions it that NewDay Ltd should take the actions set out above in resolution of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman