DRN-2401043
The complaint
Mr F and his brother Mr F complain on behalf of their father the late Mr F that he was mis-
sold a finance agreement for a new boiler by Ikano Bank AB (publ).
What happened
In early 2019, the late Mr F was diagnosed with a terminal illness.
In September 2019, Mr F was contacted by a sales representative to see if he wanted a new 
gas boiler. Following the call, an appointment took place at Mr Fs home.
Mr F says that his father told the sales representative that he had a terminal illness, and that 
in response, the sales representative advised him to pay for the new boiler on finance 
because the debt would be written off if he passed away.
Soon after the boiler was installed, Mr F passed away. Ikano sought payment of the balance 
due under the finance agreement from Mr Fs estate.
Mr F and his brother are unhappy about this. They think it was irresponsible of Ikano to lend 
to their father given his health at the time. They also think the agreement was mis-sold.
In response to the complaint, Ikano said it had contacted the gas boiler retailer, who said it 
hadnt been made aware of the state of Mr Fs health. Ikano said it hadnt done anything 
wrong.
Mr F and his brother remained unhappy and brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to say that the late Mr F had been 
mis-led about what would happen to the balance under the agreement if he passed away. 
The investigator also said there wasnt any evidence to show that the retailer was aware of 
Mr Fs state of health. She said the outstanding finance would have to be settled from the 
estate.
Mr F didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to find that the finance agreement was mis-sold to the late Mr F, I would need to be 
satisfied that the sales representative made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mr F 
to enter into the agreement.
Mr F says the sales representative told his father to enter into a finance agreement because 
in the event of him passing away, the balance under the agreement would be written off.
Ikano contacted the retailer, who said that Mr F hadnt disclosed any details about his health, 
and that there were no concerns about his physical or mental health. They also said they 
dont discuss what happens with an agreement upon death unless they are asked, in which 
case they would explain that any balance would be payable by the estate.
Because I wasnt present when Mr F discussed the agreement with the salesperson, I cant 
be certain of exactly what was said. So, Ive looked at the available information to decide 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive taken into account what both parties have said. Ive listened to a phone call made by the 
sales representative to Mr F, in which the details of the sale were confirmed. Ive also looked 
at a record of a final visit to Mr Fs house at which the agreement was signed and the boiler 
installed.
I havent seen anything to suggest that the sales representative was aware of Mr Fs state of 
health, or that he made a statement to the effect that the balance under the agreement 
would be written off if he passed away. Because of this, I cant be certain that the sales 
representative was aware that Mr F was unwell. And I havent seen enough evidence to 
persuade me that the sales representative made a misrepresentation.
Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that the agreement was mis-sold. So, I wont be 
asking Ikano to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman