DRN-3512686
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire agreement financed by 
ALD Automotive Limited (ALD).
What happened
In August 2019 Mr B acquired a new car through a hire agreement. He said he noticed a 
problem with the vehicle soon after acquiring it, and contacted ALD. He said they suggested 
he take the vehicle to a manufacturer garage, because it was now his responsibility and any 
repairs might be covered under warranty. 
The car was inspected by the manufacturer dealership in October 2019, June 2020, 
February 2021, and March 2021. Mr B said the car was juddering, or hesitant. The 
manufacturer garage couldnt replicate the fault during test drives, and so they suggested 
that Mr B test drive the car alongside a master technician to try and identify the fault, but this 
didnt go ahead.
 
Mr B complained to ALD about the quality of the vehicle in March 2021, and they arranged 
for an engineer to test drive it. The engineer reported to ALD that there was a judder in the 
vehicle when the gears were changed in a specific way, or under certain driving conditions 
such as revving up to pull out of a junction. The engineer commented that it was difficult to 
replicate the fault, and they werent sure of the cause, but it was an annoyance rather than a 
larger problem.
In June 2021, ALD gave Mr B the option of terminating his agreement early without charge 
with £400 compensation, or theyd work to arrange repairs to rectify the fault. 
Unhappy with ALDs offer, Mr B brought his complaint to us for investigation. He said he 
wanted to return the car and have his payments refunded. 
Our investigator gave their view that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied to Mr B. She recommended that Mr B be allowed his final right to reject the vehicle, 
that ALD refund Mr Bs advance payment on a pro rata basis, and refund 10% of Mr Bs 
monthly payments to reflect the impaired use of the vehicle. 
Mr B said hed rather ALD repaired the vehicle, because hed have to wait a number of 
months for a new car to become available, and hed face higher prices to enter a new 
agreement. Our investigator recommended that ALD arrange for the repair of the vehicle, 
keep Mr B mobile whilst repairs were carried out, and refund 10% of Mr Bs monthly 
payments to reflect the impaired use of the vehicle. 
ALD asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They said Mr B didnt make them 
aware of the complaint until March 2021, so they shouldnt be responsible for returning so 
much of Mr Bs monthly payments for a minor issue when they couldve inspected the 
vehicle sooner if Mr B had contacted them. ALD said if they hadnt appointed their own 
engineer, the outcome wouldve been different, because the manufacturer had been unable 
to find a fault. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire agreement  so we can consider 
a complaint relating to it. ALD have told Mr B that according to the hire agreement, he is 
responsible for any repairs to the vehicle, including any required as a result of faulty 
manufacture. I disagree. As the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, ALD is 
responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
Im satisfied that The Consumer Rights Act 2015 remains relevant to Mr Bs complaint. It 
says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the 
goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired new, and with this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable 
person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a cheaper, higher mileage, vehicle 
and that it could be used, free from even minor defects, for a considerable period of time. 
Mr B reported problems with the performance of the car in October 2019. The manufacturer 
garage was unable to replicate a fault on a number of test drives, but the engineer appointed 
by ALD confirmed there was a fault with the vehicle in the form of a judder under certain 
driving conditions. They also explained why this mightve been difficult to replicate during the 
previous test drives. 
ALD have said if they hadnt appointed an engineer, the outcome wouldve been different, 
but Im not persuaded this is the case. Ultimately, the vehicle had a fault, whether this was 
diagnosed by the manufacturer garage or not. 
So, Im satisfied that there was a fault with the vehicle. ALD have said that the fault was an 
annoyance, but I dont think a reasonable person would expect a brand new car to develop a 
fault like this in such a short space of time, so I find that it was of unsatisfactory quality at the 
time it was supplied to Mr B. 
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, ALD should do to put things 
right. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the 
goods. That repair should be done in a reasonable time, and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer.  Here, its not known exactly what is causing the juddering to occur, and so its not clear what 
is required in order to affect a repair. Its not clear if a repair will be successful, will be long 
lasting, or how long it might take to complete. So, its likely that Mr B will be put to significant 
inconvenience, in addition to that which hes already experienced, in arranging a repair when 
its not clear that it will be successful and further work and time might then be required to 
return the car to a satisfactory state. Its also not clear if a repair would be cost effective for 
ALD.  
All things considered; Im satisfied that normally, Mr B is entitled to his final right to reject he 
vehicle. This would mean that the car is collected from Mr B, the agreement is brought to an 
end, and Mr Bs initial rental is refunded on a pro rata basis. 
I understand that Mr Bs agreement is nearing an end, and the car is due to be returned to 
ALD in a few months. So, I dont think its reasonable to reject the vehicle at this stage. But I 
do think its fair that ALD compensate Mr B for having a faulty car for the full length of the 
agreement. 
ALD said that if Mr B had contacted them in 2019 when the fault first occurred, they wouldnt 
have to refund so much of his payments. Mr B said he did contact ALD, but they told him to 
take the car to a manufacturer garage because he was responsible for the repairs. Mr B 
hasnt been able to provide evidence of this phone call. But I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Mr B to have taken the vehicle to a manufacturer garage in any event. When he did 
contact ALD, they told him he was responsible for the repairs, so Im not persuaded that the 
outcome wouldve been any different if hed asked them to inspect the vehicle when he first 
experienced the fault. 
Mr B has been able to use the vehicle, so I think its fair that he pays for this use. But he has 
had to drive the car with a fault present that effects its performance. The hire agreement 
allows Mr B to travel a total of 24,000 miles in three years, and hed travelled just over 
16,000 miles two years into the agreement. So, he has used the vehicle in line with the 
agreed mileage and his use wasnt significantly impaired, but it was impaired. ALD should 
refund Mr B 10% of all of his payments, including the initial rental, to reflect this impaired 
use, plus 8% simple yearly interest from the date of each payment to the date of settlement. 
Mr B responded to my provisional decision to say hed like the car to be fixed as soon as 
possible, and hed then keep it for the full term of the agreement, because otherwise hed be 
left without a vehicle due to the delivery time on new cars. 
ALD responded to my provisional decision. They said they didnt agree that Mr B had a right 
to reject the vehicle, because theres no evidence the fault was present when the vehicle 
was supplied. They also said the dealership is entitled to a chance to repair the vehicle, 
which hasnt happened. 
ALD said they werent aware of any issues until March 2021, and they instructed an 
engineer in June 2021 and offered to take control of repairs at that stage, but Mr B declined 
this offer, and their offer to end the contract. ALD said they would refund 10% of Mr Bs 
payments from August 2019 to June 2021, but they didnt think they should refund any 
payments after June 2021 as they offered to repair the vehicle or end the finance at this 
point, but Mr B didnt accept and chose to continue to drive the faulty car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.ALD have said they dont agree that Mr B has a right to reject the vehicle, because theres 
no evidence a fault was present when the vehicle was supplied. I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect a fault like this to occur on a new vehicle in such a short space of time, 
and for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B. 
ALD also said they dont think Mr B has a right to reject the vehicle because there should be 
one opportunity to repair the vehicle. The CRA sets out that any repair should be done in a 
reasonable time, and without significant inconvenience to the consumer.  
As I set out in my provisional decision, its not known exactly what is causing the juddering to 
occur, and so its not clear what is required in order to affect a repair. So, its likely that Mr B 
will be put to significant inconvenience, in addition to that which hes already experienced, in 
arranging a repair. 
All things considered; Im satisfied that normally, Mr B is entitled to his final right to reject he 
vehicle. But I understand that Mr Bs agreement is nearing an end, and the car is due to be 
returned to ALD in a few months. So, I dont think its reasonable to reject the vehicle at this 
stage. But I do think its fair that ALD compensate Mr B for having a faulty car. 
ALD said they werent aware of issues until March 2021, but as I set out in my provisional 
decision, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr B to take the vehicle to a manufacturer 
garage. And, in any event, when Mr B contacted ALD they told him he was responsible for 
repairs, so Im not persuaded the outcome wouldve been different if Mr B had contacted 
ALD at the outset. 
ALD said they didnt think they should refund any of Mr Bs payments after June 2021, 
because they offered to repair the vehicle or cancel the agreement at that stage, but Mr B 
chose to continue to drive a faulty vehicle. 
As Ive set out, I think Mr B was entitled to reject the vehicle, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for him to reject the repairs when ALD offered them. ALD say they offered to 
end Mr Bs agreement, but this offer wasnt in line with our expectations for rejecting a 
vehicle under the CRA. ALDs offer didnt include a pro rata refund of Mr Bs initial rental. 
They also didnt offer to refund any of Mr Bs payments for the impaired use of the vehicle. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr B to reject this offer. 
Mr B said hed like the vehicle repaired as soon as possible. For the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I dont think repair of the vehicle is an acceptable remedy under the 
CRA. 
All things being equal, Im satisfied that Mr B is entitled to his final right to reject the vehicle. 
If it werent for the impending end of the contract, Id be directing ALD to collect the vehicle 
at no cost to Mr B, refund his initial rental on a pro rata basis and refund 10% of Mr Bs 
monthly payments from the beginning of the agreement to the date of rejection to reflect the 
impaired use whilst Mr B was in possession of the car. 
As it is, Mr Bs agreement is almost at an end. So, I dont think its reasonable to reject the 
vehicle at this stage. But, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, ALD should 
compensate Mr B for the impaired use of a faulty vehicle for the full length of the agreement, 
by refunding 10% of all of his monthly payments, plus interest. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require ALD Automotive Limited to 
refund 10% of all of Mr Bs payments, including his initial rental, plus 8% simple yearly 
interest from the date of each payment to the date of settlement. 
If ALD considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman