DRN-1884820
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs M complain that they were given incorrect information when they asked about 
products that would qualify them for HSBC UK Bank Plcs Premier Account. 
What happened
Mr D and Mrs M contacted HSBC and asked about its criteria for upgrading their bank 
account to a Premier Account. Mr D and Mrs M were told that they needed to take out a 
protection policy with HSBC and specifically checked whether a pet insurance policy with an 
affiliated business was acceptable. HSBC confirmed that the pet insurance policy was 
acceptable and they proceeded to take it out. 
The bank account was upgraded to a Premier Account but Mr D and Mrs M were told that 
the pet insurance policy didnt qualify them for an upgrade. HSBC said Mr D and Mrs M had 
six months to open a qualifying protection policy. After they complained, HSBC issued its 
final response on 22 January 2020 and apologised for the incorrect information. HSBC 
confirmed that Mr D and Mrs M had to take out a new product in order to ensure they met 
the criteria for the Premier Account and offered them £300. HSBC said its offer took into 
account the first four payments Mr D and Mrs M had paid for the pet insurance as well as the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mrs M referred the case to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator 
thought HSBCs offer was fair and didnt ask it to take any further action. Mrs M asked to 
appeal and provided screen shots to show HSBCs staff were still telling customers that the 
pet insurance they took out would qualify them for a Premier Account. As Mr D and Mrs M 
asked to appeal, their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that HSBC provided the wrong information when Mr D and Mrs M enquired 
about the qualifying criteria for the Premier Account. They specifically checked whether the 
pet insurance they went on to take out would qualify and HSBC confirmed it would. Im 
satisfied that HSBC gave the wrong information and that led Mr D and Mrs M to take out a 
specific pet insurance policy. I need to decide how best to fairly resolve this complaint. 
Mrs D has provided further screen shots to show HSBCs staff continue to tell customers that 
the pet insurance product qualifies them for a Premier Account. I appreciate the ongoing 
incorrect information is frustrating. But we can only look at complaints on an individual basis 
and HSBCs relationship managers have confirmed that the information about pet insurance 
Mrs M was given is wrong. HSBCs complaints department have also confirmed that the pet 
insurance product isnt included. 
I can see that there does appear to be an ongoing issue with some staff at HSBC providing 
the wrong information, but Im satisfied that it has correctly explained its policy to Mr D and 
Mrs M after they complained and that they are aware that pet insurance isnt a qualifying 
product. 
I agree that HSBC provided misleading information that misrepresented the criteria for 
Premier Banking. Mrs M has explained that they took out pet insurance that was more 
expensive than other products available because she was told it was acceptable. I agree 
that the information was wrong and that Mr D and Mrs M took out pet insurance as a result 
of HSBCs error. Mrs M says that to resolve the complaint she wants HSBC to refund the full 
cost of the pet insurance for one year, which totals around £561. But HSBC has only offered 
to cover four monthly premiums totalling £186.71.
Mrs M says they would have taken out cheaper pet insurance if they had known the correct 
position. I take Mrs Ds point, but they would still have taken out a pet insurance policy which 
would have come at a cost. I dont agree that refunding the full years premiums is a fair way 
to resolve the complaint, because Mr D and Mrs M would still have paid for pet insurance 
with an alternative provider. Mrs M says that the pet insurance they took out was more 
expensive, but HSBCs offer includes a four-month premium refund which reduces the cost 
of the pet insurance Mr D and Mrs M paid. Whilst I accept there may have been cheaper 
alternatives available, Im satisfied HSBC has taken this into account when reaching its offer. 
HSBCs offer included around £113 to apologise for the inconvenience caused by the 
incorrect information. Whilst I can see how frustrated Mr D and Mrs M are at what happened, 
the error was identified reasonably quickly and HSBC explained they had several months to 
take out a new product in order to ensure the Premier Account criteria was met. I do 
understand that being given the same incorrect information again has been frustrating, but 
Im satisfied HSBC correctly explained its qualifying criteria to Mr D and Mrs M when they 
complained. I think HSBCs offer is fair. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D and Mrs M as I can see how strongly they feel in this matter. But 
whilst HSBC did give them the wrong information, the correct qualifying criteria was later 
provided. HSBC offered Mr D and Mrs M a total of £300 to cover the first four pet insurance 
premiums they paid along with the distress and inconvenience caused by being given the 
wrong information. Im satisfied the £300 offer is fair in all the circumstances, so Im not 
telling HSBC to increase the settlement or do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 
20 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman