DRN-3853279
The complaint
Mr D and Ms M complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
They say that Nationwide mis-sold them two mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policies. 
What happened
Mr D and Ms M were sold an MPPI policy alongside a mortgage in 1996. This policy covered 
both Mr D and Ms M. In 1999, Mr D and Ms M applied for a further advance and took out 
another MPPI policy. This policy only covered Mr D. The policy taken in 1996 was also 
cancelled at this time.
Mr D and Ms M complained about the policies to Nationwide who didnt uphold their 
complaint. They then referred their complaint to this Service.
Our Adjudicator considered the complaint but didnt think that Nationwide had done anything 
wrong.
Mr D and Ms MM disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr D and Ms Ms case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold their complaint. I know that this will be 
disappointing for Mr D and Ms M, so Ill explain the reasons why.
Nationwide has provided the MPPI applications for both the 1996 and 1999 policies. On 
these, I can see that the policy is presented as an optional, separate product to the original 
mortgage and the further advance  Mr D and Ms M both signed for the policy in 1996, and 
Mr D signed for the policy taken out in 1999. 
So, I think that Nationwide made them aware that the policies were optional, and they had a 
choice in about buying the MPPI, and that they chose to take out both policies. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the MPPI policies to Mr D and Ms M, so it didnt have to check 
if it was right for them, but it did have to provide them with enough information to decide if 
they thought they policy was right for them. 
Its possible that some of the information provided by Nationwide wasnt as clear as it 
couldve been  but Mr D and Ms M dont appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things that the policy didnt cover, and it seems that the policy couldve been useful if theyd 
needed to make a claim, given their circumstances and other means they had in place at the 
time.
I understand that Mr D and Ms M say that they didnt take advantage of the MPPI policies 
when they were made redundant  and that they didnt know that they could. They say that 
had they known what the policies were for they wouldve claimed. 
Ms M was made redundant in 2001  so she would never have been able to make a claim 
as the policy that covered her for this event had been cancelled by this time. Mr D was made 
redundant in 2002  so he couldve made a claim at this time if he chose to. I dont know 
why Mr D didnt make a claim  but the paperwork he signed for the policy is clear in what 
the policy covered, and what it was for  so I cant say that Nationwide mis-sold it for this 
reason.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr D and Ms M have said, but thee points dont 
change my conclusion.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses
to follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or
agreements taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the
information Ive seen, Mr D and Ms Ms credit agreement doesnt fit into these dates - and so 
Nationwide doesnt have to refund any of the commission they paid on the MPPI policies.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman