DRN-1563007
Complaint
Mr C says Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent to him.          
Background
This complaint is about five high-cost short term credit loans that Cashfloat provided to Mr C 
between May 2018 and March 2019. Our adjudicator upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought 
that he shouldnt have been provided with loans 4 and 5. Cashfloat disagreed. So the 
complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of the 
arguments, evidence and information provided. Having looked at the overall pattern of 
Cashfloats lending history with Mr C, I think that Cashfloat should reasonably have seen 
that Mr C was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a sustainable manner by 
the time it provided Mr C with loan 4. 
I say this because the information Cashfloat itself obtained clearly showed that Mr C had 
been a regular user of short-term loans. So, in my view, Mr C was displaying a pattern of borrowing consistent with someone who was in financial difficulty. And this history of short-
term lending as well as Mr C having a credit utilisation limit of 99% of existing revolving 
credit was clearly inconsistent with disposable income recorded. 
In these circumstances, I think that Cashfloat ought to have realised that Mr C was taking 
loans 4 and 5 to cover the hole payments to previous Cashfloat loans left in his finances as 
well as make payments to other creditors.
So I think that Cashfloat provided loans 4 and 5 to Mr C in circumstances where it ought 
reasonably to have realised that any further loans were more likely than not unsustainable 
for him. Mr C had to pay interest and charges on loans that Cashfloat shouldnt have 
provided him with. So I think that he lost out and Cashfloat should put things right.
Putting things right  what Cashfloat needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on loan 4;
 
remove all interest and charges applied to loan 5 at the outset. The payments Mr C 
made should then be deducted from this. In other words, Mr C should pay no more 
than the £350 he was originally lent for this loan. If the payments Mr C made are 
enough to have cleared the balance any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to him;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges and 
overpayments from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
if, after all adjustments have been made, an outstanding balance remains on loan 5 
then Cashfloat can deduct this from what it now needs to pay Mr C. And if the 
amount Mr C owes Cashfloat is more than the compensation hes owed then 
Cashfloat is entitled to collect any outstanding amount. That said I would remind 
Cashfloat of its obligation to exercise forbearance should it wish to collect any 
outstanding amount and it be the case that Mr C is experiencing financial difficulty; 
 
remove any adverse credit file information recorded as a result of loans 4 and 5.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint Western Circle Ltd 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman