DRN-4456712
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that more 2 life Ltd unfairly refused them a further advance on their 
lifetime mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a lifetime mortgage  a form of equity release  in 2020. They 
borrowed around £600,000 to pay off their existing interest only mortgage; their property was 
valued at around £2.4million at that time. The interest rate was 3.05%, fixed for the duration 
of the mortgage.
In 2022 they applied to more 2 life for a further advance. They paid a valuation fee and the 
application proceeded. more 2 life considered it, and declined the application on the basis 
that Mr S had been disqualified as a company director some years previously.
Mr and Mrs S complained. They said Mr Ss disqualification was before they first took out 
their mortgage and it wasnt a barrier at the time, so it shouldnt prevent them taking further 
borrowing. They said their mortgage agreement said they could borrow more at any time.
They said they were now trapped with more 2 life because it wouldnt lend them any more 
money, and if they went to another lender there would be a substantial early repayment 
charge (ERC). And interest rates have increased in the meantime, so any new borrowing 
would now be more expensive. Mr and Mrs S said they had paid a valuation fee for no 
reason and while more 2 life had said it would be refunded, they still hadnt had it back. They 
didnt think it was fair that more 2 life had changed its lending criteria even though nothing 
about their circumstances had changed.
more 2 life said it was not obliged to lend. It was entitled to consider the application in line 
with its lending criteria and it acted fairly in declining the application for further lending. But it 
said it would refund the valuation fee of £2,550.
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint. He said that if Mr Ss 
disqualification was a matter of concern to more 2 life, that should have been picked up at 
the time of their first application in 2020. As a result, Mr and Mrs S were now stuck with more 
2 life and unable to access further borrowing. He said it should pay them £250 compensation 
and, if they were able to move their mortgage elsewhere, waive any early repayment charge.
more 2 life accepted that. It also said it would consider another application from 
Mr and Mrs S, now that Mr Ss disqualification has expired, and would not charge a further 
valuation fee. Mr and Mrs S did not agree. They didnt think it was fair that their application 
had been declined in 2022, and said that if they applied again now, or moved their mortgage 
to another lender, they would have to pay a higher interest rate. They wanted more 2 life to 
honour the 4.7% interest rate that was available in 2022.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint. Although I largely 
agreed with our investigator about the outcome, I took a different view of the appropriate 
redress.
My provisional decision
I said:
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage offer says that their loan is subject to an ERC for the first 
10 years the ERC is 5% of the loan balance for the first five years, and 3% between 
years six and ten.
The offer also says:
You may apply for additional funds against your home at any time by 
application to more 2 life Limited. The amount available will depend on the 
current value of your home, your age, the condition of the property at the time 
of application and the outstanding balance. Additional funds are not 
guaranteed at any time during the life of the loan.
This means that further borrowing is not guaranteed  its subject to application. And 
more 2 life is entitled to refuse an application if its lending criteria arent met.
more 2 life has explained to us that it hasnt changed its lending criteria between 
2020 and 2022. What has changed is the checks it carries out  so in 2020 its 
underwriting checks wouldnt have picked up director disqualifications, but in 2022 
they did. But if it had been aware of Mr Ss disqualification in 2020, that would have 
caused it the same concern it had in 2022.
This means that more 2 life shouldnt have lent to Mr and Mrs S in 2020. Mr Ss 
disqualification means that it wasnt prepared to accept them as customers. Nothing 
had changed about that between 2020 and 2022; all that had changed was that more 
2 life was more likely to find out about it in 2022.
There is no suggestion this is information Mr and Mrs S concealed in 2020. Ive 
looked at the application form they completed, and while it asks about matters such 
as bankruptcy, it doesnt ask about director disqualification.
If this is a matter that does concern more 2 life, and leads it to refuse lending when it 
is aware of it, then I think it ought to have either asked, or carried out its own checks, 
in 2020. It's a matter for more 2 life to decide where its lending risk appetite lies. Its 
not unreasonable for it to take the view that it doesnt want to lend to applicants 
during a period of disqualification as a director.
However, that has  in the particular circumstances of this case  resulted in 
unfairness to Mr and Mrs S. Its not unusual for lifetime mortgage borrowers to take 
further advances over the years as their needs change  but Mr and Mrs S were 
unable to do that. Had more 2 life carried out the more detailed checks it now carries 
out in 2020, I think its likely it wouldnt have lent to them at all.
But more 2 life did lend, and then applied its more rigorous checks to their 2022 
application, leading to it being declined. This meant that when Mr and Mrs S wanted 
to borrow more money in 2022 they couldnt do so with more 2 life, and they couldnt 
move to another lender either without paying a 5% ERC. They wouldnt have been in 
that position if more 2 life had carried out checks in line with its risk appetite and 
declined their original application in 2020.
Putting things rightmore 2 life has now said it will consider a further application from Mr and Mrs S, 
without charging them a valuation fee. Mr Ss director disqualification has expired 
since the 2022 application, so it doesnt anticipate that will be a barrier to a further 
application. I think thats fair.
Mr and Mrs S have said that more 2 life should also honour the 4.7% interest rate 
that was available in 2022. Ive thought carefully about this. Declining their 2022 
application wouldnt have been unfair had they been new customers. But they 
werent new customers, because it hadnt declined their 2020 application.
If more 2 life had declined their 2020 application, Mr and Mrs S would have needed 
to apply to another lender instead in 2020. Clearly they didnt do so, and so I dont 
know for sure whether another lender would have accepted their application. 
However, on balance, I think its more likely than not. I say that because their broker 
has checked with two other major lifetime mortgage lenders, and both have 
confirmed that they do not decline applications on the basis of a director 
disqualification  unless there are also issues such as a bankruptcy or criminal 
matters.
On balance, therefore, I think that had more 2 life declined their application in 2020, 
Mr and Mrs S would have been able to obtain a mortgage with another lender 
instead. And, for the same reasons, its likely they would have been able to obtain a 
further advance in 2022 on that mortgage. While the further advance might not have 
been at exactly the same interest rate of 4.7% that more 2 life had available at the 
time, it would have been broadly similar, and substantially less than the rates 
Mr and Mrs S could obtain now, either from more 2 life or on the open market. Ive 
not seen anything other than the disqualification which leads me to believe an 
application was likely to have been refused.
As a result, I dont think merely waiving the ERC goes far enough. It allows 
Mr and Mrs S to move their mortgage to another lender  but doing so means the 
entire balance, not just the extra they wanted in 2022, would be at a much higher 
interest rate. Theres no prospect of them being able to replace their 2020 borrowing 
now at a rate comparable to what they would have got from another lender in 2020. 
So moving elsewhere will cause them substantial financial loss.
And I dont think a fresh application  based on rates available now  to more 2 life 
goes far enough either. While it will mean Mr and Mrs S retain the interest rate on 
their 2020 borrowing, it still means the further advance will be at a higher interest rate 
than it would have been in 2022 had they been with another lender from the start.
To put things right, more 2 life should consider a further application from 
Mr and Mrs S now. And if that application is granted  subject to matters such as the 
security of their property and the loan to value  it should offer them up to £143,627 
at 4.7% fixed for the lifetime of their mortgage. This is the sum more 2 life said in 
2022 could be available based on the outcome of the valuation. If Mr and Mrs S wish 
to borrow more than this, any amount above that level will be at the interest rate 
available now. If more 2 life has now refunded the cost of the 2022 valuation  as it 
said it would  it does not need to provide a free valuation now, since Mr and Mrs S 
would always have needed to pay for one valuation to obtain further borrowing.
I think this is a fair outcome. While more 2 life should not have lent in 2020, the fact is 
that it did. The consequences of that cannot be put right by Mr and Mrs S moving to 
another lender, since doing so would cause them substantial financial loss in the 
interest rate they are charged. And while the 4.7% available in 2022 may not exactly replicate what they would have been able to obtain from another lender at that time, 
its not possible to know exactly what they would have got, and I think 4.7% is 
broadly in line with what was available on the market. So Im satisfied that this is the 
fairest way to put Mr and Mrs S as close to being back in the position they would 
have been in as is possible in the circumstances.
Finally, I agree that more 2 life should pay Mr and Mrs S £250 compensation, which I 
think fairly reflects the upset caused.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs S accepted my provisional decision. more 2 life said it had nothing further to add 
to what it had already said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. Having done 
so, and having noted that neither party had any further evidence to provide or arguments to 
make, I see no reasons to depart from those conclusions. For the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, quoted above, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put matters right, more 2 life should:
Within 28 days of the date we tell it Mr and Mrs S have accepted this decision, 
contact Mr and Mrs S or their representative to find out how much they wish to 
borrow.
It should then consider an application for that amount, disregarding Mr Ss 
disqualification, against the lending criteria in place at the time of the 2022 
application. If more 2 life has refunded the 2022 valuation fee, it will be entitled to 
charge for a new valuation now, but if it has not yet refunded the 2022 valuation fee it 
should waive the cost of a new valuation instead. 
Provided the application otherwise meets its lending criteria, it should offer Mr and 
Mrs S a further advance on their lifetime mortgage at an interest rate of 4.7% fixed 
for life, subject to a maximum further advance at this rate of £143,627. If Mr and Mrs 
S wish to borrow more than this, the amount above £143,627 will be subject to a full 
fresh application against current lending criteria (disregarding Mr Ss disqualification), 
and will be charged at an interest rate from more 2 lifes current range. 
Any future applications for further borrowing (whether or not Mr and Mrs S borrow 
less than £143,627 on this occasion) will be considered as fresh applications subject 
to the interest rates available in more 2 lifes range at the time of the application.
Pay Mr and Mrs S £250 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. more 2 life Limited should put things right in 
the way I have set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman