DRN-2840464
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about their mortgage with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
(RBS). Mr S, who has conducted the complaint throughout, says RBS changed the way the 
account operated, without consent and contrary to the terms of the contract. As a result, 
Mr S says interest has been charged on the whole balance, which is not what he and Mrs S 
signed up for.
To settle the complaint, Mr S wants RBS to reimburse him and Mrs S for what he says is 
overcharged interest on the capital balance.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented, and rounded up the figures.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Briefly, in 2002 Mr and Mrs S took out a Virgin OneAccount (the account), which is now 
owned and administered by RBS. (I will refer to RBS throughout for clarity.) This is a unique 
product, consolidating the balances of a customers mortgage, current account, personal 
loans and, if desired, their saving accounts into one account. Interest is charged on the net 
balance of the account on a daily basis. This has the effect of reducing the average balance 
and the interest charged when compared with a traditional mortgage. Rather than savings 
earning interest, they instead offset the account balance, thus reducing the interest charged 
on the mortgage. Where interest rates on savings accounts are lower than mortgage interest 
rates, customer gain by using their savings to offset their mortgage balance.
Mr and Mrs S initially borrowed £170,000 but in 2004 the facility was increased to £220,000. 
The documentation from 2002 shows that the capital balance of the mortgage is due to be 
repaid month by month  that is, on a capital repayment basis, at a variable interest rate 
(then 5.95%, but at the time of the events complained of, 4.35%). RBS said that the monthly 
statements showed whether Mr and Mrs S were ahead or behind on their repayment plan, 
and indeed that is what the statements showed. 
But the offer also says that the account is designed to be as flexible as possible. It says You 
must repay your borrowing by the time you retire. From this, Mr and Mrs S understood this 
to mean that, as long as the full amount was repaid by the end date (August 2020), they 
need not worry about reducing the balance in the interim. Thus they (mistakenly) concluded 
their mortgage was interest only.
In 2012 RBS wrote to customers who were behind on their payment plan, asking them to 
reduce the account balance to the projected amount. Mr and Mrs S received such a letter, 
telling them their facility had been reduced to £192,000. After complaining, the facility was 
increased back up to just under £220,000. 
In 2013 and 2014 RBS carried out a review of its OneAccounts and concluded that 
customers had been given contradictory information, suggesting that they had the full use of 
the facility throughout the term, whilst at the same time expecting month-on-month 
reductions in the balance in line with the payment plan. RBS compensated customers who 
had been affected.
In November 2013 Mr and Mrs S paid in approximately £58,000 to their account, which 
came from an inheritance. This was offset against the account balance, reducing it to around 
£165,000 and resulting in a reduction in the overall interest charged of about £80 per month. 
However, the money was subsequently withdrawn, and I am told by Mr S it was put into a 
savings account with another business paying approximately 0.5% interest. As a result, the 
interest on the RBS account increased to reflect the increased account balance, which went 
back up to about £220,000.
In 2014 Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage was changed to an interest-only mortgage, at their 
request..
In 2020 Mr S complained. He is unhappy that interest is being charged on the full balance of 
just under £220,000. Mr S says that he and Mrs S have been disadvantaged by being 
charged interest on the full balance after RBS unfairly changed the terms of the mortgage. 
Mr S says that the mortgage was always on an interest-only basis and so for RBS to reduce 
the facility in 2012 was wrong.
Mr S says that the account balance has always been maintained at about £7,000 below the 
facility level, and so by RBS charging interest on the full £220,000 per month, he and Mrs S 
are losing interest on this amount each month. Mr S also says that he has lost interest  of 
4.35% on the savings of £58,000 which he paid into the account in November 2013, 
because these have been moved to an account paying about 0.5% interest with another 
business.
RBS didnt uphold the complaint about how the account had been administered but offered 
£250 for the way in which the complaint had been dealt with.
Unhappy with RBSs response, Mr and Mrs S complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was 
satisfied the account had been administered in accordance with the terms of the contract.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he wasnt interested in the investigators opinion on the complaint 
and asked for a review of the complaint. Mr S reiterated his complaint points about the way 
in which RBS has administered the account. He maintains that this was always an interest-
only account, and that RBS changed the terms without his or Mrs Ss consent.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on it.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that, as an informal ombudsman service, what we are required to 
do is give our opinion on whether or not a complaint should be upheld. It is only if a final 
decision is accepted that our opinion becomes legally binding on the parties. 
Ive looked at the original documentation from 2002. This was before mortgages became 
regulated on 31 October 2004  after which date mortgage offers had to be in a prescribed 
format. As this is a pre-regulation mortgage offer, the format is in the lenders house style, 
and, as RBS later acknowledged, this wasnt clear enough in explaining the way the product 
operated.
I can see why Mr and Mrs S thought the mortgage was interest-only  because the mortgage 
offer suggested they only need be concerned about paying back the balance on their 
retirement. But on the other hand, the statements show this was, until July 2014, a capital 
repayment mortgage, and showed whether they were ahead or behind on the payment plan. 
After asking customers in 2012 to reduce their account balances to meet their projected 
repayment plans, RBS later acknowledged that the documentation at point of sale hadnt 
been clear enough. As this has been addressed by the bank, I wont comment further on 
this. 
On Mr and Mrs Ss account, the reduction in the facility was reinstated to £220,000. Since 
then, interest has been charged on the account balance on a fluctuating daily basis.
Mr S says that he and Mrs S have lost out because they withdrew the £58,000 paid into the 
account in November 2013. As a result, they say theyve lost interest of 4.35% on this, as its 
now only earning about 0.5% in a savings account elsewhere. I can see from the statements 
that after the money was paid in, interest on the account reduced accordingly; as it was 
withdrawn over time, the balance on the account increased, and with it the interest.
As the £58,000 is no longer in the account, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs S havent lost interest 
on it. It was their choice to move it to a savings account elsewhere. If theyd left it in the RBS 
account, it would have resulted in a lower balance on the account, and less interest charged 
on the mortgage. Mr and Mrs S could have had the benefit of less interest at 4.35% being 
charged on their mortgage by leaving the £58,000 in the RBS account, but chose instead to 
invest it at 0.5% interest elsewhere. In the circumstances, I cant see any basis on which it 
would be fair or reasonable to order RBS to compensate Mr and Mrs S for choosing to do 
this.
Ive reviewed the account statements from inception, and they show the daily running 
balance on the account and the interest applied each month, in accordance with the account 
terms and conditions. There is nothing in the statements to suggest interest has been 
charged on anything other than the actual account balance. 
I appreciate Mr S believes his account has been incorrectly run and that interest has been 
wrongly applied. But the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt provide an auditing service 
or carry out a forensic analysis of customer accounts to identify errors. Of course, its open 
to Mr and Mrs S to instruct an independent qualified professional such as an accountant or 
actuary to audit the account. But that would have to be at their expense  though if errors 
were found to their detriment, they could complain about them and the reasonable cost of 
discovering them could be taken into account in putting matters right. But overall, my review 
of the account doesnt lead me to conclude that RBS has charged interest unfairly or on 
anything other than the actual account balance. I note RBS offered £250 compensation for leaving off a line of Mr and Mrs Ss address when 
it sent them a final response letter. I think this is fair and I dont intend to order the bank to do 
anything further or pay any additional compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman