DRN-3585908
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy with a personal loan in 1994.
What happened
Mr H originally complained about PPI on two loans, one taken out in 1994 and the other in 
1998. However, at that time, neither Mr H nor Santander could find any evidence that PPI 
was sold with those loans. Mr H has more recently found some paperwork in relation to the 
1994 loan that shows he did take out PPI, therefore we were then able to look at that sale.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I was not minded to uphold 
the complaint and giving the parties the opportunity to respond. Mr H made some further 
comments that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H says he was given the impression that his loan application was more likely to succeed 
if he agreed to buy the policy. The credit agreement says We strongly recommend you take 
out PPI, which suggests that an applicant has a choice because it is a recommendation 
rather than something mandatory. And an applicant doesnt have to accept the 
recommendation. The form also explains that the PPI can be cancelled if someone decides 
they dont want it. From what we know of Santanders sales process at the time, the PPI was 
usually presented as optional and I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude 
that something different happened in this case.
In response to my provisional decision Mr H has reiterated that he thought the PPI was 
something he had to have to help get the loan approved. It was his first loan and so he was 
nervous about the process and listened to the adviser who said that taking out PPI would be 
the responsible thing to do. He says he told them that his family would help him financially if 
he needed it, but the adviser convinced him to buy the policy. This makes it sound as if Mr H 
knew that he didnt have to buy the policy but that he was persuaded that it would be a good 
idea. He might be remembering that he was told that he ought to have the policy, rather than 
being told that he had to have it.
As I said in my provisional decision, I have no doubt that Mr H has provided his genuine 
recollection of events. However, the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be 
surprising if his memory has faded somewhat. On balance, I consider that Mr H would 
probably have known that he had a choice about buying PPI. It seems to me that he most 
likely decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing 
so.
Its unclear whether this was an advised sale or not. If it was an advised sale it means that 
Santander needed to ensure that the policy met Mr Hs needs. And from what I know of Mr 
Hs circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for him.
Mr H says he would have received some sick pay from his employer, although he couldnt 
recall how much. However, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and 
potentially for longer than Mr H would have received full pay for. And Mr H didnt have any 
other means, such as savings, to fall back on. Mr H says his parents would have helped. But 
having the policy would have avoided the need to ask his parents to pay his loan 
repayments for him. Overall, I consider that Mr H had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Santander also needed to provide Mr H with enough information for him to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr H says Santander didnt tell him he could buy a policy elsewhere. But Santander did not 
have a duty to inform Mr H of other PPI products available on the open market, it just had to 
provide sufficient information about the policy that it was selling.
Mr H says he wasnt told that interest would be added to the PPI payment. However, this 
was a regular premium policy that was paid monthly. As such, the policy premiums did not 
attract interest.
The monthly cost of the policy was clearly set out on the credit agreement. Mr H had to sign 
copies of the credit agreement and send them back before the funds were released. 
Therefore, he would have known the cost of the PPI prior to agreeing to the loan.
Its possible that Santander could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, he did not have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have 
been excluded under the policy. As I consider that Mr H had an interest in the policy and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused him to change his 
mind. So he is no worse off as a result of anything that Santander may have done wrong, so 
there is nothing that Santander needs to do to put things right. It follows that my decision is 
that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman