DRN-4505121
The complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly blocked his accounts, preventing access to 
funds when he needed them. He is also unhappy his accounts were closed.
What happened
Mr S held a current account and savings account with HSBC. In November 2022 HSBC 
undertook a review on his accounts and placed a block on them.
HSBC completed its review at the end of November 2022 and in early December 2022  
allowed Mr S to transfer his funds from both accounts to an external account he held.
HSBC continued to block his accounts after this time, meaning Mr S couldnt use them, and 
closed both accounts in late January 2022 without notice.
Mr S says he was unable to return the United Kingdom from abroad because of the blocks. 
As a result, he says he lost an income stream from a business no longer offering him work, 
and his son was unable to attend an important medical appointment at a hospital. 
On his return to the UK in January 2023, Mr S says he attended branch a few times, but 
HSBC didnt help him. While he had use of another payment account, he wanted to keep his 
accounts with HSBC because it is a bank.
HSBC reviewed Mr S complaint while it was with our service and offered him £100 for not 
closing his accounts sooner. Mr S rejected the offer and said £1500 was appropriate.
Our investigator found HSBCs offer was fair. In summary, they concluded:
HSBC carried out its review in line with its legal and regulatory obligations and 
despite Mr S assertion, this wasnt limited to 30 days. It was able to block his 
accounts to carry out a review.
HSBC completed its review without causing unnecessary delay and released Mr S 
funds to him in early December. As HSBC acted in line with its obligations, it wasnt 
fair to award compensation because of the impact not having use of the funds had on 
Mr S.
HSBC didnt have to give reasons to Mr S for carrying out a review and didnt have to 
give reasons for closing the accounts. But after considering their reasons, they were 
legitimate.
Mr S said he borrowed money to buy flights back to the UK in January 2023. But 
HSBC released his funds in early December 2022, so he hadnt shown he borrowed 
money to purchase flights because of HSBCs actions.
HSBC acted in accordance with its terms and conditions when closing Mr S account.
Mr S asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so his complaint is now with me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided that the offer HSBC made to Mr S is fair. Ill explain why.
HSBC has important legal and regulatory obligations. To carry out its responsibilities it may 
carry out a review, and its common industry practice for banks to prevent customers 
accessing funds during reviews.
HSBC has no current obligation to provide reasons for carrying out a review and blocking  
Mr S accounts. So, Im not directing HSBC to provide its reasons to him as a result of him 
bringing his complaint to our service. I have, however, considered their reasons and find 
they werent unlawful or irrational.
There are two aspects to HSBCs review of Mr S account. The first is whether it caused 
undue delay before deciding to release the funds to Mr S. And the second aspect is HSBC 
continuing to block the accounts after this point up until it closed his accounts. 
Having reviewed HSBCs actions up until the release of Mr S funds, I dont find there was an 
undue delay. I appreciate Mr S wanted use of the funds for important reasons such as 
buying a flight back to the UK. But while this is unfortunate, Im not awarding him 
compensation because I find HSBC were able to block his account for the period in question.
Ive listened to what Mr S said a solicitor told him, but I disagree that banks are obliged to 
release funds within the limited timeframes he described. 
HSBC admit they should have closed Mr S accounts soon after releasing the funds they 
held. I appreciate Mr S would have been frustrated by trying to access his accounts during 
this time, when this could have been avoided if HSBC had acted sooner.
HSBC offered £100 to make up for what happened. I find this a fair sum. I say this because 
while blocking Mr S accounts would have been frustrating for him, its clear he held another 
payment account elsewhere and his HSBC accounts didnt hold substantive funds after early 
December. I also find that much of Mr S frustration is because he doesnt know why his 
accounts were blocked and closed. I understand why, but HSBC werent obliged to tell him 
its reasons.
HSBC closed Mr S accounts quite a number of weeks after releasing his funds. They didnt 
allow Mr S access to the accounts during a notice period, so his accounts were in effect 
closed immediately. But whether or not HSBC ought to have given Mr S a notice period, he 
still had use of another payment account, and as he hasnt managed to open another bank 
account elsewhere, Im not persuaded a notice period would have made a difference to him 
finding an alternate bank account.
Mr S believes HSBC closing his accounts stopped him opening bank accounts elsewhere. 
HSBC say they havent recorded anything externally in the way Mr S believes, and I havent 
seen evidence to show they have. So, Im not satisfied HSBC actions have stopped him 
opening accounts up elsewhere.Putting things right
Subject to Mr S accepting this decision, I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay him £100 if they 
havent already paid him this compensation.
My final decision
My decision is I uphold Mr S complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc must pay compensation 
to Mr S according to my above instruction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman