DRN-1830454
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened 
Mrs B took out a credit card in November 1995. At the same time as taking out her credit 
card she was sold a PPI policy by Barclays.
The policy cost 0.70p per £100 of the balance on Mrs Bs credit card. A successful claim 
on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance on the credit card for up to 
12 months per claim if Mrs B was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mrs B made it clear 
in her application she wanted the policy and that it provided a useful benefit. Mrs B 
disagreed. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mrs 
Bs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mrs B she had a choice in taking the policy and that she 
chose to take it. I dont know what was discussed with Mrs B at the time she was sold the 
policy but Ive seen a copy of her original credit card application where she was given the 
option to select to take PPI or decline it. I can see Mrs B selected to take PPI on the 
application form because there is a tick next to the Yes option. If Mrs B didnt want PPI 
there was the option to decline PPI below this. 
Mrs B says someone else couldve ticked the PPI box. I can see that the application form 
contains personal information about Mrs B so I think Mrs B was involved in completing the 
application form and I dont think she wouldve signed the application form without reading it 
first. So I think she wouldve understood she didnt have to take PPI to have the credit card. 
And I think PPI was likely applied to her account because she chose to take it by ticking the 
Yes box  I havent seen anything to suggest otherwise.
Barclays says the credit card application was taken out in branch. Mrs B insists it was by 
post. But to be fair to Mrs B Im going to treat the sale as if Barclays advised Mrs B to take 
PPI  this puts her in the best position. What this means is that Barclays not only had to 
provide information about the policy in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mrs B 
could make an informed choice about buying it. It also had to make sure that if it were to 
recommend the policy that it was suitable to her needs and circumstances.I dont know if Barclays did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mrs B for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and although Mrs B suffered from a pre-existing 
medical condition she has told us that it didnt affect her day to day living. So I dont 
think exclusions relating to this condition wouldve stopped her buying the policy. And 
it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the other main exclusions in 
the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mrs B says she was had savings which she could use to make 
her repayments if she couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of this 
and for potentially longer covering her for up to 12 months if she was unable to work 
or lost her job. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs B in her 
circumstances.
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to her at the time. 
And if she no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled it.
 
I also need to consider whether Barclays gave Mrs B information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not 
she wanted to take the policy out.
I dont know if Barclays did provide all the proper information but even if it hadnt for 
the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mrs B has told us about 
her circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the policy if shed been 
given all the proper information on the policy. Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay 
back the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman