DRN-2474591
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled their 
claim for medical assistance and repatriation under their travel policy. 
Since it was Mrs R who had all the dealings with UKI for simplicity I shall mainly refer to her 
throughout.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R were on holiday abroad in Central America. Mr R fell in his hotel room 
sustaining a double fracture to his femur which necessitated surgery and repatriation home 
via air ambulance. He was then admitted to hospital in the UK for further treatment. 
Mr and Mrs R had this travel policy through their bank account. 
Mrs R said from the start after she noticed UKI of their need for help, the service provided to 
her and Mr R was simply dreadful. She had to consistently chased everything which caused 
an excessive level of stress and anxiety. She believed it was only after her family took to 
social media and she threatened legal action that UKI moved things forward.
UKI did agree its service was below what should have been expected and ultimately offered 
£500 compensation. Mrs R didnt think this was enough as she felt £5,000 would be more 
appropriate so she brought her complaint to us. 
The investigator upheld it and said that UKI should pay £750 compensation. Neither UKI nor 
Mrs R agreed. UKI thought its offer of £500 to be acceptable. Mrs R was of the view that if 
she was offered £1,500 compensation that would then be acceptable.
Consequently, Mr and Mrs Rs complaint was passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as the investigator. Ill 
now explain why. This is now essentially a dispute over the compensation which UKI should 
pay given the distress and upset caused to Mr and Mrs R by its handling of the claim for 
medical assistance and repatriation. So that is what I shall concentrate on.
Having listened to the call recordings there is no doubt in my mind that Mrs R went through 
an excessively stressful time. Much of that was surrounding the fact that Mr R was left on a 
trolley for so long once he was taken to the hospital and further that he then developed bed 
sores following his operation. None of it was helped by the delays of UKIs medical team in 
sorting out the funding for medical treatment with the hospital, Mrs Rs accommodation and 
generally keeping her updated as to what was happening, more so in getting them back to 
the UK. Further there was even more delay when Mr and Mrs R returned home as the 
medical reports were needed for his medical team.  
It was a very distressing experience. However not all of it is simply because of what UKI did 
or didnt do. Having such a serious injury abroad is exceptionally distressing on its own. 
Further part of the initial delay was down to the hospital also and its failures in dealing with 
UKI. And UKI wasnt responsible for Mr R very sadly developing weeping bedsores following 
his operation his medical attendants were. 
 
The rules under which Im empowered to decide compensation does not permit me to punish 
or fine businesses as that is only permitted by the regulator namely the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The amount suggested by the investigator falls into our substantial bracket which I 
consider is appropriate here. Its right to consider the trouble, distress and upset caused was 
substantial. However, I dont consider £1,500 to be fair as thats more akin to punishing UKI 
for its mistakes. Further I dont consider the sum of £500 offered by UKI to be enough either. 
£750 is an amount of compensation I have awarded previously in similar cases also.
Therefore, I consider this amount to be fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs R the sum of £750 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman