DRN-4322321
The complaint
Mr S complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE wont cover food costs incurred after it 
accepted his travel insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator, and for these 
reasons:
Mr Ss brother isnt covered under the policy. However, under the emergency medical 
and repatriation expenses cover for Mr S, this includes extra accommodation (room 
only) for someone to stay with you and travel home with you if this is deemed 
necessary by a doctor and agreed by our medical officer. 
Great Lakes agreed to let Mr Ss brother stay with him as Mr S needed to remain 
abroad to receive medical treatment, and it covered the cost of his brothers 
accommodation. That was in line with the policy terms. However, the policy doesnt 
cover food for the companion. I therefore dont require Great Lakes to cover Mr Ss 
brothers food costs.
Mr S says that his brother wouldnt have agreed to remain abroad if hed known his 
food costs wouldnt be covered. Mr S thinks if that had happened then Great Lakes 
would have had to arrange an alternative, presumably by paying someone local. 
However, the purpose of the cover is to allow someone known to the insured to 
remain abroad with them whilst they are receiving medical treatment. If no one were 
able to remain abroad with an insured person, then Great Lakes would not need to 
find someone local to be their companion.
Mr S also says that his brother cut short his own holiday in order to be his 
companion. However, Mr Ss brother isnt covered under this policy, and so Great 
Lakes didnt need to consider whether Mr Ss brother had effectively curtailed his 
holiday under this policy. 
Mr S also wants Great Lakes to pay for his evening meals for two nights. The policy 
says if an insureds stay has to be extended, then it will cover extra accommodation 
(room only). Again, it doesnt say that food is covered. I therefore dont require Great 
Lakes to pay for Mr Ss food either.
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr S, but Im satisfied Great Lakes refusal to cover 
the food costs was in line with the policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman