DRN-3117163
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as N has complained that Gauntlet Risk Management Ltd trading 
as Gauntlet Group charged them more than they should have done when they arranged 
motor fleet and associated insurance policies for them in 2019. Mrs P, a director of N, has 
brought the complaint on Ns behalf. N is represented in the complaint by Mr S. 
What happened
N had a motor fleet insurance policy and two associated policies through Gauntlet which 
were due for renewal on 1 September 2019. An employee at Gauntlet, who Ill refer to as A, 
discussed renewal and new policy options with Mr S. Mr S eventually agreed to go ahead 
with a new motor fleet policy and two additional policies providing additional covers, as 
opposed to renewing Ns existing policies. Mr S has said that he did this on the 
understanding the premiums were net of commission, with Gauntlet just charging a fee, as 
this had been the arrangement in previous years with Gauntlet. However, A arranged the 
new policies on the basis Gauntlet received commission and a fee.
Mr S has said he discovered that Gauntlet had received commission in 2019 through
discussions when the policy came up for renewal in 2020 with the person he used to deal
with at Gauntlet. This person, wholl Ill refer to as C, left Gauntlet in November 2018. Mr S
complained to Gauntlet and said he wanted the commission refunded. Gauntlet said they
had made it clear the policies had been arranged in 2019 with commission, plus a fee.
Gauntlet did however acknowledge that Mr S had called about a month after renewal in 2019
to check whether theyd received commission and had been incorrectly told by A they had
not.
Mrs P asked us to consider Ns complaint. And it was considered by one of our investigators.
He asked Gauntlet to comment on the discussion Mr S had with A in 2019 about a month
after renewal. Gauntlet responded by saying they accepted Mr S had been provided with
incorrect information at this time and they offered £100 in compensation for any
inconvenience this had caused to N. Our investigator said he thought payment of £100 in
compensation was a fair and reasonable outcome to Ns complaint. Mr S didnt agree with
this and thought Gauntlet should rebate the commission they received for arranging Ns
policies. And, as he disagreed Mr S has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I spoke to C who said he handled Ns policies in some previous years through Gauntlet, as 
well as in 2018. And he has since taken N back on as a client at a different firm. And hes 
explained that he always arranged Ns policy for a flat fee, net of commission or with any 
commission Gauntlet received being rebated. He explained this was because N were a low 
maintenance client. 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 October 2021 and I set out what Id provisionally decided 
as follows:
Theres nothing in the correspondence between Mr S and A prior to Mr S agreeing to go
ahead with the new policies in 2019 to suggest commission was discussed or that Mr S
asked what commission Gauntlet was going to receive. If Mr S had asked, under the rules
applicable at the time, Gauntlet would have been obliged to disclose this. However, the fact
there is no record of a discussion about it doesnt mean it wasnt discussed. And I also have
to bear in mind that for many years previously it seems Gauntlet had allowed N the benefit of
their policy being arranged net of commission or rebated the commission and just charged a
fee. So, I think if they werent going to do this in 2019, having done it for so many years, they
needed to make this clear to Mr S. And its clear A didnt do this from what she said in an
email to C when he took N back on as client through a new brokerage in 2020. In this email
to another intermediary involved in the transaction she said the following:
I think this might transfer to C now. There is a dispute with regards to last years costs. I
quoted him a total price inclusive of tax and fee. The previous year when C held it it was net
plus fee. C has pointed this out to the client and he isnt happy. I simply didnt go into enough
detail about it so its (sic) my fault  we just agreed a total. If you get a transfer letter in then
you can transfer it. Sorry for any inconvenience this has caused.
So its clear from what A has said she thought shed not done enough to explain the
arrangements and costs to Mr S. And this supports the view that having arranged the
policies net of commission or with commission rebated in previous years she should have
explained clearly to Mr S if this wasnt the basis for the new policies in 2019.
Ive not seen a note of the call Mr S made to A about a month after renewal in 2019 to query
whether Gauntlet had received commission because Gauntlet dont have a note of this or a
recording of it. So Im not sure how Gauntlet actually knows Mr S made this call. But this call
does suggest Mr S was under the impression that Gauntlet werent going to get commission,
but something prompted him to check this. And it seems it could have been the invoices N
received in 2109 that prompted Mr S to check. This is because both invoices referred to
what was due as PREMIUM INCLUDES COMMISSION/FEES. And I think its fair to say
this doesnt make it clear it included both fees and commission. It leaves open the possibility
only one or the other was included. And  of course  when Mr S checked he was told
Gauntlet hadnt received commission, so he didnt take the matter any further.
So  as things stand  I dont think Gauntlet did enough to make it clear to Mr S that they
were receiving commission for arranging Ns policies. And this means I need to consider
whether this prejudiced Ns position in any way. And I think it did. This is because I think if
Gauntlet had made this clear Mr S would have insisted that they rebate the commission they
were to receive or agreed the policies net of commission with the insurer concerned. And if
Gauntlet had refused to do this, which seems highly unlikely to me, bearing in mind theyd
been doing it for many years, I think Mr S would have moved brokers and found one that
could arrange the policies for N for the same premiums net of commission or rebate the
commission.
This means I think N has lost out financially to the extent of the commission Gauntlet
received for the policies they arranged in 2019 due to their failure to meet their obligations to
them. Therefore, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to Ns complaint is for Gauntlet to
rebate all the commission it received for arranging Ns policies in 2019 to N. I think Gauntlet
should also pay interest on the amount due from the date N paid the invoices for the policies
to the date they make the rebate at 8% per annum simple. This is because N have been
without funds they should have had and need to also been compensated for this. 8% is the
rate of interest we normally award in this type of situation.
I gave both parties until 21 October to respond to my provisional decision. Mr S responded 
to say he had nothing further to add and provided some additional information at our 
request. Hes said N was insured through Gauntlet between 2010 and 2013 and dealt with C 
each time his existing policies came up for renewal in these years. He has further explained 
that he used other brokers between 2014 and 2016 and then went back to Gauntlet in 2017 
and dealt with C. Hes also provided information to confirm that at renewal this year his existing broker discounted their commission so that in effect they only received a £1,000 fee 
for arranging policies for N. 
Gauntlet has responded to say it doesnt agree with what Ive provisionally decided. Theyve 
pointed out that I appear to believe that N was a client of Gauntlet from 2005, which was not 
the case. And theyve provided evidence to show that N only came to them as client in 2017. 
Gauntlet have also said that Mr S was a professional buyer and was clearly aware that 
commission and/or fees are charged by insurance brokers. And they think theyve 
demonstrated he was aware this was the case with them in 2019. And they also think their 
documentation was clear on this in 2019. Theyve said the terms they negotiated were more 
attractive than others available even with a fee being charged in addition to commission. 
Gauntlet have gone on to point out that A did a lot for N at renewal in 2019 and the very 
attractive deal she obtained warranted commission, plus a fee. Theyve said Mr S had every 
opportunity to use another broker to put them under price pressure, but he knew A had done 
a good job and was happy with the terms shed obtained. And they are clear that they would 
have resisted any request from Mr S to reduce their earnings, as working at a reduced fee is 
not unreasonable in year one and was unusual in year two, but it would have been 
unreasonable to expect them to do this in year three. 
A has also commented in some detail on what happened when Ns policies came up for 
renewal in 2019. Shes said Mr S said in writing she was the most straightforward broker 
hed dealt with. And the selling rates she quoted over the telephone were recorded as gross, 
as thats how she always quotes. She thinks this is simple to understand, as inclusive of 
Insurance Premium Tax and fees and sets out the total cost the client has to pay. 
Shes explained she did not have a clear run at keeping Ns business in 2019, as Mr S said 
he was obtaining a quote from his previous broker. And the loss ratio was 200% on Ns 
policies and they also wanted cover for Mr Ss two sons, who were young drivers, on high 
performance cars. And  I presume from what A has said, and I can also see from her 
emails at the time, that this made obtaining a competitive price for Ns policies more difficult. 
So, when she called to deliver the price, Mr S was happy, as the best quote hed got from 
the market was £39,000. And  in part because the cover shes arranged included his sons, 
he was elated and probably the happiest client she had renewed that year. 
A has gone on to point out that Mr S could have appointed another broker on his existing 
policies. And I think what she means is this broker could have worked on a £1,000 fee and 
discounted their commission, and this would have matched the price Gauntlet had offered. 
But this cover would not have included Mr Ss sons. 
A has said at renewal in 2020 when Mr S questioned the fact they were retaining 
commission and their fee she offered to remove the fee as a gesture of goodwill and invited 
renewal on a commission only basis. But she has said she would not have reverted back to 
a fee only basis in 2019 as she held the best rate for Ns motor fleet policy in the market.  
Finally, A has admitted her notes were not as comprehensive as they should have been in 
2019, as she was out of the office on annual leave at the time Ns policies came up for 
renewal. But she doesnt feel she was in any way unclear with regards to the cost to N. And 
she made Mr S an offer he not only accepted, but was extremely happy with.  
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted what Gauntlet have said and  in particular As explanation of what happened 
in 2019. However, I do not think Mr S could have been clear on whether Gauntlet were 
receiving commission at renewal in 2019, as he called around a month after renewal to 
clarify it. And  from the evidence available  it seems he was given incorrect information, as 
he was told Gauntlet had only received a fee and not commission. Also, A herself admitted 
in a later email that she wasnt clear enough with Mr S. 
In addition to this, I dont think Gauntlets invoice was clear enough. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, it stated PREMIUM INCLUDES COMMISSION/FEES. And this could 
mean one or the other or both were included. And it seems likely that the lack of clarity is 
what prompted Mr S to call a month after renewal to check. Obviously, if hed been told  as 
he should have been  that Gauntlet had received commission, plus a fee, there isnt 
anything he could really have done, other than complain at this stage. But, I think the fact he 
didnt, shows he was given incorrect information and was under the impression Gauntlet 
hadnt received commission in 2019. And Mr Ss later actions show that he wouldnt have 
been happy about continuing with Gauntlet in 2019 if he knew they were receiving 
commission and a fee. 
So, I still think Mr S was under the impression when he agreed to go ahead with the policies 
through Gauntlet in 2019 that they would only receive a fee, because A hadnt made it clear 
to him this wasnt the case when she should have done. 
Its difficult to know what Mr S would have done if hed been given the correct information at 
renewal in 2019, as Gauntlet were offering a competitive price for Ns policies. But I think it is 
most likely he wouldnt have been happy and would have tried to get Gauntlet to discount 
the price by their commission. Gauntlet have said they wouldnt have done this, but Im not 
convinced of this. This is because  despite what A has said in response to my provisional 
decision, she offered to proceed at renewal in 2020 by rebating half Gauntlets commission 
(£1,362.50) and not charge a fee. This means Gauntlet would only have received £1,362.50 
if Mr S had decided to stick with them in 2020. So It seems possible to me they would have 
offered a similar or better deal in 2019 if Mr S had pushed them. So I do think its likely N 
have lost out as result of Gauntlets failings. I appreciate Gauntlet doesnt agree on this 
point, but what theyve said is with the benefit of hindsight.
Putting things right
What I do know is that because Gauntlet werent clear with Mr S in 2019 on commission and 
fees, they denied him the opportunity to negotiate and possibly obtain a deal at the same 
premiums net of commission for N. And I think this means the fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint is for Gauntlet to rebate the commission it received for Ns policies in 2019 
to N and add interest at 8% per annum simple. This is on the basis I think it is possible Mr S 
could have achieved a deal that would have resulted in N paying the same in premiums less 
commission with only a £1,000 fee.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Ns 
complaint.Gauntlet Risk Management Ltd trading as Gauntlet Group must rebate the commission they 
received for arranging Ns policies in 2019 to N and add interest at 8% simple from the date 
N paid the invoices to the date it makes the rebate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman