DRN-4374483
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs N are unhappy that Astrenska Insurance Limited declined a claim they made 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs N purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which provided cover to 
them between 7 December 2022 and 17 December 2022, for a trip they were taking abroad. 
The policy provided cover for various pre-departure and post-departure risks.
Mr A and Mrs N have explained that a relative was driving them to the airport on 
7 December 2022, to catch their outbound flight. But the car they were travelling in 
developed a flat tyre  and this wasnt fixed in time for them to get to the airport in time for 
the original flight. So, they missed the flight.
Because Mr A and Mrs N missed the flight they rebooked another flight, at a different airport, 
with the new ticket costing them £1,156. They also had to pay for long-stay car parking at 
this airport  which cost them £313.
Mr A and Mrs N received a partial refund for the original flights they missed, from the airline. 
But theyve said they had still suffered a loss, due to purchasing new flights and needed to 
park the car at the airport. Mr A and Mrs N therefore made a claim under their travel 
insurance policy.
Astrenska considered this claim but didnt agree to provide settlement for the loss. It said 
that in order to successfully claim for missed departure, Mr A and Mrs N needed to evidence 
that their loss was because of a reason covered under the missed departure section of the 
policy. 
Astrenska said Mr A and Mrs N hadnt provided evidence that the reason they missed their 
flight was because of vehicle breakdown, which was a covered reason for missed departure. 
Astrenska said to reconsider the claim it would need to see supporting evidence of the 
vehicle breakdown causing the missed departure. It listed supporting evidence as:
Police or motoring authorities reporting stating any delay and the cause
Evidence of vehicle recovery or repair
Evidence of the costs of additional accommodation and transport.
Mr A and Mrs N didnt feel this was fair. So, they raised a complaint about this. Astrenska 
considered the complaint and maintained its position on the matter, saying it had declined 
the claim correctly at this time. But that Mr A and Mrs Ns claim was potentially covered 
under missed departure, if they could provide evidence that the incident occurred  as per 
the bullet points above.
Mr A and Mrs N remained dissatisfied, and so referred their complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
Astrenska had currently declined the claim in line with the policy terms and had reasonably 
asked Mr A and Mrs N for evidence to support their claim.
Mr A and Mrs N didnt agree. They raised a number of different points  explaining why they 
didnt agree. This included:
That Mr A and Mrs N had evidenced they had booked a new flight, and incurred car 
parking charges, at substantial expense and effort to them
That they felt it was unfair for there to be a requirement for the flat tyre to have been 
reported to authorities.
That their relative didnt have a vehicle recovery policy, and there were no terms in 
the travel insurance policy that specified this had to be the case.
There were no terms in the policy to say that they werent allowed to use a private 
car to travel to the airport.
Because Mr A and Mrs N didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Astrenska to do 
anything more. 
I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr A and Mrs N. Its clear they feel strongly 
about the matter. But Id like to reassure the parties that Ive considered all information from 
both parties when coming to my decision. However, in my decision Ive only referred to what 
I consider necessary to explain my reasoning. That isnt intended as a discourtesy. But is 
instead a reflection of the informal information nature of this service.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Astrenska acted in line with these requirements when it declined 
to settle Mr A and Mrs Ns claim. 
Ive also reviewed Mr A and Mrs Ns policy documents, to see what cover this provides. 
From doing so, I can see that Mr A and Mrs Ns policy does provide cover for missed 
departure, in certain circumstances.
This section explains it will cover additional travel and accommodation costs if departure 
from the UK is missed for several reasons, including the following:
The vehicle you are travelling in is involved in an accident, breaks down, is delayed by an 
incident that causes traffic jams are road closures.
Mr A and Mrs N have explained their loss is covered by the above  because the car they 
were in broke down  it got a flat tyre on the way to the airport. Astrenska doesnt dispute the above is a covered reason under the policy. So, I havent 
needed to consider the point any further. But Astrenska has said Mr A and Mrs N need to 
provide evidence to show this covered reason happened in their case, for the claim to be 
accepted. So, Ive thought about whether that is a reasonable thing for Astrenska to require. 
And Im satisfied it is.
I say this because it is the duty of the policyholder to prove they have a valid claim under the 
policy. And the policy clearly explains what evidence is needed to support a claim for missed 
departure. It details this as the following:
Police or motoring authorities reporting stating any delay and the cause
Evidence of vehicle recovery or repair
Evidence of the costs of additional accommodation and transport.
Mr A and Mrs N havent provided any documentary evidence to support their claim at this 
time, in line with the above. For that reason, I think Astrenska acted fairly in saying the loss 
hasnt been proven at this stage, and in declining the claim. 
Mr A and Mrs N have said their relative didnt have vehicle recovery insurance, and the 
matter wasnt notified to the police or motoring authorities. So, they dont feel it is fair for 
Astrenska to require these things. But the above list doesnt mean Mr A and Mrs N need to 
provide everything noted there. Instead, they need to provide the things relevant to their 
particular circumstances.
So, whilst they may not be able to provide evidence of a recovery, or of notification to the 
authorities, there are other pieces of evidence the policy says Mr A and Mrs N can provide to 
Astrenska for it to reconsider the position.
The above list says that Mr A and Mrs N can provide evidence of a repair being undertaken 
 so evidence of the tyre being repaired or changed/replaced after the flat tyre, whether this 
was done by a recovery agent or privately. I dont think its unreasonable for Astrenska to 
require those things  given this would evidence the situation Mr A and Mrs N have 
explained.
Mr A and Mrs N have also said that there is nothing in the policy to say they cant use a 
private car to travel to the airport. But Im aware this isnt being disputed. Astrenska just 
need evidence, as detailed above, in order to evidence what happened during the private car 
journey. So, this point doesnt alter the outcome of this complaint. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Astrenska Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman