DRN-3709984
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Lex Autolease Ltd handled his request to collect a car at the end
of a hire agreement.
What happened
Its worth firstly noting that there is a lengthy history to this case. I dont intend to list all
contact, nor potential contact, between Mr M and Lex. Instead, Ill summarise what
happened with what I consider to be the key facts.
In February 2016 Mr M took a hire agreement with Lex to acquire a new car. This was taken
over four years.
Around March 2020, Mr M asked Lex to collect the car. He didnt receive a response and
complained to Lex. It issued a final response in May 2020. Lex upheld Mr M complaint,
offered him £100 and explained hed be contacted to remove a private plate once the DVLA
was available to process this.
Around June 2020 Lex contacted Mr M to arrange transfer of the plate. Mr M says he asked
for further details about this, but then didnt hear back from Lex.
The car remained on Mr M drive. In August 2021, Mr M says he heard from Lex for the first
time since June 2020. It appears Lex had been sending Mr M arrears letters and in August
2021 it sent him a letter saying the contract had been terminated.
Mr M complained again to Lex. Lex sent Mr M a form to arrange transfer of the private plate
and requested a payment of £80. Mr M says this was the first time he received this form and
that he completed and returned it.
At the end of September 2021 Lex issued a final response. It said, in summary, that Lex
thought the COVID-19 pandemic had contributed towards the car not being collected. But, it
said this didnt justify why the car still hadnt been picked up. It said documents were sent to
Mr M to transfer the private plate, but these hadnt been returned. It asked Mr M to call a
specific team to arrange this.
Lex said no markers had been added to Mr M credit file, and all of the invoices raised on the
account since March 2020 were to be credited off. It offered Mr M £150.
In December 2021 Mr M referred the complaint to our service. He said the car still hadnt
been collected. He said the battery was dead and the car was blocking his garage. And he
said he was still waiting to hear from Lex about the situation.
Lex said it had sent Mr M a form to transfer the plate and had not received it. Mr M said he
had sent this back.
Our investigator then issued an opinion. She said, in summary, that she thought from around
June 2020 Mr M was aware that for the car to be collected, the issue with the private plate
had to be resolved. She said she thought Mr M hadnt proactively arranged for this to be
completed, so the £150 offered for the delays was reasonable.
Mr M responded and said he was waiting for Lex to contact him about the plate. He said hed
tried to get in touch with it several times but couldnt get a response. And he said he didnt
receive the form to transfer the plate until August 2021, which he returned with a cheque.
Our investigator explained this didnt change her opinion.
In February 2022 Mr M told Lex to collect the car with the private plate still on it. A collection
agent came out to the car to pick it up but couldnt take it as it wasnt running. Lex then said
it had received the form to transfer the private plate but hadnt received the £80.
At the end of February 2022 Mr M again asked Lex to collect the car without the plate. And
our service also passed on this request. Lex then told Mr M the retention of the plate had
been processed. But, it still said it was waiting for the £80 to be paid. Mr M told Lex in March
2022 that he had confirmed several times to it that he wanted the car collected with the plate
still on it.
Mr M complained again to Lex. It issued another final response at the end of March 2022.
This reiterated what the previous final response said - and added that Lex had tried to call
Mr M several times to assist with the private plate issue. It said any invoices Mr M had
received from October 2021 were valid and remain payable.
In August 2022 Lex confirmed that the car hadnt been collected and it had been trying to
contact Mr M to arrange this.
I sent Mr M and Lex a provisional decision on 7 September 2022. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mr M complains about the administration of a hire agreement. Entering into regulated hire
agreements such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr M
complaint against Lex.
As I explained at the start of the background here, there is a long history of contact, and
disputed contact, between Mr M and Lex. I am not going to comment on all of this in my
decision  instead Ill focus on what I think are the key points and the crux of this complaint.
But, I want to reassure Lex, and Mr M, that Ive carefully considered all of the information
and evidence on this case, even if I havent specifically mentioned it.
It isnt in dispute that an initial delay was caused, at least in part, by Lex. I say this as Lex
acknowledged this and offered Mr M compensation in its first two final responses for this
reason. So, I dont think I need to consider this earlier timeframe in detail.
Its worth noting here that since then, there has been a lot of back and forth between Lex
and Mr M. I do not intend to make findings on what happened at every point here. I think a
fair summary of the situation is that Mr M says he has attempted to contact Lex at multiple
points to arrange collection of the car. And he says he has returned the paperwork required
to transfer the plate, with payment. Lex says it has been trying to contact Mr M to arrange
collection of the car but he hasnt responded. It says that there was a significant delay in
Mr M returning paperwork and he hasnt made a payment to transfer the plate  which is
what has caused the delays.
There has very clearly been a significant breakdown in communication here. But
fundamentally, I dont think its acceptable for either party that it has taken nearly two and a
half years to collect a car at the end of a hire agreement.Ive thought very carefully about whats happened here. Having done so, I think both parties
are somewhat to blame.
I think Lex shouldve done more initially to collect the car when Mr M asked it to and Im
satisfied it caused delays here.
Im satisfied Lex knew the car wasnt running in February 2022 when it sent collection agents
to get it, as Mr M had told it this several times. I dont follow why the car could be collected in
February 2022 with the information Lex had, but not later. Lex says it was delaying collecting
the car for some time as it was awaiting Mr M to pay it £80. I dont make a finding here on
whether this was the case  as Mr M says he did pay it. But given the agreement was for
nearly £800 a month, either way it seems it wouldve been pragmatic to either collect the car
and write this off or to invoice Mr M for this later.
On the other hand, I agree with our investigator that Mr M was aware of the issue with the
private plate for some time. I think he couldve been more proactive at points in arranging for
this to be transferred. I also think, while he said he was waiting for Lex to get in touch with
him, he should not have left this for around a year and instead contacted Lex during this
period to move things forward.
The crux of this complaint, and what I need to decide, is given that Im satisfied both parties
couldve done more here, is it fair and reasonable that Mr M should now be charged nearly
£800 a month for a car he hasnt driven in around 30 months?
All things considered, I dont think this feels fair to me. On the other hand, while Im satisfied
Mr M has been caused distress and inconvenience because of whats happened, it also
doesnt feel fair to ask Lex to make any further award here given the overall circumstances.
What I think would be fair and reasonable for both parties is for the car to be collected and
for Mr M not to owe Lex anything for the time the car has been with him since the end of the
contract. I also dont think this situation should be reflected on Mr M credit file.
Its important to note here, that if there is any reason Lex cannot collect the car  such as
issues with the DVLA, then it will need to let me know specific details of this before I issue
my final decision. And, if the case is upheld, Mr M needs to proactively engage with
arranging a time and date with Lex and/or its collection agent for the car to be picked up.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any further information or evidence before I 
made my final decision. 
Lex responded and asked for some details about collecting the car.
Mr M came back to us and was unhappy with the decision. He said I hadnt considered the 
delays and lack of correspondence from Lex. He said Lex had already confirmed he wouldnt 
be charged any further payments going forward and provided an email he said showed this. 
And he said he should get £20 a day for storage fees for the time hes had the car and 
additional compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive thought about all of the information about this case again. And, having done so, I still 
think it should be upheld. But I dont agree with what Mr M suggested to put things right. Ill 
explain why.
Mr M said Lex had confirmed nothing further would be charged in relation to the car. And he 
provided an email from June 2020 which he said showed this. But, Lex confirmed it was 
charging Mr M monthly rentals from October 2021. So, I still think my direction to remove 
any arrears is valid and of benefit to Mr M.
I want to reassure Mr M that I have considered the whole picture here. But, I still think delays 
were caused by both sides. Mr M says he made relentless requests to collect the car. But I 
disagree. There were long periods where he wasnt in touch with Lex.
Ive considered Mr Ms request for storage fees. But, I havent seen that it was costing Mr M 
£20 a day to keep the car, nor any other evidence of storage costs to be reimbursed here. 
For the time hes had the car after the initial attempt at returning it, £20 a day would work out 
at over £18,500. This doesnt feel fair to me given whats happened.
Ive carefully considered everything else Mr M said in response to my provisional decision. 
But, I still think what I proposed to put things right is reasonable under all of the 
circumstances. 
Neither party raised any objection to the car being collected with the private plate still on  so 
this can be done.
Finally, Id like to again politely remind both Mr M and Lex to proactively engage with each 
other to arrange a suitable date to collect the car. And Lex will need to make sure the car 
can be appropriately moved given its a non-runner.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Lex Autolease Ltd to do the 
following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Remove any arrears from the account from when Mr M attempted to return the car in 
March 2020
Remove any adverse information from Mr M credit file in relation to this agreement
Collect the car at a time and date suitable for Mr M at no cost to him
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman