DRN-4297839
The complaint
Mr G complains that Creation Financial Services Limited unfairly closed his account, didnt 
credit his points, a free night stay voucher or refund the annual fee. Hed like his benefits 
credited and compensation for the impact and time taken to resolve the issue. 
What happened
Mr G had a rewards club premium credt card account with Creation which included an 
annual fee of £99. The card included the ability to earn reward points, which could be 
redeemed for hotel stays or experiences, and a hotel voucher for a free night stay.
In September 2021, Creation sent Mr G a letter informing him that his credit card account 
would be closed in December 2021. And they wouldnt be crediting him the points for the last 
statement period, his free night stay voucher or a refund of the unused annual fee.
Mr G compained to Creation about the closure of his account. Creation didnt uphold his 
complaint. They said they acted fairly in closing Mr Gs account, not refunding the annual 
fee, crediting the points or the hotel voucher. Mr G wasnt happy with Creations response 
and brought his compaint to our service. He said that hed spent enough on his card to be 
entitled to two hotel vouchers, between 2020 and 2022. He also said that he wanted the 
points he was owed and compensation.
After Mr G brought his complaint to our service Creation made an offer to resolve Mr Gs 
complaint. They offered Mr G a pro- rata refund of his annual fee, and the points not 
credited. Creation also offered Mr G a free night voucher based on his spending for 2020- 
2021. It didnt offer him a voucher for 2021  2022 because it said Mr G hadnt spent enough 
on his card to qulaify for one. 
Mr G didnt accept the offer. He pointed out that Creation hadnt offered compensation for 
the time, hassle and inconvenience caused and having to raise a complaint with our service. 
And having to wait to be refunded the account fee and awarded his points. Mr G also said he 
had spent enough on his card  over £10,000, to be entitled to a second hotel voucher. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. The investigator asked Mr G to 
provide evidence that he would have met the threshold required to get the second voucher. 
In response, Mr G provided some screenshots of his account which he said showed he 
should have recevied two hotel vouchers because he had spent the required amount on his 
card. The investigator also asked Creation for a breakdown of Mr Gs spending and checked 
whether Mr G was entitled to two vouchers instead of one based on his spending. 
Creation responded and said that Mr Gs spend was as follows:
27 November 2020  27 November 2021 - £70,432.85
27 November 2021  27 November 2022 £2,052.10
Creation explained that although Mr G believed hed spent just over £10,000 during the last 
year he had his account, this was split into two anniversary dates (as above). So it said Mr G 
didnt qualify for another voucher from 27 November 2021 until his account was closed as 
hed only spent just over £2,000. Creation confirmed that it was happy to issue Mr G with a 
voucher for the period 2020  2021, a pro- rata refund of his account fee and his points, 
which it said had added to Mr Gs IHG account in April 2023.  
The investigator reviewed all the evidence and said that Creations offer was fair and 
reasonable. Creation accepted the investigators recommendations. Mr G disagreed. He said 
Creation hadnt done enough to put things right and should compensate him for having to 
spend time and effort chasing Creation and following up his complaint. And being without his  
points for so long. He also maintained that had had met the threshold to be eligible for a 
voucher for the period between November 2021 and when his account was closed.  
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Creation has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of 
detail with Mr G, but Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
Account closure
I understand that Mr G is unhappy Creation closed his account, it cant be pleasant being 
told you are no longer wanted as a customer. Creation can only close accounts in certain 
cirucumstances and if its in the terms and conditions of the account. Creation have relied on 
the terms and conditions when closing Mr Gs account. Ive reviewed the terms and they 
explain that Creation can close an account for any reason by giving 60 days notice. 
Having looked at all the information available to me, including Creations actions and the 
information its provided Im satisfied that Creations decision to close Mr Gs account  was 
reached legitimately and fairly. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and circumstances of 
this complaint, and Im satisfied Creation acted in line with them, so, it was entitled to close 
the account as it has already done. I appreciate this is disappointing for Mr G however, 
Creation have provided Mr G with the full notice period, so I cant say Creation have acted 
unfairly in taking the actions it did. Ive considered whether Creation need to offer any 
compensation in regard to the closure. But from what Ive seen the decision to close was 
reasonable. So, I wont be directing Creation to do anything more.
Annual fee, withholding of points and hotel voucher
Creation have offered to reimburse Mr Gs points and provide him with a pro rata refund of 
the £99 account fee. Im satisfied that Creation shouldnt have deprived Mr G of access to 
the points, and refund when initially closing the account. But Im pleased to see that they 
have now put this right. I understand that Creation has already reimbursed Mr G his points in April 2023.  But Mr G is still awaiting his annual fee refund and his hotel voucher. I note that 
Creation has agreed to pay Mr G a pro-rata refund of his annual fee, but I will make an 
award in that sum, of £5.15, and also direct Creation to issue Mr G with his voucher for the 
period covering 2020 - 2021, so that Mr G can enforce it should he need to do so.
Mr G says that Creation havent done enough to put things right. In particular, hes said that 
although Creation has now provided him with his points it has taken a long time for this to 
happen. I appreciate Mr G will likely be frustrated by the delay in the reward points being 
added to his account, but I think by adding them Creation have returned him to the position 
he would have been in otherwise. So, Im satisfied they dont need to do anything further 
than that to resolve this aspect of Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G says he is entitled to another voucher on top of the one hes now been offered by 
Creation. Hes said this is because he spent the required amount, of £10,000, since his 
account anniversary, which is 27 November each year. And hes provided me with 
screenshots of his account to support what hes said.  He says this shows as of December 
2021 hed spent just over £10,020.  Ive considered the information Mr G has provided. Ive 
also looked at the terms and conditions of the account and the statements of Mr Gs account 
to see if, as Mr G submits, he did qualify for another voucher. 
The terms state, If you spend £10,000 or more on purchases during the year (not including 
refunds, reversals, or charge backs) by the anniversary of the date your IHG Rewards Club 
premium Credit was issued, you will receive an Anniversary Night Voucher. So, this means 
that between 27 November 2021 and when Mr Gs account closed on 3 December 2021 
Mr G would had to have spent at least £10,000 to qualify for a hotel voucher. But from 
looking at Mr Gs statements, he spent much less than this - £2,052.10 to be exact. This 
means Mr G didnt qualify for the voucher, as he believes, so hes not entitled to one. 
Finally, Mr G has asked to be compensated for the time hes had to wait for his complaint to 
be resolved. But Id need to be satisfied that hes lost out and been caused inconvenience by 
not having his complaint resolved sooner. And on balance, I cant say this is the case. 
Therefore, I wont be awarding any compensation.
I should also explain that our awards are designed to reflect the actual loss, trouble, and 
upset caused to the consumer by something a financial business did wrong. We are not here 
to punish financial businesses. Nor can we award compensation as a means of punishing a 
business for a consumer bringing their complaint to this service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right Creation Financial 
Services Limited should:
Provide Mr G with his hotel voucher for the period 2020  2021
Pay Mr G £5.15
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman