DRN-1304819
 
The complaint
 Mrs R says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs R bought the policy in connection with a credit card that she took out some time 
between 1995 and 2000. Lloyds cant say for sure whether the PPI was added to the 
account at the same time as Mrs R applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R applied for her credit card some time between 1995 and 2000 and its possible 
that she bought PPI at the same time. But Lloyds doesnt know for sure if this is the 
case. Ive not seen anything to suggest the PPI was taken out after the card. So I 
think its most likely Mrs R bought the PPI at the same time as applying for her credit 
card.
I think its likely that Lloyds made Mrs R aware the PPI was optional and she chose 
to take it. I say this because from what we know about Lloyds sales processes 
between 1995 and 2000, Mrs R wouldve had to actively select the PPI during the 
credit card application process. So I think she wouldve known she had a choice 
about buying the PPI. 
Lloyds accepts that it probably recommended the PPI to Mrs R, but it doesnt look as 
if it was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Mrs R has told me she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she was off work 
sick, although she hasn't been able to tell me how much that sick pay was. But the 
PPI would've paid out in addition to Mrs R's employer benefits, and would've been 
useful to her if she couldn't work. And having the policy in place would've meant Mrs 
R could use her employer sick pay to cover other expenses. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs R would have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
I've noted what Mrs R has said about having her children, and how this would've 
affected her ability to claim on the policy. But it seems her children were born after 
she'd taken out the policy. From what I've seen and been told, there was nothing 
about Mrs R's circumstances at the point she bought the policy that meant she 
would've had difficulty claiming on it. So the point Mrs R has raised doesn't change 
my overall conclusions about the complaint. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman