DRN-2623774
The complaint
Mrs M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs M bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs M says the PPI wasnt properly explained when she took it out, and that AXA didnt 
give her a proper choice about buying it. Ive noted everything Mrs M has said. 
But I note that the credit agreement Mrs M signed was completed to show that she 
wanted the PPI. I accept its possible PPI wasnt discussed when Mrs M took out her 
store card, but its equally likely that it was  although I can understand why Mrs M may 
no longer remember this, given the amount of time thats passed since the policy was 
sold. 
Without anything else to support what Mrs M has told me, I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable for me to say that AXA didnt make her aware that the PPI was optional. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means Mrs M might have had to 
cover her repayments.
But even if AXA had recommended the policy to Mrs M, it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Even 
though Mrs M was entitled to employer sick pay and had some savings, the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to these. It wouldve allowed Mrs M to use her sick pay 
and savings to cover other expenses. So I think Mrs M wouldve had some use for the 
policy, despite her existing arrangements.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Mrs M would have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman