DRN-1789341
 
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about the multiple credit searches undertaken by Motorpoint Limited 
when he was discussing the possibility of acquiring a car through finance. He said he didn't 
authorise the searches and they had a negative impact on his credit fie which then had 
knock on effects.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Motorpoint provided Mr J with a screen print from its system which showed the third 
party box had been ticked. It said his would only happen if he had given his consent 
for his details to be sent to other lenders. Mr J said he didn't consent to this and that 
the box could have been ticked without his knowledge. Given the contrasting 
information provided I have considered what I think was most likely to have 
happened.
 
Mr J has agreed that he consented to the initial search. The initial finance application 
was declined. I find it reasonable that Motorpoint tried to source alternative finance. 
An alternative offer was put to Mr J but it was unaffordable for him. He didn't raise 
concerns at this time that a further lender had been approached which could suggest 
he was aware that Motorpoint would be in contact with other lenders.
 
However, given Mr J's testimony, I appreciate that he may not have been aware that 
multiple searches would appear on his credit file. Given this, I find it reasonable that 
Morotpoint took action to put Mr J back in the position he would have been had the 
additional searches not taken place. Motorpoint removed all the searches (apart from 
the initial search which Mr J agreed he consented to). It also agreed to refund Mr J 
the cost of acquiring his credit report. I find this a reasonable remedy.
 
Motorpoint also offered to pay Mr J £200 for any inconvenience or stress he had 
been caused. Mr J said this wasnt enough. He said the credit searches caused his 
credit score to drop so he couldn't access the loan he had intended to use to buy a 
car. 
 
I understand the comments Mr J has made but I cannot say that he was declined the 
loan solely because of the additional credit searches being on his credit file. 
Lenders take a number of factors into account when deciding whether or not to lend 
and I do not find that I can say that without the additional searches the loan would 
have been provided. 
Mr J also said that because he couldn't get the loan he needed to pay for taxis to 
start with and then borrowed from family to buy a lower value car. Motorpoint did try 
to source finance for Mr J and so I find it did what it was required. Mr J didn't accept 
the finance offer as it wasn't affordable. This reasonable, but I can't hold 
Motorpoint responsible for the decisions Mr J took after this. 
 
Overall, while I understand that Mr J is upset by the additional searches that were 
added to his credit file, I find that by removing the additional searches and offering to 
refund the credit report and pay £200 compensation, Motorpoint has done enough to 
resolve this complaint.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Motorpoint Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman