DRN-3603834
The complaint
Mr M complains about advice he received from Tideway Investment Partners LLP 
(Tideway) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr M is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr M.
What happened
Mr M approached Tideway in April 2016 for advice about his pension. He has said he was 
prompted to do so because colleagues of his had mentioned releasing money from their 
pensions. Tideway sent Mr M information about the service it offered as well as a fact find 
that it asked him to complete.
Mr M completed the fact find and emailed this back to Tideway. The covering email also said 
Mr M had considered other options and plans. It included information about other retirement 
provisions and savings he and his wife held, why they didnt want to use the savings and 
said that they thought their other pension provisions would be enough. It went on to say that 
by clearing debt now they could live happier and make decisions on investment and 
inheritance, including helping their children onto the property ladder. The email also said 
Mr M was concerned that the transfer value he had been offered would not last forever.
Tideway has also provided a copy of another email sent to it by Mr M which included an 
attachment called pension  my choice which gave further reasons Mr M wanted to 
transfer. This said Mr M was looking to release money as tax free cash (TFC) from his 
pension  primarily to clear unsecured debt, reduce his mortgage balance and complete 
some renovations with a view to increasing his homes value. It said clearing debts was now 
essential and hed already discussed options with the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) but 
entering into debt management plans or other arrangements was out of the question.
The details recorded by Mr M in the fact find showed he was coming up on his 55th birthday 
at the time of returning the document, married with two non-dependent children. He had an 
outstanding mortgage of £155,000 and unsecured debts of roughly £47,000. An annual 
income figure was recorded but no monthly income or expenditure figures were requested or 
filled in. Mr M wrote that, at the time of filling the fact find, his current annual expenditure 
exceeded his income. Mr M also recorded that he had a low-medium attitude to risk.
On 20 May 2016, Tideway advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP with a 
specific provider. It gave no advice at that time on how the funds should be invested after 
moving to the SIPP. Tideway has said that its process was to provide investment advice 
after the transfer had taken place.
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that transferring would 
give Mr M flexibility in terms of how he used his retirement funds as well as being able to 
leave the fund to beneficiaries of his choice in the event of his death. It also allowed him to 
take the maximum possible TFC at that time, to allow him to carry out his plans of reducing 
debt and renovating his home. And Tideway said it felt Mr M had sufficient capacity to take 
the risks associated as he wasnt planning on retiring until age 67, so could continue to 
contribute to another pension he held, and because he thought his other retirement 
provisions, including state pension, were likely to be enough to cover his income needs in 
retirement.
Mr M transferred the full value of his DB benefits (just under £280,000) to the SIPP in July 
2016, as recommended by Tideway. He took TFC of just under £70,000.
The pension fund was initially invested in cash. Tideway says it tried to contact Mr M 
several times, primarily by email, to explain this and to discuss investing appropriately. Mr M 
has confirmed he received these emails but has said he was suspicious of them as he 
believed, as the money had been transferred to a SIPP, it was already invested. So, he 
didnt respond. As a result, the money remained in cash.
Due to changes in Mr Ms personal circumstances he made a number of withdrawals from 
the SIPP, incurring tax each time, in the three years after the SIPP was established. The 
result of which was that the balance was entirely depleted by May 2019.
In October 2020, Mr M complained to Tideway that the advice it had given was unsuitable. In 
summary he didnt think it had done enough to understand his circumstances or explain 
other options potentially available that mayve been more appropriate.
Tideway didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it felt from the information provided 
that Mr M had a clear understanding of his circumstances and what he wanted to do and that 
it was entitled to rely on the information provided. It also felt it was clear Mr M was 
experiencing financial difficulty and the transfer and release of TFC was appropriate as it 
met his main objectives.
The complaint was subsequently referred to our service. Mr M said he didnt recall making a 
number of the statements about his circumstances at the time in the documents provided. 
And he felt the way they were worded suggested they were not his. He also said that, at the 
time of taking the advice, he was not in arrears with any of his payments, was not being 
pursued in respect of any of the debts and was managing his payments without issue.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. He felt the recommendation by Tideway 
to transfer was appropriate as it allowed Mr M to meet his objective of clearing debt which he 
felt was a priority. He did question whether the lack of investment advice meant the overall 
advice was unsuitable. But, as he was satisfied Tideway had tried to contact Mr M 
repeatedly to complete this process and he had not responded, he didnt think this meant the 
recommendation was wrong.
Mr M did not agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. I 
considered the complaint and issued a provisional decision in June 2022 explaining that I 
intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, 
explaining why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Tideways role wasnt simply to facilitate something that Mr M mightve thought he wanted or 
needed. It was to objectively consider all of the relevant information about his circumstances, 
goals and the options available  even if he may already have discounted some of these alternatives  and then provide him with robust, suitable financial advice, which was in his 
best interests. And this needed to be done with particular consideration to the fact that the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Tideway should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
Assessing Mr Ms circumstances
COBS 9.2 talks about Tideways obligations when assessing the suitability of its 
recommendation  which here was that Mr M transfer his pension benefits from his DB 
scheme to a SIPP. COBS 9.2.1 explains that Tideway needed to take reasonable steps to 
ensure its recommendation was suitable, which include obtaining the necessary information 
about Mr Ms knowledge and experience in the relevant investment field, his financial 
situation and his investment objectives.
Cobs 9.2.2R provides additional detail, and in reference to Mr Ms financial situation 
explains;
The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
This information is usually gathered through the completion of a fact find  which in this case 
Tideway sent to Mr M to complete independently and return. Having seen a copy of the fact 
find and the covering information Mr M returned with it, Tideway did broadly gather a lot of 
the information that I wouldve expected it to. But there wasnt a section to provide any 
significant detail around Mr Ms regular financial commitments. And I dont think Tideway did 
enough here to fully understand this.
Total outstanding balances were given by Mr M, as well as the length of time remaining in 
respect of some of the borrowing. And in the case of two of the unsecured loans, the interest 
rates were noted. But not all of this information was provided in respect of each of the debts 
noted. And there was no information noted at all about how much Mr M had to pay each 
month towards the outstanding debts or any other regular commitments Mr M was 
responsible for. And I cant see that there was any attempt to gather this information by 
Tideway.
In the circumstances I think this information was particularly important  given one of the key 
reasons for the recommendation was that Mr M had a need to clear debt using TFC. Without 
asking for this information, Tideway did not have a full picture of Mr Ms financial situation, 
making it difficult for it to ensure its recommendation was suitable.
I acknowledge that other comments provided by Mr M indicated his outgoings exceeded his 
income. Which Tideway has indicated it relied on. But there is no information to show how 
much that monthly deficit was  or whether this was due to other expenditure besides the 
debts. I think this was crucial information as without it, Tideway could not accurately 
establish how great a need this was or the viability of any alternative options for addressing 
this  such as perhaps scaling back other expenditure if possible. So, I dont think Tideway 
has done enough in terms of understanding Mr Ms specific circumstances and needs.
The advice process
In addition to these issues with the information gathered before the advice was provided, the 
advice itself was in my view incomplete  which I think impacts whether it was suitable.Tideway has said that its process was to give advice on the pension transfer first and then to 
provide advice relating to the investment of funds once the transfer has been completed. But 
I dont think the described process is in line with the requirements set by the regulator.
On 18 January 2013 the regulator at the time issued an alert about advising on pension 
transfers with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated products through a SIPP.
The alert included the explanation that;
The [FCAs] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a 
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating ()
I acknowledge this alert was in reference to investments in unregulated products and that 
there is no indication that Tideway intended to recommend unregulated investments to Mr M. 
But the underlying requirement  that when advising on pension transfers the advice must 
account for the overall investment strategy  is still applicable.
This was reiterated in a further alert issued by the FCA in April 2014 which said;
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
COBS 19.1 also contains specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from 
defined benefit schemes. COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or other 
pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits pension scheme;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to make 
an informed decision;
3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors that 
do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later than when the 
key features document is provided; and
4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and its 
advice.
And COBS 19.1.3G says the FCA considers the comparison should, amongst other things, 
be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of the 
assets in which the retail clients funds are investedBearing all of this in mind, without Tideway giving advice relating to the underlying 
investment as part of the consideration of whether transferring was appropriate for Mr M, I 
dont think I can reasonably say the process it followed was appropriate or in line with the 
regulators requirements.
Was the advice suitable?
Again, no assessment of an investment strategy took place. Without assessing and 
recommending an investment strategy, Tideway couldnt accurately determine if it was likely 
to meet Mr Ms investments needs or if he could bear the related risks. And without a 
specific strategy being outlined, with likely expected returns, there wasnt a detailed enough 
comparison for Mr M to make an informed decision.
The suitability report talks about how long Mr Ms pension funds would last, if he took 
equivalent benefits to his DB scheme, based on differing rates of return. And it provided 
information about some current rates of return for particular assets  albeit based on historic 
performance which arent an indicator of future performance. And Tideway indicated it felt it 
was not unrealistic to target returns of 4-5%. But I dont think this general commentary is 
enough. And again, without a strategy specifically being decided upon and recommended 
with a specific comparison to Mr Ms existing benefits provided, I dont think Tideway has 
done what was required of it. And I dont think Mr M could reasonably make an informed 
decision.
Tideway did include information about the critical yield  the rate of return, based on a 
number of assumptions set by the regulator, required on the pension funds if transferred to 
allow Mr M to purchase an annuity that would provide benefits equal to those he was entitled 
to under his DB scheme. Tideway says it calculated this to be 3.38% and did so based on 
more cautious assumptions  although a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report was not 
produced and it isnt clear if this figure was based on Mr M taking TFC or not. Our service 
published discount rates at the time of the advice. These are based on guidance set by the 
regulator to be used in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. And they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have 
been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor, so are a good comparator for if 
the critical yield was achievable. And the rate published by our service at the time was 4.2%.
But while the discount rate is slightly higher than the critical yield, it isnt clear if the critical 
yield quoted accounted for SIPPs fees, investment platform fees and ongoing advice fees. 
Which could mean in reality the critical yield was in fact higher than what was quoted. And 
once the likely fees were considered I think its unlikely Mr M would have improved on the 
benefits he was giving up. And again, because Tideway didnt recommend an investment 
strategy, including associated fees, Mr M couldnt make an informed decision, taking all of 
the relevant factors into account.
Im also conscious that the information about the critical yield was followed by a statement 
that Tideway considered the critical yield assessment largely irrelevant  which it has 
repeated in correspondence to our service. So, the critical yield, and whether it was 
achievable, does not appear to have formed part of the reasons for Tideways advice. And 
again, the critical yield being achieved was entirely dependent on the funds being invested 
appropriately. And there was no investment strategy recommended.
Overall, Im satisfied by not providing investment advice as part of the pension transfer 
advice, Tideways advice process was flawed which I think means the advice was 
unsuitable.
That notwithstanding though, I dont think the lack of investment advice is the only reason the overall advice given here wasnt appropriate.
Enhanced TFC and flexibility
It is accepted that Mr M had a number of outstanding unsecured debts at the time in addition 
to his mortgage. Mr M has said in the course of his complaint that he was up to date with his 
payments and was not being pursued by any of his creditors. But the information from the 
time does indicate that Mr M had some concerns about meeting his obligations - mentioning 
having discussed options with the CAB and that his outgoings exceeded his income at that 
point. Mr M has said he doesnt recall making these statements but from the evidence Ive 
seen Im satisfied they are part of the information he sent to Tideway before it provided 
advice. So, I think there was certainly a concern about his outstanding indebtedness at the 
time and a desire on his part to explore reducing this.
Due to the lack of information that was gathered in relation to the details of these regular 
outgoings, it isnt clear how significant of a need this was. Or whether there were other ways 
of making these payments affordable, that couldve been explored.
As a result, I have to decide what, on balance, I think the position was. Based on the 
information Ive seen, in particular the mention of having spoken to the CAB about potentially 
significant debt restructuring and the fact that Mr M still had a significant mortgage which 
wouldve hindered any restructuring; I think Mr M did have a need to reduce his 
indebtedness at the time  primarily his unsecured debts. And I dont think Mr M had any 
viable alternative to releasing money from his pension.
The fact find completed mentioned his wife having some savings from an inheritance. But 
these werent enough to clear Mr Ms indebtedness. And he noted that these were his wifes 
savings, not his. The fact find did also list a deferred pension lump sum from another 
scheme. But the amount listed again wouldnt have been sufficient to clear Mr Ms 
unsecured debt  which I think does appear to have been an important objective, given Mr M 
described it as imperative.
But that doesnt mean I think he necessarily needed enhanced tax-free cash or the flexibility 
that Tideway has suggested to achieve this objective.
Transferring allowed Mr M to access TFC of £69,788.30 on his 55th birthday, a couple of 
months after the advice was given. But I dont think he necessarily had a need to do this 
given that the debts listed stood at approximately £47,000. When Mr M turned 55 it appears 
he was entitled to take benefits under his existing DB scheme early, including TFC. Indeed, 
Tideway estimated in the suitability report Mr M could take approximately £50,600 as TFC 
under the DB scheme at that time  enough to clear the debts. And he would then have also 
received a guaranteed ongoing regular income  which Tideway estimated to be 
approximately £7,600 per year.
While Mr M talked about his intentions for the additional TFC, after clearing debts, that he 
couldve obtained by transferring  such as reducing his mortgage, potentially renovating or 
extending his property or helping his children onto the property ladder  I dont think he had 
a genuine need to obtain more TFC or that these potential uses were essential or time 
sensitive.
Tideway has said Mr M also wanted flexibility to take TFC but keep the rest of his pension 
invested and that he didnt want a regular income. But I havent seen anything to support 
that Mr M ruled out the option of taking benefits under his DB scheme at that point purely 
because he didnt want an income. And while Tideway has argued that Mr M seems to have 
been well researched at the point it gave advice and that he had a plan in mind, again, Tideways role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mr M thought he might want. As the 
professional adviser, it shouldve made him aware of the pros and cons with the various 
options, so he could make an informed decision  something which I dont think it did.
As Ive said, if Mr M had taken TFC under his DB scheme, and cleared his unsecured debts, 
hed have then begun to receive a regular income under the scheme (which Tideway 
believed to be £7,600 per year). This additional guaranteed income from the pension, on top 
of his salary, wouldve helped with other expenditure and couldve been used to make 
additional payments towards Mr Ms mortgage  something he suggested he was interested 
in  or achieve some of the other things hed discussed as uses for the TFC. Again, this 
guaranteed income wouldve been less than he wouldve received at the normal scheme 
retirement age. But if there were significant issues with disparity in income and expenditure  
which Tideway seems to have relied on there being when recommending the transfer  then 
this course of action mayve been more appropriate for Mr M.
And I understand, even after the crystallisation of the benefits under the DB scheme, Mr M 
couldve still continued to contribute to his other retirement provisions, with a similar level of 
tax relief, something he indicated he intended to do. Which would not have been the case if 
hed taken an income from the flexible drawdown arrangement Tideway recommended.
So, taking benefits under his existing scheme early  including a guaranteed, escalating 
income  to achieve the objective of repaying unsecured debt, while also providing additional 
income which could be contributed towards the other things Mr M talked about simply using 
TFC for, seems to have been a viable alternative. So, Im not sure he did have a need for the 
flexibility that Tideway has said. And I dont think Tideway did enough to discuss and explore 
these alternatives  as there is no reference to alternatives within the suitability report or why 
they were discounted.
Death benefits
Tideways suitability report said Mr M was attracted to transferring as hed be able to leave 
his pension fund, on death to beneficiaries of his choice. But that wasnt listed as an 
objective in the information Ive seen that Mr M provided to Tideway.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature. But whilst I appreciate death 
benefits are important to consumers, a pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr M 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr M pre-deceased her. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance  whereas the sum remaining on death in the SIPP 
was, and wouldve been further depleted through any income taken by Mr M.
I also note that Mr M said that both he and his wife had life assurance policies. And if Mr M 
felt this wasnt sufficient, and one of his objectives was genuinely to leave a legacy for his 
spouse and children which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension 
fund remained on his death, Tideway couldve explored amending this cover, and the sum 
assured.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to the SIPP justified 
the recommendation.Control and the stability of the DB scheme
From the information available it appears Mr M was not an experienced investor. And I 
cannot see that he had the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. 
Some of the summary information he provided to Tideway talked about investments. But the 
context was that he considered renovating his property and having additional disposable 
income as a potential investment. Not that he had knowledge or interest in investing his 
pension in a specific manner. And I think the fact that Mr Ms pension remained in cash 
following the transfer as he says he thought the SIPP manager was investing it shows that 
control over investments was unlikely to have been a genuine objective.
And although there has been passing comment to not being certain what would happen if 
the existing scheme became insolvent and potentially losing his money, Mr Ms own emails 
acknowledged that he thought this was unlikely. And Ive seen nothing to suggest the DB 
scheme was in trouble or that Mr M had reason to have concern about the security of his 
pension. Nor does it appear that Tideway did anything to allay these alleged fears or explain 
the cover he wouldve been provided by the Pension Protection Fund (PPF). So again, I 
dont think these points reasonably justify the recommendation made.
Summary
I think Mr M likely did have a need to clear his unsecured debts. And I acknowledge he 
seems to have contacted Tideway thinking that transferring his DB pension mayve been the 
best way to achieve this. But Tideway wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr M needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. It was incomplete and 
Tideway didnt meet its obligations in terms of making a recommendation as part of the 
pension transfer advice about the ongoing investment of the funds. But more than that, the 
course of action was not I think in Mr Ms best interests. It allowed him to release money to 
repay his unsecured debts. But it wasnt the only viable avenue for doing so. And the 
transfer involved him giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income.
I think appropriate advice, all things considered, wouldve been for Mr M to remain in the DB 
scheme but to take his retirement benefits early  at age 55.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against Tideway's 
advice, if it had advised him appropriately. But Im not persuaded he wouldve done.
The correspondence Mr M sent to Tideway prior to receiving advice, does suggest hed 
undertaken research and had a plan of action in mind. But I dont think this means Mr M 
wouldve ignored the recommendation of a professional adviser, whom he had sought out, if 
Tideway had advised him that his plan wasnt in his best interests and that there was a more 
appropriate alternative available. So, I dont think Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring, had 
he been correctly advised by Tideway.
In light of the above, Im currently minded to say that Tideway should compensate Mr M for 
the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.Tideway did not agree with my findings. It maintained that the advice it gave Mr M was 
appropriate and in his best interests given his position at the time. It said this was primarily 
because of there being a generous CETV offer, Mr M having an urgent need for capital at 
age 55, him being able to obtain a significantly higher TFC sum by transferring, benefits 
under the existing scheme being significantly reduced had he taken these early and a 
sensible plan being agreed at the time. In terms of the plan it mentioned it referred back to 
the suitability report and the section which talked about returns of 4-5% per annum being 
achievable with an actively selected bond portfolio.
It questioned some of the things Mr M had said when complaining. In particular it disputed 
Mr Ms explanation that he did not respond to contact about investing the money held within 
the SIPP Tideway had recommended, after the money had been transferred, as he was 
suspicious of the emails due to already believing the money to be invested. It said Mr M had 
received a significant number of emails from Tideway prior to this so it didnt believe he had 
grounds to think the emails were suspicious. It also thought Mr Ms statement that he 
believed the money to already be invested was untruthful  as he had asked about the 
possibility of this being held in cash prior to the transfer. Tideway also said the fact that 
Mr M had said he does not remember making certain written statements during the advice 
process called into question his testimony as the documents he referred to not remembering 
were provided to Tideway by him. And lastly it questioned what hed now said about not 
being in any payment difficulties with his existing debts at the time of the advice  as he had 
suggested when he approached Tideway hed already taken debt advice before the pension 
transfer was discussed, which Tideway didnt think Mr M wouldve done had he not been 
experiencing some difficulties.
Tideway also went on to say that some of the information Id relied on in my provisional 
findings was incorrect. Specifically, the benefits that wouldve been available to Mr M under 
the DB scheme at age 55. Id noted that the information available to me indicated that at age 
55 Mr M could take TFC of approximately £50,6000 and a reduced pension of £7,600 per 
annum. But even though these figures came from Tideway and were those it used in its 
suitability report where it recommended the transfer, it said that these were calculated 
wrongly.
It provided corrected calculations showing that Mr M could only have taken TFC of 
£40,287.61 and a reduced annual pension of £6,043.14 per year at age 55. So, it disagreed 
with my finding that recommending Mr M taking benefits early under his DB scheme was 
appropriate or a viable alternative. And it also said recommending Mr M take benefits early 
under the DB scheme wouldve committed him to an income below what he needed.
Finally, it disputed what Id said was a fair way to address matters. Tideway said that it felt a 
calculation of loss should be on the basis of how it wouldve recommended the SIPP be 
invested if Mr M had gotten back in touch after the transfer advice. It said it felt this was the 
reasonable comparison. It also said the reason for Mr Ms current position was that he had 
not acted in line with its advice and had withdrawn funds from the SIPP. So, Tideway didnt 
think it should have to compensate for this but if I disagreed, it said Mr M should be required 
to account for how the money was used. Lastly Tideway said that it didnt think a lump sum 
redress payment was fair and the only appropriate way of addressing this would be for an 
annuity to be acquired.
Mr M initially said he didnt have anything to add. But later reiterated that he was under no 
pressure to transfer his pension. He said hed never missed a payment and was not being 
chased for repayment of any of his outstanding debts and he provided a credit report, 
covering the period of advice and several years before, to show he was not in arrears. He 
said his wife held some savings at the time. And his mortgage was flexible, and he was in 
fact overpaying it, so if he had needed to free up money he couldve ceased overpayments and borrowed some money back. So, he felt he couldve used funds available under his 
mortgage and savings to meet any needs at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a clear disagreement between both parties around the circumstances at the time of 
the advice  particularly around whether Mr M needed to access his pension. And Id like to 
start by reiterating my role here. Our service is an impartial dispute resolution service and an 
informal alternative to a court of law. My role, where there is a disagreement or difference of 
opinion, is to decide, based on the information that is available, what I think on balance is 
more likely than not and then what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
Tideway has questioned the truthfulness of some of Mr Ms comments. I understand that 
Tideway does not necessarily agree with Mr M and has a different opinion. But, although it 
has explained why it thinks this, this doesnt lead me to agree with its suggestion that some 
of the comments Mr M has now made are deliberately misleading. 
That doesnt though mean I will necessarily agree with Mr Ms recollections. I need to have 
regard for the fact that what Mr M has told us represents what he recalls and how he feels 
about the transfer process now  some years removed from the events actually taking place. 
Memories can and do fade. And I considered this in my provisional decision when I found 
that, even though Mr M said he didnt recall some of the things hed said or written at the 
time of the advice, I was satisfied that these did represent his comments. And so, I felt Mr M 
did have a need to access his pension.
Ive thought again about everything the parties have said and provided when reaching this 
decision, in the same way  deciding on balance what I think is more likely than not and 
what I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr M has again said that he didnt have a need to access his pension at the time of the 
advice. And he has provided a credit file to support this, showing that he did not have any 
missed payments.
Ive reviewed the credit file, which does show a clear payment history for his credit 
agreements, including prior to the advice being given. So, I accept that Mr M does not 
appear to have been in any arrears. But not having missed payments before taking advice, 
doesnt mean that Mr M didnt have a need to address problems with repayments moving 
forward. 
Ive again reviewed the correspondence between the parties prior to the advice. As I 
explained in my provisional findings, Mr M sent Tideway emails explaining why he wanted to 
look at releasing money from his pension. 
In one of these he said using part of the pension was essential. The same document talked 
about having thought about extending his mortgage, but that this had been ruled out for 
several reasons. These included that it would mean he was paying more in his early 
retirement years and would prove costly, would restrict choices in the future, could create 
further debt problems and that the mortgage provider may not consider an extension. It is 
true that Mr M did mention that his wife had some savings. But he was very clear these 
belonged to his wife. He also said hed discussed his situation with the CAB but to Mr M it 
was inconceivable to enter into a debt management plan as it was morally wrong, and that it 
will affect my ability to re-mortgage.Mr M also completed a fact find document. Ive seen evidence that a blank template was 
emailed to Mr M and he completed and returned this independently. And in the fact find 
Mr M was clear that his outgoings exceeded his income at the time  but that this situation 
would be rectified if debt was cleared.
Mr M has said that he doesnt remember making a number of statements from the time of 
the advice. And has questioned if they were actually made by him. But Ive seen evidence 
that these documents were sent from his email address and authored by him. So, Im 
satisfied they do reflect what he told Tideway at the time.
While he might not have missed any payments prior to seeking advice from Tideway, I dont 
think there wouldve been a discussion with an organisation such as the CAB without there 
being a need to address a potential issue. And again, Mr M had been clear that his 
outgoings exceeded his income. Im also conscious that Mr M initiated contact with Tideway 
and said it was because colleagues had discussed releasing funds from his pension. 
Taking all of this into account, while I appreciate that Mr M feels strongly about this, Im 
satisfied on balance from the evidence available that he did have a need to address his 
outstanding debt at the time of the advice. And while Ive taken on board what he has now 
said about having potential other means to do this, the information from the time doesnt in 
my view support that these were viable options. So, I remain of the opinion that he did have 
a need to access his pension.
But I also remain of the opinion that the advice provided by Tideway was not in Mr Ms best 
interests. 
Firstly, I dont agree with what Tideway has said about a sensible plan for investment having 
been agreed at the time of the advice. General comments were made about the level of 
return that would be targeted. But the advice to transfer did not include a recommendation 
on how the funds would subsequently be invested in order to achieve that target. As there 
was no specific recommendation and no agreement to this, I dont agree that an appropriate 
plan was put in place. So, the advice in my view was incomplete. I dont think further advice 
being offered at a later date makes up for this. And, for all of the reasons I explained in my 
provisional findings, I still consider that the advice was unsuitable.
Tideway has said that Mr M could not have repaid his unsecured debt in full by taking 
benefits early under his DB scheme  as the figures it had previously calculated and Id 
relied upon in my provisional findings were incorrect. It also said taking benefits early under 
the DB scheme this wouldve committed Mr M to taking an income below what it says he had 
identified that he needed in retirement. So, it disagreed with my finding that this was a viable 
and appropriate recommendation. And as a result, still felt the recommendation to transfer 
was suitable.
As Ive explained, Im satisfied that Mr M had a need to address and reduce his unsecured 
debt. But as I said in my provisional findings, Ive seen nothing to suggest that an additional 
income being received from the DB scheme from age 55 wouldve been unwelcome  as it 
wouldve allowed Mr M to meet some additional objectives. I accept what Tideway has now 
said  that this wouldve started at around £6,043 per year, as opposed to £7,600. But I dont 
agree that this wouldve committed Mr M to a lower income than he needed in retirement. 
Mr M intended to continue working until age 67. So, wouldve continued to receive a salary 
to that point, plus the income from the DB scheme. He estimated that at age 67, he and 
Mrs M would need a combined income of around £19,000 after tax  and this was explained 
to Tideway in the emails he sent at the point of advice. But the state pension forecast he 
summarised to Tideway at the time indicated that he and Mrs Ms state pension alone wouldve met a large portion of this requirement (over £17,000). And the income from the DB 
scheme wouldve continued to escalate while in payment, between age 55 and 67. So that 
guaranteed income, on top of their state pension wouldve been enough to meet his and 
Mrs Ms income requirements in retirement  before even considering any other provisions. 
So, I dont agree with Tideway that this justified not recommending taking benefits early 
under the DB scheme.
I accept that by transferring Mr M was able to obtain a larger TFC sum. And I also 
acknowledge that it appears, taking benefits under the DB scheme early would only have 
provided a sum of just over £40,000, as opposed to the £50,600 I mentioned in my 
provisional findings. But having considered this again, I still dont think that Mr M needed the 
amount that was released by transferring. And I think recommending he take his DB scheme 
benefits wouldve allowed Mr M to address his needs and wouldve been in Mr Ms best 
interests.
As Ive said, Mr M said in the fact find, that his outgoings exceeded his income. So, he had a 
need to address this. And he confirmed that he had unsecured debt totalling £47,000  so 
repaying that was the most logical way to address his income deficit. Taking the TFC from 
the DB scheme wouldnt have cleared this in full and wouldve instead resulted in an 
outstanding balance remaining of just under £7,000. But, taking everything into account, I 
think that wouldve still been suitable in the circumstances.
The credit file Mr M has provided shows, not only that he wasnt in arrears, but details of 
some of the accounts he settled in 2016, with money released. It confirms he settled two 
loans and a credit card totalling in excess of £31,000 in full  while also apparently reducing 
other credit card debt but leaving the accounts open. The credit file also shows that the 
monthly payments to these three settled accounts alone totalled almost £800. So, by settling 
these three debts, Mr M already freed up a large amount of income. 
Using the TFC from the DB scheme wouldve allowed Mr M to settle the same balances. He 
wouldnt have been able to reduce his other unsecured debt entirely. But the income freed 
up by settling those three accounts and at least reducing the balances elsewhere would 
likely have been enough to address the income imbalance (as Mr M noted in the fact find 
reducing unsecured debt would do this). The additional income freed up couldve then been 
used to clear the remaining indebtedness over a period of less than a year - particularly 
when combined with the additional income Mr M wouldve been receiving in the form of the 
annual DB scheme pension. 
Taking DB scheme benefits early wouldve meant a slightly different approach than Mr M 
could take by transferring  clearing most of the unsecured debts and reducing the 
remainder over a period of months as opposed to fully clearing it immediately  because 
hed receive less TFC. But I think it would still have been appropriate as it wouldve likely 
addressed the significant issue  the income imbalance. And this wouldve resulted in Mr M 
receiving a guaranteed escalating income from that point forward, initially to supplement his 
salary and later his state pension and other retirement provisions, without risk. So, I remain 
of the opinion that this was a viable and appropriate solution in Mr Ms specific 
circumstances and that this option wouldve been in his best interests. And, had his been 
explored properly and fully and correctly explained to Mr M, on balance Im still of the opinion 
that this is what he wouldve agreed to.
With that in mind, as I consider the advice provided by Tideway was unsuitable and I think 
Mr M wouldve acted differently but for this advice, I remain of the opinion that Tideway 
should compensate Mr M.
Tideway has made some arguments regarding the proposed method for doing so.It has said that it doesnt think it is fair that it should be responsible for Mr M subsequently 
making withdrawals from the SIPP, as it wouldnt have advised him to do so. But my 
understanding is that the regulators redress methodology provides for withdrawals from the 
pension  as these are factored into the calculation and Tideway wouldnt be required to 
repay Mr M principle sums he has taken and had the use of. 
Tideway has also said that the redress calculation should be based on a comparison with 
how it intended to recommend that Mr M invest his SIPP  but for him not responding after 
the transfer had taken place. But I dont agree that this would be fair. As Ive explained there 
was no recommendation made regarding the investment. This shouldve formed part of the 
advice to transfer. And this is part of the reason that the advice was unsuitable. It would not 
be reasonable in my view to base redress for addressing the unsuitable advice on a 
hypothetical scenario that did not occur. And the redress should therefore be based on what 
did happen, because without the unsuitable advice, there wouldve been no transfer.
Tideway also argues that the redress should be provided in the form of an annuity as to do 
otherwise would not return Mr M to the position he would otherwise be in. It is evident that 
Mr M will benefit from flexibility by virtue of the position he is in now, but that has only arisen 
because of the unsuitable advice. And ultimately the regulator has set out what it deems to 
be appropriate redress to put right instances of unsuitable defined benefit pension transfer 
advice. And I see no reason to depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint.
So, while Ive considered Tideways arguments, I remain of the opinion that using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology is a fair way of addressing 
this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Tideways unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M 
would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given, but 
wouldve taken benefits under the scheme, including the maximum allowable TFC, at age 
55.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance / rules to be published.Mr M has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M. Tideway must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of my decision.
Tideway may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
I understand though that Mr Ms SIPP has been depleted and may well now be closed. So, if 
a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date Tideway receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Tideway to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Tideway to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I require Tideway Investment Partners LLP to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Tideway Investment Partners LLP to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Tideway 
Investment Partners LLP to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Tideway Investment Partners LLP pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts my final decision, the money award would become binding on Tideway 
Investment Partners LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my final 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman