DRN-3631126
The complaint
Mr H has complained about his car insurer Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) because it has accused him of fraud following claims being made on his policy, from 
him and another driver, after an alleged collision. LV has declined all liability for the incident.
What happened
Following the crash, and claims from both drivers, LV began investigating the incident. Mr H 
said he had collided with the other car when he had pulled out of a junction turning right, the 
other car had been proceeding, on the main road, across the junction. LV investigated the 
claims but ultimately denied liability for the incident. It told Mr H that it hadnt been able to 
validate it  it believed the claims had been fraudulently made.
Mr H complained to us. He said he had told LV that there had only been a minor dent 
caused to the other car. He said if the other driver was claiming for more damage, he knew 
nothing about that and it was unfair for LV to suggest they had been colluding. Mr H said 
LVs decline of the claim was in breach of his policy. 
Our investigator noted the expert evidence presented by LV. Also that the policy allowed it to 
decline fraudulent claims. He felt, given the available evidence, LV had acted fairly and 
reasonably. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H objected to the findings. He said that he had asked us to consider whether LVs 
allegations of collusion and fraud were reasonable. However, no evidence had been 
provided to show that he had given any misleading or incorrect information with the intent to 
defraud LV. His complaint was passed for an ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has asked us to investigate and consider his complaint. In short, that is what I have 
done. I have assessed the evidence provided by both parties to decide if LV has acted fairly 
and reasonably. Im satisfied, based on the available evidence, that it has.
I understand that Mr H thinks LV hasnt fully shared its concerns with him. However, I note 
that LVs investigator interviewed Mr H and discussed with him the evidence from its 
engineer who had assessed the vehicles involved in the reported incident. The investigator 
did not suggest the problem was only that the other car had more than a dent to the door. 
Rather that whilst Mr H had insisted both cars were moving at the point of the crash, the 
engineering evidence showed they must also have come together whilst the other car was 
stationary, which Mr H denied. 
Ive considered the engineers report. The author seems suitably qualified, he sets out 
reasoning, providing photographs and comparative evidence to support his findings. I find 
his report compelling. Ive not seen any other evidence to challenge it. I can understand why 
LV thinks the incident did not happen as reported.
LV is entitled to rely on the evidence of its experts. And the policy allows LV to decline 
fraudulent claims. This service always expects an insurer to apply such a term fairly and 
reasonably. And an allegation of fraud has significant consequences for the accused. So this 
service expects an insurer to support such allegations with strong evidence. Im satisfied 
here that LV has acted fairly and reasonably in applying the fraud clause to decline the 
claims made following the reported incident in question. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman