DRN-3589360
Complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed his current account and didnt 
fully explain why.
Background
In November 2021, Mr K opened an account with Santander. However, Santander 
subsequently reviewed further information pertaining to its final checks and as a result of this 
it notified Mr K that it was no longer prepared to offer him an account. Mr K was unhappy 
with this and complained. Santander didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. As Mr K remained 
dissatisfied, Mr K referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns. He didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr K unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr K disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Santander acted unfairly towards 
Mr K and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr K, a bank is under no obligation to offer an account to a 
consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And, after completing its final checks, Santander 
decided it didnt wish to have Mr K as a customer. Mr K is unhappy that Santander hasnt 
disclosed the exact reason for closing his account. However, closing a customers account is 
a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. And it has no obligation to share its 
reasons for that decision.
Nonetheless, its clear to see that Mr K has been told who he can contact for further details 
on the information Santander is likely to have seen when carrying out its final checks. So Im 
satisfied that Santander has taken reasonable steps for Mr K to understand why it wasnt 
prepared to offer him an account. I understand that Mr K has had difficulty obtaining 
information from the party hes been directed to. But this isnt Santanders responsibility. 
Santander is only responsible for information it holds and it cant compel the party Mr K has 
been referred to release any information  even though Mr K says he isnt an adult.  
I realise that Santanders decision will have been very disappointing to Mr K and I can 
appreciate why the closure of his account will have caused him inconvenience. I also 
suspect that theres an element of disappointment that hes unable to have an account. But 
despite all of this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell Santander it has to offer Mr K 
an account in circumstances where it has legitimately decided it doesnt wish to do so, or 
compel it to provide information another part is responsible for. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Santander acted unfairly 
towards Mr K and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr K. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
appreciate why I think Santander hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman