DRN-1818227
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Services Limited (BG) failed to carry out annual boiler 
services in time and didnt look into his complaint about it properly.
What happened
Mr S had a service and emergency breakdown package for his central heating boiler. The 
policy renewed on 21 September and provided for a service of the boiler in each policy year. 
He says he didnt receive reminders in 2019 before he booked a service using BGs online 
system on 19 October 2019 for 21 January 2020. The service should have been carried out 
sometime before 21 September 2020 to be in the policy year. 
Mr S made a complaint a few days later by email saying BG hadnt sent a reminder about a 
service and it was now late three years in a row. He received an automated 
acknowledgment. On 29 November 2019 Mr S called BG, it said the complaint hadnt been 
allocated. He called again on 30 December 2019. BG reassured Mr S about safety aspects. 
It said it could bring the service forward and book another service in 2020 to balance the 
servicing out to around May/June from 2021. It apologised for the delay in looking at his 
complaint and said it would be allocate this as soon as possible.
BG then postponed the service booked for January 2020 until March 2020. Mr S called BG 
on 20 January 2020 and the service was rearranged for 3 February 2020. BG considered the 
complaint and apologised for the delays. It offered to book a further service later in the year 
and to pay £30 compensation for the inconvenience of the rescheduled appointment. Mr S 
wasnt satisfied by this. BG offered a further £65 compensation for the late service, saying 
this was what it charged for a boiler service. 
Mr S rejected this. He said BG hadnt learnt anything from his previous complaint and he felt 
let down by repeated service failings and on safety grounds. Mr S also felt the lack of 
servicing may impact the resale value of his property. Mr S says he got no initial response to 
his complaint and had to chase BG up about it on several occasions.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it, saying BGs offer 
of £95 was fair. He said BG had serviced the boiler in line with the policy terms even though 
some were more than twelve months apart, except for 2018/19 which was both late and 
outside the policy year. He said BGs records showed it had sent letters in July and August 
2019 asking Mr S to book an appointment. Another letter was sent on 23 September 2019 
saying it wouldnt contact him until his next service was due but that he could book an 
appointment in the meantime. Our investigator said sending these reminders met BGs 
obligations under the policy and it hadnt needed to offer the £65 for the late service, so it 
had acted reasonably. 
Our investigator said he didnt think the delay in BG dealing with the complaint had impacted 
Mr S in terms of meriting compensation.Mr S said he hadnt had any reminders and asked why BG hadnt mentioned sending them 
earlier. He said BG had paid the same compensation when he had complained about the 
same issues previously so it wasnt learning anything. He wasnt happy at the time it took BG 
to look into his complaint and further delays thereafter.
As Mr S doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
 have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so I do not uphold the 
complaint.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr S but I need to consider whether BG has acted fairly 
and reasonably in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, the law and industry good 
practice in its dealings with Mr S and I think it has. 
The contract between Mr S and BG is set out in the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the 
policy and policy schedule. The policy provides for an annual service within the policy year. I 
understand Mr Ss frustration and concern that actual services were further apart than 
annually. But only one service wasnt provided within a policy year and BG has offered 
compensation for that. I think that some of Mr S frustration is due to the delay in being able 
to book convenient appointments, but there will always be issues fitting around each partys 
availability. 
BGs records do show it issued reminders to book a service. Doing so meets the 
requirements set out in the T&Cs. Mr S says he didnt receive these and he refers to this in 
his email to BG, so I dont doubt what he says. But they appear to be correctly addressed 
and as most post is successfully delivered I dont think BG has acted unreasonably in using 
this method here. 
Mr S says BG hasnt learned from his previous complaint. As a business BG can chose the 
processes and procedures it puts in place and I think it did acted in accordance with them 
here. What Im considering here is whether or not following these processes led to a fair 
outcome for Mr S in the individual circumstances of this complaint and I think it has.
In offering to refund the £65 service fee cost BG has done more than it needed to under the 
T&Cs and offered a further £30 for the cancelled appointment. I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr S isnt happy with BGs service but it did act within the T&Cs of the agreement except for 
the late service for the 2018/19 policy year. It has offered compensation that isnt required 
under the T&Cs and further compensation for the cancelled appointment to give £95 in total. 
I understand this offer is still available to Mr S. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and wont be asking it to do more than this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27July 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman