DRN-3576404
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund her the money she paid to book a 
hotel room she later cancelled.
Mrs I is represented in this complaint by her husband but, for ease, Ill refer to Mrs I 
throughout.
What happened
Mrs I used her Barclays debit card to pay for one night in a hotel. She paid for an extra bed 
for her daughter and said the hotel misinformed her about whether that bed was in a 
separate room. When she found out it was in the same room, she decided to cancel her 
booking. The hotel said the payment shed made was non-refundable as per the terms and 
conditions of the booking. 
Mrs I then asked Barclays for a refund under the chargeback rules. It made a chargeback 
claim but it was defended by the hotel. The hotel said Mrs I knew the layout of the room from 
photographs made available online. They said Mrs I had phoned them before she booked to 
ask if there was a separate sleeping area for the extra bed. And they had told her it was 
open plan and there was no partition. 
Barclays said the evidence from the hotel was strong and it couldnt take the matter any 
further. Mrs I wasnt happy and so brought her complaint to this service. She said the hotel 
had never mentioned the room was open plan and instead had said the living area was 
separate, not in the bedroom.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. She didnt think there was 
enough evidence to support a claim that the service provided wasnt as described. She also 
noted that the hotels terms and conditions said the cost of the first nights accommodation 
was non-refundable. So, she thought Barclays had acted in line with the chargeback scheme 
rules.
Mrs I doesnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Let me explain 
why. 
Chargeback is a process provided by the relevant card scheme  in this case Visa. It allows 
customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if theres a problem with the goods or 
services theyve paid for. Theres no automatic right to a chargeback. Nor is chargeback a 
guaranteed method of getting a refund. If the bank feels as though the claim wont be 
successful, they dont have to raise a chargeback. 
Barclays made a chargeback claim to the hotel but they defended the claim for the reasons 
set out above. Barclays could have pursued the matter further but Id only expect it to do so 
if it felt there was a reasonable prospect of success. 
The Visa chargeback rules say a bank can make a chargeback claim if, for example, the 
goods or services are not as described. So, to be successful, a customer must show that the 
goods or services they received didnt match what was described on the transaction receipt 
or other record presented at the time of purchase.
Mrs I says that when she phoned the hotel before she booked the room, they told her the 
living area was separate and not in the bedroom. That contradicts the hotels version of that 
conversation as they say they told Mrs I the room was open plan. I havent been able to 
listen to the call myself and so I have to base my decision on the evidence I have seen. And 
that includes the online photographs of the room, which dont show that theres a separately 
partitioned living area. And the room description, which makes no mention of the living area 
being separate from the main bedroom. 
The receipt for the room shows Mrs I paid for a Suite + extra bed. Mrs I suggested that a 
hotel suite would usually mean it would have two rooms - a bedroom plus an extra living 
room. But I dont think thats definitive and the key thing here is how the hotel described the 
room and how they presented it in the photographs. In light of what Ive said above, I dont 
think theres enough evidence to say the room wasnt as the hotel had described. 
The hotels terms and conditions say that the cost of the first night of any stay is 
non-refundable. It also says it would refund that amount if the hotel is able to re-let the room. 
But the hotel said it wasnt able to re-let the room for the night Mrs I had booked. So, I think it 
was fair for Barclays to say the hotel had acted in accordance with its terms and conditions 
when it refused to refund the cost of the room.
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mrs I experienced but I think Barclays acted fairly in 
deciding not to pursue matters further with the card scheme as there wasnt a reasonable 
prospect of success. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Barclays to refund 
any of the money she paid to the hotel. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Is complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman