DRN-2864634
The complaint
Mr V complains about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE handled a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Great Lakes Insurance SE this includes its agents and claims handlers 
acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr V claimed on his policy for cover to pursue personal injury claims arising out of accidents 
he suffered at the same premises on two different occasions.
Great Lakes accepted the claims in early 2019 and referred them to one of its panel firms of 
solicitors to assess. The solicitors corresponded with Mr V over the following months and 
gathered evidence relating to the claims.
In August 2019 Mr V complained about the way the solicitors were dealing with the matter. 
Around the same time, Great Lakes withdrew cover, saying the solicitors had advised that 
his claims didnt have reasonable prospects of success, which is required under the policy 
terms for cover to be provided. In reply to the complaint, Great Lakes acknowledged that 
Mr V had spent time obtaining evidence to support his claim but said despite this, the 
solicitors opinion was that the additional evidence he had mentioned wouldnt alter the 
prospects assessment. 
Mr V wasnt happy with this decision or with Great Lakes response to his complaint and 
brought his complaint to this service. Hes raised concerns about a number of issues; in 
particular he says:
his complaint about the solicitors concerned their poor service, professional 
negligence, dishonesty and misconduct but Great Lakes turned a blind eye to these 
concerns and supported the solicitors poor service;
Great Lakes said it had only asked the solicitors to assess the prospects of his case 
but they pursued his claims for seven months on grounds that were inappropriate;
the solicitors then suddenly decided to drop the claims without good reason and 
Great Lakes allowed this  despite him providing an opinion from a barrister that his 
claims did have good prospects. 
When our investigator considered the complaint her initial view was that it shouldnt be 
upheld. She said the solicitors had set out their view on the prospects of success and it was 
reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the legal advice provided.
After Mr V challenged this, the investigator obtained further information. Having reviewed 
this, she still thought the decision to withdraw cover was reasonable. But she said Great 
Lakes hadnt explained to Mr V what steps the solicitors had been asked to take, reviewed 
the progress of the matter, or kept him informed. She asked Great Lakes to pay 
compensation of £200 to Mr V for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by the poor 
service hed received.
Great Lakes didnt accept this recommendation. It said while there may have been some 
poor service, the crux of the matter was that Mr V disagreed with the legal advice and the 
decision to withdraw cover and he would have been unhappy about that however things had 
been managed. It felt the compensation was a penalty rather than an accurate reflection of 
the distress caused to Mr V, and considered a payment of £100 would be fair.
As there was no agreement, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly; 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy provides cover for personal injury claims. But the policy terms say a claim must 
have prospects of success, which means it must be more likely than not that the policyholder 
will win their case. This is common in legal expenses policies and means insurers dont have 
to meet costs for claims that are unlikely to be successful.
. 
I would expect an insurer to get legal advice before deciding whether a claim has reasonable 
prospects, and an insurer is entitled to rely on a reasoned legal opinion from a suitably 
qualified lawyer unless it's obviously wrong.
Great Lakes referred the claims to solicitors to assess. Thats in line with normal practice 
and what Id expect to happen. But this happened in January 2019 and by August 2019 they 
were still dealing with the matter. Mr V was unhappy with the steps they had taken to pursue 
the claims and complained about this. It was during this complaints process that the 
solicitors set out their views on the prospects of success. Having reviewed that 
correspondence, Great Lakes said the claims would not be covered. 
I think the decision itself was fair and in line with the policy terms. Mr V was only entitled to 
cover provided the claims were likely to succeed. Once Great Lakes had seen the legal 
advice it was entitled to rely on that advice and decide that the claims shouldnt be covered. 
Mr V disputed the decision and hes referred to a legal opinion he obtained from a barrister 
which he says should have led to cover being provided. I appreciate that advice was 
supportive. But Great Lakes has explained that this was from a retired barrister who was no 
longer practising. The advice itself is fairly brief and doesnt review all the evidence that the 
solicitors had considered. Taking these circumstances into account, in my judgment it was 
reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the advice from the solicitors.
However, although the decision itself was reasonable I agree that the way the claims were 
handled could have been better. It wasnt made clear to Mr V the basis on which the 
solicitors were instructed. Their correspondence with him indicated they were pursuing the 
claims and gathering evidence. So I can see why he would have been surprised to then be 
told cover wouldnt be provided.
Its not for me to comment on how the solicitors dealt with the legal issues  I can only look 
at how Great Lakes dealt with the insurance claim. It should have ensured the claim was 
dealt with promptly, and provided guidance to help Mr V with his claim and appropriate 
information on its progress. That didnt happen. Great Lakes has accepted that there were some issues with reporting from the solicitors. By August 2019, when Mr V complained, the 
case had been with the solicitors for around seven months. I dont think it was reasonable for 
there to be this length time where Great Lakes doesnt appear to have chased or asked for 
an update. If Great Lakes had explained more clearly to Mr V what the solicitors were doing, 
and kept in touch with progress, he would have had a better understanding of what was 
happening with his claim. His expectations could have been managed and it would not have 
been such a shock to find that his claims wouldnt be covered. I agree these failings caused 
some confusion to Mr V about what was happening and he was caused distress that could 
have been avoided.
Having considered Mr Vs circumstances, the amount of time that passed and the 
importance to him of his claim, a payment of £200 would in my judgment be a fair reflection 
of the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to 
pay compensation of £200 to Mr V in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman