DRN-3063437
The complaint
Mr J complains about the valuation esure Insurance Limited (esure) placed on his car after a 
claim that was made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J complains about how esure have valued his car. While he accepts that esure has used 
motor valuation guides to do this, he doesnt feel that the valuation the guides have come to 
is a realistic valuation for his car. He says that he wouldnt be able to purchase the same car 
in the current market for what esure has offered him to settle the claim.
Mr J says that there is a big discrepancy between book values and real values. And because 
esure has gone with the book value, it doesnt reflect the actual market value and so he has 
lost out around £3,000.
Mr J says that when he disputed things with esure, the engineer just looked at how the 
previous engineer had had come to the valuation and hadnt reviewed the car itself, or how 
much it would cost to replace his car on a like for like basis given the current market.
Mr J says his car was quite niche  given the model and the trim, and he didnt think esure 
had taken this into account. Mr J has provided this service with advertisements of cars that 
are similar to his. And ones he says have a lesser specification to his  which have been 
advertised at a higher price to the valuation esure provided him with. Based on the 
advertisements hes seen, Mr J believes that a fair valuation for his car would be around 
£9,500.
esure responded to Mr Js complaint and confirmed how it had valued his car. It confirmed 
that it had used four of the motor valuation guides to do this  but excluded one of the 
valuations from one of the guides because it was significantly lower than the others. It then 
took an average of the three other guides to provide Mr J with a valuation. It said that the 
valuations were taken from the time of loss. And it said its final settlement on the matter 
would be the average of the three motor valuation guides which was £6,558.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr J, but he didnt uphold his complaint. He thought 
that esure had fairly valued Mr Js car  and explained that the extras he had with his car 
didnt increase the market value at the time of loss.
Mr J didnt agree and made the below main points:
The valuation guides take into account auction prices which are significantly lower 
than retail prices. 
esure hasnt offered him the fair retail price for his car.
The value of second-hand cars has significantly spiked in the current market.
Because Mr J didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Its probably worth starting off by saying that it isnt my role to value Mr Js car. What I need 
to do is consider whether esure offered to settle the claim in a fair and reasonable way, and 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Its generally accepted that, unless otherwise stated in the policy documents, that an insurer 
will pay the pre-accident market value of a car where the car is deemed a total loss. I dont 
find this to be unfair or unreasonable.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions that applied to Mr Js policy at the time. The 
document defines market value as  the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell 
your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment 
of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition 
and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor 
trade guides... This may not be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
The policy terms and conditions also say that We wont pay more than the market value of 
your car at the time of loss, less the total excess payable.
I know Mr J is already aware of the approach esure has taken in valuing his car, and that this 
service would normally deem the approach that its taken to be fair. The motor guides both 
esure and this service has checked are used for valuing second hand vehicles. Generally, 
we find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research of likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations as well as the cars make, model and other specifications. So, we 
generally find them to be more reliable than other resources such as adverts. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports. 
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Mr Js car at the time of the incident and 
they produced the following valuations: £6,425 (guide one), £6,820 (guide two) and £6,430 
(guide three) and £5,630 (guide four). I have also checked that esure input the correct 
information into the guides to ensure it produced an accurate valuation for that particular 
guide. Im satisfied that the reported valuations for each guide are correct for the same make 
and model as Mr Js car.
Often where one guide is significantly out of line with (or different to) the others the accepted 
practice is to disregard it. I can see esure has already discounted guide four as it is out of 
line with the others  and this is what I would have expected it to do. 
Looking at the three guide prices together would be our normal approach, and one that we 
normally think is fair to all parties. The criteria that drive the price are so varied, and some 
very specific criteria such as age, mileage, or additional extras play a big part in determining 
the price. Because of this it makes sense to rely on the guides and use the data provided 
within them to get to a fair valuation. The average of the three guides is £6,558. So, Im 
satisfied that esure has fairly valued Mr Js car.
I understand that Mr J doesnt feel that the valuations in the guides have provided a fair 
valuation for his car. He says that the valuation guides include cars that are sold at auction, 
which generally have a lower price to those sold by dealerships, and so the valuations arent reflective of the current retail market. But the guides also take into account advertised prices 
from dealerships and other places too  where the actual sale price is likely to be less to give 
customers to room to negotiate. And essentially, this is how a fair market price is reached in 
the guides. And where three separate guides are all giving a similar value, as is the case 
here, I think this is likely to be a fair reflection of the market value.
I fully understand Mr Js frustration with the situation hes in as hes found several examples 
of cars which he says are a lower specification than his, that are advertised for sale at a 
higher price. But these prices are an offer to sell. The offers reflect that a consumer might be 
prepared to negotiate the price at the time of purchase. This is not necessarily the price that 
will be obtained. So, these advertised sale prices can often be misleading when assessing 
the market value of a car.
Ive noted Mr Js comments in that his car was a higher specification and had additional 
features, which he says add value to the car. When the investigator checked the guides, I 
can see that they included these features as part of the valuation, and it didnt increase the 
value. At new, added extras can be expensive but the amount paid doesnt necessarily 
mean a comparable increase in the market value. And while some optional extras may 
improve the sale price of a car, Im aware that many don't. And even where they do, I 
understand that the increase in value for the car is only likely to be a small fraction of the 
initial cost of those extras when ordering the car as new from the dealer. 
Ive also thought about Mr Js comments  in that the value of second-hand cars has 
increased. But the valuation guides are specifically for second hand cars, so it would have 
taken into account the value of Mr Js second-hand car at the time of loss. Based on what 
Ive seen, and having done my own research, I dont find it was unfair or unreasonable of 
esure to rely on these guides when valuing Mr Js car. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman