DRN-3166157
The complaint
Miss T complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited unfairly registered two defaults 
on her credit file.
What happened
Miss T says she held two Shop Direct accounts. She says in 2018 she was unable to work 
due to ill health and contacted Shop Direct in 2020 about her situation. Miss T says made a 
proposal to repay her debt at £25 a month and then became unwell again. She says she 
assumed Shop Direct had accepted her offer but found out in July 2020 her accounts had 
been defaulted. Miss T says that is unfair and says she wasnt told that was a possibility or 
that her payment offer had been rejected. She would like the defaults removed from her 
credit file.
Shop Direct says it sent Miss T an e-mail on 16 January 2020 following a previous request 
for income and expenditure information. It says Miss T didnt respond and missed required 
payments. Shop Direct says in those circumstances it correctly sent Miss T a Notice of 
Default in July 2020 and the following month registered the defaults on the two accounts. It 
also says a payment plan wasnt agreed but says it will not pursue the debt.
Miss T brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
didnt think Miss T had replied to Shop Direct request for further information and didnt think 
there was a plan in place. The investigator thought Miss T didnt make required payments 
and that Shop Direct sent default notices and was entitled to register the default.
Miss T questions why Shop Direct waited six months and didnt make contact with her. She 
questions if the default notices were sent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss T will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. I appreciate that Miss T was unwell and also in financial difficulties. I have 
looked at Shop Direct records and Im satisfied that it tried to help Miss T by asking for her 
income and expenditure and that it e-mailed Miss T for further information on 16 January 
2020. I dont think Miss T replied to that e-mail and so I dont think in those circumstances 
Shop Direct could have agreed a repayment plan. I also think it clear that Shop Direct had 
concerns that Miss T couldnt afford a plan based on the figures she had provided.
I appreciate Miss T thought a plan had been agreed. But I dont think it reasonable for Miss T 
to have assumed that as I have made clear that I think Shop Direct told her that it required 
further information which she ought to have known she didnt provide. In any event I dont 
think Miss T kept to that payment that she thought was agreed.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) suggests a default should be registered 
between three and six months or arrears or missed payments. Im satisfied that by July 2020 
Miss Ts account was six months in arrears. I also think having looked at Shop Direct 
records that a Notice of Default was sent to Miss T in early July 2020 and that the defaults 
were registered in August 2020. So, I dont think Shop Direct made a mistake or acted 
unfairly by registering the defaults and that it gave Miss T appropriate notice. Im also 
satisfied that by July 2020 the relationship between Miss T and Shop Direct had broken 
down and that Miss T hadnt made contact with it or maintained the required payments.
Overall, I find Shop Direct acted fairly and didnt make a mistake by registering the defaults 
in these circumstances. It follows that I cant fairly order Shop Direct remove them and cant 
see how they could have been avoided here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman