DRN-4042985
The complaint
Mr B complains, with the help of a representative, that James Hay Administration Company 
Ltd (James Hay) failed to act with due care and diligence when accepting his Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) application, the underlying investment and his ongoing 
contributions. 
What happened
Mr B transferred his pension to a SIPP and invested in Raithwaite (an unconnected third-
party loan for £112,000) on the advice of his then financial adviser. Later, also on the advice 
of his then financial adviser, Mr B established a SIPP with James Hay and transferred the 
Raithwaite investment to it in-specie along with a cash balance. 
Mr B has told us that he made additional contributions of around £50,000 into his SIPP 
between February 2012 and March 2016. James Hay has told us that Mr Bs employer made 
contributions totalling just over £30,000 into his SIPP between 2015 and 2016. 
James Hay has told us that the investment hasnt been repaid and the loan is currently in 
default, there are ongoing discussions about a potential restructuring of which Mr B has 
been made aware. James Hay has been valuing the investment at nil under the 
circumstances and it says that Mr B was notified of this in writing on 15 June 2020. 
The Raithwaite investment went into administration. Since then, Mr B has transferred the 
liquid balance of around £94,000 out of his SIPP to a pension held with a different provider, 
whilst retaining a small cash balance with James Hay. 
Mr B made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about the 
advice he received. He received £85,000 in compensation. The FSCS did calculate Mr Bs 
loss position to be in excess of its award limits, so he hasnt been fully compensated for the 
losses he suffered as a result of the advice he received. 
After this, James Hay wrote to Mr B explaining that: 
We have been informed by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), 
that compensation has been paid to you in respect of the advice you received in 
relation to these loans. 
On payment of compensation, customers assigned the beneficial right to the 
underlying investment to the FSCS including the rights to any returns in respect of 
the investments. Title to the investments will continue to be held by the SIPP Trustee 
in a segregated and ringfenced account. 
In the event that any monies are recovered from the investments, the FSCS is under 
a statutory obligation to calculate whether these sums are due to the claimant (for 
example, where the claimant still has uncompensated losses), or whether they are 
due to FSCS (for example, where the claimant has been fully compensated by 
FSCS). 
We have therefore removed these assets as active holdings within your plan, and 
these will no longer be included in future illustrations or reviews.
Background to the complaint
Mr B complained to James Hay, it did not uphold his complaint. Unhappy with its response, 
he referred his complaint to this service. 
James Hay objected to us progressing Mr Bs complaint, amongst other things, it said that 
the investment was ongoing, and it wouldnt be possible to quantify any loss. And, that the 
complaint should be directed toward the original SIPP provider. James Hay doesnt accept 
that its responsible for the position Mr B is in. It doesnt accept that this situation has come 
about as a result of a lack of care or due diligence on its part. It also didnt think this 
complaint was one we could consider. 
We received a copy of the reassignment of rights form from Mr B on 22 November 2022. 
The form confirmed that the FSCS agreed to reassign his legal rights to pursue James Hay 
to him. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that it was one we could 
consider but that it shouldnt be upheld. He also highlighted that James Hay hadnt provided 
us with the information we requested or its business file. In summary, he said that: 
Mr B was an eligible complainant as he had obtained reassignment of rights from the 
FSCS. 
He thought the complaint had been raised in time based on the available information 
but invited James Hay to let him know if it didnt agree and explain why it thought the 
complaint had been made too late, if applicable. 
He didnt think James Hay erred in accepting the in-specie transfer of the Raithwaite 
investment  and, in any case, didnt think Mr Bs position would be materially 
different if James Hay had refused to accept the investment. 
James Hay didnt respond to the investigators view. Mr B disagreed with the outcome 
reached, he said that his losses were significantly in excess of the compensation he could 
receive from the FSCS, if the original SIPP provider were to go into administration. He 
maintained that James Hay shouldnt have accepted the Raithwaite investment, or the 
additional contributions he made.
The investigator explained that Mr Bs submissions didnt change his view of the complaint. 
He didnt think the limits applicable to a potential FSCS claim were relevant to assessing 
whether or not James Hay acted fairly and reasonably under the circumstances. 
As part of our investigation, we asked James Hay for some details about the current position 
of the SIPP, the applicable fees and if the SIPP could be closed and it confirmed that: 
There is a current cash balance of around £1,800;
If the SIPP remains open, fees will continue to apply. Those fees are made up of an 
annual administration charge (most recently £208) and a monthly percentage fee on 
the uninvested cash balance (sum total of which charged over the last 12 months 
was £4.82).
If Mr B transfers the remaining cash balance held in the SIPP to another pension 
arrangement, then the SIPP can be closed; but It would need to be kept up to date with any changes to Mr Bs contact details, as the 
FSCS may require him to act or vote (in relation to the investment) in the future and 
would contact James Hay in relation to this. 
Mr B is under age 55, so he cant withdraw the cash balance from his SIPP. 
 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, this case was passed to me for review. I sent my 
provisional decision to Mr B and James Hay, explaining that I thought this was a complaint 
we could consider and why I didnt think this complaint should be upheld. I said that I would 
consider any further submissions either party wanted to make. Mr B didnt respond to my 
provisional decision and James Hay confirmed that it didnt have anything to add. My 
findings remain as set out in my provisional decision, Ive reiterated these below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Jurisdiction
 James Hay initially objected to our service considering Mr Bs complaint. Our investigator 
concluded that the complaint was one that we can consider. He concluded that Mr B is an 
eligible complainant and that the complaint has been brought in time. James Hay didnt 
object to the investigators findings but, for the avoidance of doubt, I think this is a complaint 
that we can consider for the same reasons as those set out by the investigator. 
Merits 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in 
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the 
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress 
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this. 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable in this complaint I consider the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Principles for Business to be of particular relevance.
The Principles for Businesses (PRIN) which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system 
(PRIN 1.1.2G  at the relevant date). 
In addition, in British Bankers Association, R (on the application of) v The Financial Services 
Authority & Anon (2011) EWHC 999 (20 April 2011) Ousely J said: 
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules (para 
77). 
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirements they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules 
(para 162).
I consider Principle 6 to be of particular relevance: 
Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly 
In September 2009 the FSA published a thematic review report on SIPPs which stated: 
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are 
obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes clients 
The context that these comments were made in was in relation to the quality of the business 
that a SIPP operator accepts. Ive carefully considered James Hays obligation to treat its 
customers (and specifically Mr B) fairly when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B invested in the Raithwaite investment via a previous SIPP held with a different SIPP 
operator prior to the James Hay SIPP being set up. A few years after the investment was 
made, Mr B established the James Hay SIPP and transferred the Raithwaite investment into 
it in-specie. So, I dont think James Hay was responsible for Mr Bs investment in the 
Raithwaite investment. And, even if I were to agree (which I dont), that James Hay shouldnt 
have accepted the in-specie transfer of the investment, I dont think that Mr B would be in a 
materially different position. 
Large monthly contributions were being made into Mr Bs James Hay SIPP, Im not 
persuaded that James Hay had any reason not to accept these. The vast majority of the 
liquid holdings and cash balance  which appears to have accrued from the monthly 
contributions  in Mr Bs SIPP (around £94,000) has since been transferred away to another 
pension scheme. Mr Bs SIPP now only holds a relatively small cash balance, which James 
Hay has confirmed can be transferred to another pension scheme. If the cash balance is 
transferred out, the SIPP can be closed, and Mr B wont incur any further charges. I think 
that this is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, and I sympathise with his 
position. I hope he understands that, whilst I make no award, this is not because I 
underestimate the seriousness of the situation  in respect of whats happened with his 
pension. Rather, its because Im not persuaded that James Hay is responsible for what has 
gone wrong under the circumstances.  My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman