DRN-3703512
The complaint
Ms H (through a representative) complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans 
which she struggled to repay. 
Ms H also says loans were offered when her previous loans hadnt yet been fully repaid 
which meant she had at least two loans running at the same time.
What happened
Ms H was advanced eight home collected loans (in two lending chains) between July 2013
and February 2021. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans
in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)monthly 
repayment
1 £300.00 04/07/2013 25/04/2014 32 £15.00
2 £400.00 12/11/2013 10/06/2016 32 £20.00
gap in lending
3 £300.00 23/11/2017 20/09/2018 33 £15.00
4 £100.00 20/09/2018 18/04/2019 33 £5.00
5 £300.00 13/12/2018 23/08/2019 33 £15.00
6 £240.00 03/09/2019 02/06/2020 33 £12.00
7 £300.00 02/06/2020 09/02/2021 34 £15.00
8 £300.00 09/02/2021 10/09/2021 34 £15.00
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. So, where
loans overlapped Ms Hs weekly commitment was more. For example, when loans 4 and 5
were granted her weekly commitment to Morses was £20 per week.
Following Ms Hs complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt going
to uphold her complaint because it had carried out proportionate checks before these loans
were advanced.
Ms Hs representative didnt accept the outcome and instead referred the complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator and it was partly upheld. She thought it was
fair for Morses to have granted loans 1  5. However, she concluded loans 6 - 8 shouldnt
have been advanced because it was clear that the lending was now harmful to Ms H given
her indebtedness wasnt consistently reducing and shed shown signs of having repayment
problems.
Ms Hs representative said it agreed with the adjudicators assessment.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators decision to uphold loans 6 - 8. In summary it said:
Ms H had eight loans over two periods of lending.
There is a small break between loans five and six.
For loan six, Ms H borrowing decreased and while the lending went back
up to £300 Morses doesnt consider this to be unreasonable given the small weekly
commitment.
Morses completed relevant checks including verifying her income with the credit
reference agencies and the affordability checks showed these loans to be affordable.
Ms H didnt tell Morses she was having financial difficulties.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed to me to resolve. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to still uphold 
Ms Hs complaint, but only about loan eight. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in 
italics and smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ms H (or her representative) havent disagreed with the adjudicators findings in relation to
loans 1  5. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I need to
make a finding about them. But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the
overall lending relationship between Morses and Ms H.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether it was reasonable to advance loans 6 - 8 to
Ms H.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms H could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks couldve taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Hs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms H. These factors include:
Ms H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms H.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms H could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms H was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Hs complaint.
Loans 6 and 7
The adjudicator upheld these loans because she concluded that by now these loans were
harmful for Ms H because it was now unsustainable to continue to lend to her given that her
lending hadnt decreased, she was committed to spending further time in debt and she
appeared to have some repayment problems.
I can understand why the adjudicator has concluded this, but I dont think, Morses wouldve
concluded that these loans were now harmful to Ms H as this time.
I accept, that Ms H had been indebted with Morses for nearly two years, which in some
situations could be a sign that she was now reliant on these loans or at the very least having
longer term money management problems. Neither can I ignore that the lending was mostly
consecutive, which could show that Ms H had a continued need for credit  without a break.
But I also have to keep in mind that these loans were for fairly small sums to be repaid over
a longer period of time than say a payday loan  meaning weekly repayments of £15 per
week.
While, Ms H had taken slightly longer to repay to repay loan 5 (35 weeks compared to a
repayment term of 33 weeks), I dont think I can fairly uphold this loan solely because in
effect Ms H had been indebted to Morses for around two years.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morse wouldve or ought to have realised that
these loans were unsustainable for Ms H, but that doesnt mean Morses did all it shouldve
done before advancing these loans.
Ms H had declared her weekly income and outgoings which left her for these loans with
between £244 and £256 of disposable income each week. Which was more than sufficient in
order to meet her contractual repayment of no more than £15. This may have then led
Morses to believe that Ms H had sufficient disposable income and could afford the loan
repayments.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think the time in
debt and the fact that Ms Hs lending had increased again by loan seven ought to have
prompted it to consider whether it knew enough about Ms Hs financial position.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Ms H declared to it
about her income and expenditure. Even though this information suggested Ms H could
afford the loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Hs actual financial position to
ensure these two loans were affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as
asking for evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Ms Hs general financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Ms H couldnt afford them.Ms Hs representative hasnt been able to provide copies of her bank statements (which may
have showed us and Morses what other commitments Ms H had and / or her living costs) or
any other information that shows what Ms Hs actual financial position at the time these
loans were advanced.
So, without any further information from Ms H about her other living costs which, its difficult
for me to conclude what Morses wouldve likely seen had it made better checks.
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest
Morses shouldnt have lent these loans. Even considering what Ms H declared to Morses for
her income and expenditure. Im therefore minded to think it was reasonable for Morses to
have provided these loans.
As this is the case, Im intending to not uphold Ms Hs complaint about these loans.
Loan 8
However, I do think Morses shouldnt have approved this loan. Ive already outlined above,
why now, I dont think Morses checks went far enough. So in addition to looking at the
checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history with
Ms H, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Hs case, I think that this point was reached by
loan 8. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms H was not managing to repay her
loans sustainably. Ms H had taken out six loans in this chain of lending within 39
months So Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms H was
having to borrow further to cover a long term short fall in her living costs.
Ms H had shown that shed had problems repaying her loans late, each loan in the
second chain of lending had been repaid slightly later than Morses had anticipated. I
think, the fact this had happened on each loan was an indication she was struggling
to meet her weekly commitment.
From the first loan in this chain onwards, Ms H generally provided with a new loan on the 
same day a previous loan had been repaid.
Ms H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan eight
was taken out over three years after Ms Hs first loan in the second chain. And her
final loan was for the same amount as her first. Ms H had paid large amounts of
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Ms H lost out because Morses provided loan eight because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Hs indebtedness by allowing her to
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms H borrowed was likely to
have had negative implications on Ms Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan eight only, and Ive outlined below what Morses
needs to do in order to put things right for Ms H.
Response to the Provisional Decision
Both Ms H and Morses were asked to provide any further comments and evidence they 
wanted considering as soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 
15 September 2022.Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge receipt of the provisional decision. 
Ms Hs representative said the following (verbatim);
We have looked at the provisional outcome from the Ombudsman and we would like 
to confirm with you whilst you are upholding Loans 8
Does that mean also Loans 1-5 is upheld still by Morses that they offered first time.
An adjudicator clarified the proposed uphold with Ms Hs representative who said;
 the upholding of the 1 loan is fine please carry on with case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to hear that Ms Hs representative accepted the findings about loan eight only. 
However, Ms Hs representative initially said loans 1  5 are upheld as well as Morses 
previously offered. For completeness, Ive reviewed the information on file, and I cant see 
that loans 1  5 have ever been offered on. 
Looking at the final response letter from Morses, it said the complaint wouldnt be upheld 
and didnt make an offer to settle the complaint. 
The adjudicator, in her assessment, explained why she wasnt upholding the complaint 
about loans 1  5. But instead would uphold loans 6  8. But I disagreed with the 
adjudicators outcome which is why a provisional decision was issued. 
Given the information Morses collected from Ms H about loans 1  5, the gap in lending, her 
repayment history and the value of the loans, I agree with the adjudicator that Morses made 
a reasonable decision to provide these loans. This means I am not upholding Ms Hs 
complaint about these loans. 
Overall, I do think, that by the time of loans 6 and 7 that Morses needed to do further checks 
before it granted these loans. But as, I couldnt conclude what Morses wouldve likely 
discovered by carrying out further checks I wasnt able to uphold Ms Hs complaint about 
loan 6 and 7 either. 
Finally, I still think, for the reasons Ive outlined in the provisional decision that loan 8 should 
have been granted as the lending was now unsustainable for Ms H. 
Ive gone on below to outline what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Ms H. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not provided loan eight, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms H may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided loan eight and I am planning to direct it to do the following;
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms H towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms H originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Ms H the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Ms Hs borrowing for loan eight means any information 
recorded about it is adverse, so Morses should remove the loan entirely from Ms Hs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Hs 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms H as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman