DRN-2613757
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined a 
claim for storm damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W contacted Lloyds following Storm Dennis, reporting some damage to the roof 
of their home.
Lloyds arranged for a loss adjuster to visit the property. In the meantime, Mr and Mrs W 
arranged for repairs to be carried out.
Lloyds declined the claim for the external damage on the basis that there were no storm 
conditions around the time the damage occurred. But it later accepted it was wrong about 
this and offered Mr and Mrs W £75 in recognition of its mistake. It also said itd cover the 
internal damage under the policy. However, Lloyds still said it wouldnt cover the damage 
caused to the roof, because it hadnt had a chance to inspect the damage before the roof 
was repaired.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with Lloyds decision. They said theyd spoken to Lloyds in 
February 2020 and that Lloyds had advised them to obtain quotes for the repair. Mr and 
Mrs W also said that when the loss adjuster visited the property, the damaged lead from the 
roof was in the garden and available for inspection. So, Mr and Mrs W referred their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the information both parties had provided and didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly by 
deciding not to cover the claim for the external damage, based on the fact it hadnt been able 
to properly inspect the damage.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators assessment, so the complaint has now 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W will be 
disappointed with this, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs Ws policy with Lloyds includes cover for loss or damage caused by a storm. 
When we consider complaints about damage arising from a storm, we ask three key 
questions:
Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have 
happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
The answer to all of the above questions must be yes in order for this service to conclude 
that a claim for storm damage should be met.
In relation to the first question, Ive considered how Mr and Mrs Ws policy defines storm 
conditions. It says storm conditions are present if there are strong winds with gusts of at 
least 55mph. And Im satisfied, from looking at the weather reports from around the time, 
that the wind speeds were much greater than this  around 84mph. So I can safely conclude 
that the requirement that storm conditions must be present has been met. 
Im also satisfied, based on all the evidence provided, that its likely the damage claimed for 
was consistent with typical storm damage. I say this because Mr and Mrs W reported water 
coming into the property, dislodged roof slates and a puncture to the lead valley gutter lining 
as well as damage to the chimney. High level storm force winds could dislodge roof tiles, 
with the accompanying rainfall leading to water entering a property. So Id consider this sort 
of damage to be consistent with damage a storm typically causes.
However, in relation to the third question, I need to rely on expert evidence to decide 
whether its likely the storm was the main cause of the damage. So Ive looked at the 
inspection report Lloyds has provided from its appointed loss adjuster. This says in relation 
to the external damage, that as the repairs to the roof had been carried out before the 
inspection, there was very little evidence to suggest that the property had been affected by 
storm damage. A letter provided by Mr and Mrs W, however, from their own contractors, 
says the damage was caused by storms that took place in February 2020.
Ive considered both the report and the letter carefully. And Im more persuaded by the 
findings of the loss adjuster here. The photographs provided in the report do show some 
deterioration, but theres no independent evidence to show that the storm was the main 
cause of this. And while the letter from Mr and Mrs Ws contractors says the storm was the 
cause, it doesnt go into any detail or provide any evidence in support of this opinion. The 
loss adjusters report is, in contrast, more detailed and offers other possible explanations for 
the external damage. So I cant safely conclude that the storm was the main cause of the 
damage that occurred.
In response to our investigators view, Mr and Mrs W have made a number of points, all of 
which Ive considered carefully. Theyve reiterated that they contacted Lloyds in 
February 2020 to register the claim and Lloyds told them to get quotes for repairs. However, 
Lloyds doesnt have a record of any contact from Mr and Mrs W around that time. Mr W has 
said his phone from the time has broken so he has been unable to provide evidence that 
they contacted Lloyds to register the claim in February. And I dont doubt that this is Mr and 
Mrs Ws genuine recollection of events. But even if they did contact Lloyds in February, I 
think itd be unlikely for Lloyds to encourage Mr and Mrs W to commence repair work by 
asking them to obtain quotes. This is because claims like these usually require a detailed 
inspection first, to see if the claim will be covered under a policy, and the policy says Do 
notcarry out any non-emergency repairs before we have had a chance to inspect them. 
Theres conflicting evidence about whether Lloyds wouldve been able to carry out a proper 
inspection of the damage. Mr and Mrs Ws testimony mentions that the damaged lead valley 
was in the garden, available for the loss adjuster to inspect. However, the loss adjuster 
doesnt mention the presence of the damaged lead in the report. Where theres conflicting 
evidence, I have to consider what I think most likely to have happened. And Im more persuaded by the loss adjusters report, which doesnt mention an inspection 
of the damaged lead. Because I think its more likely the loss adjuster wouldve mentioned it 
had it been available for him to inspect. 
So I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong in saying it wont cover the external damage 
for the reasons its given. It follows therefore, that Im satisfied Lloyds offer to cover the 
internal work and pay £75 for trouble and upset is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W but my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman