DRN-2331953
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) should have done more to help 
her when she wanted to access and make changes to a joint account shed held with her 
late husband. 
What happened
Mrs O wrote to Barclays in March 2019. She explained that her husband had died in 
December 2018, and she wanted their joint account to continue in her sole name. She asked 
for a new debit card, and for a correspondence address in the UK to be changed. 
Barclays wrote a letter responding to this, in April. But Mrs O says she didnt receive it. The 
letter explained that Mrs O would need to provide something to identify herself and confirm 
her link to the new UK address. 
In May, Mrs O called Barclays about the matter. But she wasnt able to pass the banks 
security processes. She wrote to Barclays a few days later, with a letter from a bank local to 
her that confirmed her signature. 
In October, a relative of Mrs Os then complained to Barclays on her behalf. They said it had 
taken too long to allow her to be able to access the account, and they wanted the situation 
sorted out. Barclays response confirmed the account had already been put in Mrs Os sole 
name, issued a new debit card to the updated UK address, and added a marker to her 
record to take extra steps when speaking to Mrs O on the phone. Barclays also offered £250 
compensation for the impact on Mrs O, but Mrs Os representative felt this wasnt high 
enough.
The matter was brought to us. Our investigator felt there had been delays in Barclays 
handling of the matter, but not for the 10 months that Mrs O said. He explained that Barclays 
had now sorted out Mrs Os account access. And he felt the £250 compensation theyd 
offered was suitable to recognise the impact on Mrs O. 
Mrs Os representative still felt the compensation wasnt enough, and asked for the matter to 
be looked at again. The case has now come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate Mrs O feels more compensation is needed in this case, Ill explain 
why I find the £250 offered by Barclays is suitable here. 
A first point of dispute is when Mrs O first told Barclays she wanted to make changes to the 
joint account she held with her late husband. Her representative says she wrote to Barclays 
in January 2019, but the first letter Ive seen is dated 6 March. Mrs Os letter on that date 
didnt make any mention of an earlier letter, which gives weight in my view to it being the first 
time shed told Barclays about the changes she wanted to make to the account. 
The next point of dispute is whether Barclays responded to that letter. Mrs O didnt receive a 
response, but I dont agree with her representatives conclusion that Barclays therefore didnt 
respond. Ive seen two letters dated 3 April which appear to be direct responses to Mrs Os 
letter in March. I cant see anything Barclays did caused those letters not to arrive with 
Mrs O, so I dont think its fair to hold them responsible for Mrs O not receiving them. 
Those letters did enough in my view to explain that Barclays couldnt action Mrs Os 
requests at that time. The bank wanted confirmation that the changes had genuinely come 
from Mrs O. That sort of precaution ultimately had her best interests at heart, as it sought to 
avoid a fraudulent change being made to her account. Im not going to fault Barclays for that 
precaution, even though I appreciate it meant Mrs O had to do more to get the changes she 
wanted made to her account. 
Likewise, I can appreciate it was frustrating for Mrs O that she couldnt then resolve the 
matter over the phone in May 2019. But she hadnt been able to satisfy Barclays security 
processes, so there was again a well-intentioned precaution against making the changes 
she wanted. Again, Im not going to fault Barclays for trying to keep Mrs Os account secure, 
even though that meant she still wasnt able to make the changes she wanted to make. 
But from receipt of Mrs Os letter in May, I find Barclays could have done more to make the 
changes she wanted to her account, or let her know if there was more she needed to do to 
make them happen. The changes were eventually all done in October, but only after the 
complaint was raised. I can appreciate that would have been frustrating for Mrs O, 
particularly after it had by then been seven months since her March letter asked for the 
changes to be made. 
My role, where I find a service has fallen short, is to find a remedy that will, as much as 
possible, put the matter right for the complainant. I should stress, Im not looking to punish 
Barclays, just to put things right for Mrs O. 
Here, I can see the changes Mrs O wanted have now been made. So the only point left to 
remedy is the trouble and upset caused for Mrs O by the delay. 
I find the unreasonable service here caused a delay from late May or early June  whenever 
Mrs Os 13 May letter was received by Barclays  to mid-October, when Barclays actioned 
her requests. In that time, I can appreciate she wasnt able to access her money, a pension, 
being paid into the account. But it also appears Mrs O had another bank account she used. 
And I cant see evidence that the delay caused her financial hardship or distress. 
With all this in mind, while putting a financial figure on an emotional impact is always going 
to be a matter of opinion, I find Barclays offer of £250 compensation is right for this case. I 
can appreciate Mrs O is frustrated by the total time its taken to change her account. But for 
the first few months of that time, Barclays dont appear to have been told about those 
changes. And after that, the matter was delayed by issues with the post beyond Barclays 
control, and their justified and well-intentioned efforts to keep Mrs Os account secure. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint, as the steps Barclays have already taken, and the £250 
compensation they offered, do enough to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman