DRN-1994952
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are not happy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) returned their cheque and then 
paid it when it had been re-presented, even though they had made alternative arrangements 
for payment and had asked Lloyds to have it stopped.
What happened
On 5 July 2019 Mr M issued a cheque for £1000. A few days later he received a letter 
explaining that the cheque couldnt be paid because there was no mandate. Unsure of what 
this meant Mr M went to his local branch to find out what had happened. He was told that 
they didnt hold a signature on file for him, and so no cheques could be paid from his 
account without a new signature mandate being signed. He was also told that the cheque 
would not be represented. Mr M felt that his signature should have been on their system so 
wasnt happy with their reason for not paying his cheque. The bank manager gave him a 
complaint leaflet so he could raise a complaint if he wanted. Rather than issue another 
cheque, Mr M decided to raise the cash instead to make the payment.
On 10 July 2019 Mrs M received a call from Lloyds clearing department asking for 
authorisation to pay the cheque as it had been re-presented. Although it wasnt a convenient 
time for her to talk, she explained that they had already paid with cash and didnt need the 
cheque to go through anymore. Later that day Mr M reviewed a mini statement for his 
account only to find that the cheque had been paid. Unhappy with this, Mr M called Lloyds 
that same day. During the phone call he was assured the cheque would be stopped; he was 
offered £122 for compensation and costs and told to expect the money within 24 hours. He 
was also told that a complaint would be set up, and that hed receive a full explanation of 
what had happened in writing. 
Around 24 hours later Mr M checked his bank statement and found that the money promised 
hadnt been paid, so he called Lloyds again. During that call he learned that the complaint 
hed raised the day before had been closed, with only an acknowledgement letter sent out to 
him. Mr M raised the complaint again and was offered additional compensation for the 
inconvenience which he declined.
On 18 July 2019, Mr and Mrs M received the overpayment back into their account from the 
payee of the cheque. 
During the course of his complaint with Lloyds, Mr M had several phone conversations with 
the complaints manager. During one of those calls he was told that they understood his wife 
had given authorisation on 10 July 2019 for the cheque to be paid. Believing that to be 
incorrect Mr M asked that the complaints manager listen to the call recording of his wife 
authorising the cheque payment. When the complaints manager listened to the call, she 
concluded that Mrs M had in fact not given her consent for the cheque to be paid. 
On 28 August 2019, Lloyds sent their final response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. The letter 
explained that his signature was in fact held on file, but not on all their databases. This 
meant that when the clearings department were checking for his signature, in order to 
authorise the cheque, they couldnt find it. Lloyds upheld the complaint and offered an 
additional £500 compensation. Mr M declined this amount believing that Lloyds should be 
held more accountable for their actions. He felt the offer didnt fairly reflect the distress and 
inconvenience he and his wife had experienced, particularly as the incident happened at a 
very sensitive time and caused additional personal difficulties within the family. 
Unhappy with the final response from Lloyds, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to us 
here. One of our investigators reviewed their concerns and felt that Lloyds had done enough 
to put things right and didnt uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs M have asked for an 
ombudsman to review their complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered whether Lloyds did what it should have done when processing Mr and 
Mrs Ms cheque; and how their actions may have impacted Mr and Mrs M. Having looked at 
everything afresh, Im not going to ask Lloyds to pay any additional compensation to Mr and 
Mrs M, beyond that which has already been offered. Ill explain why, but before I do so, Id 
like to acknowledge that these events occurred at a particularly difficult time for Mr and Mrs 
M. And Id like to reassure them that my decision is in no way intended to minimise the 
impact of Lloyds actions or their wider situation.
On 8 July 2019 Mr M was notified by Lloyds that the cheque hed written had not been paid. 
When he went into his local Lloyds branch to query this, they told him that they didnt hold 
his signature on file. However, following an investigation, it was determined that Mr Ms 
signature mandate was held by Lloyds but hadnt been applied to all their databases, or 
wasnt accessible to all parts of the business. This was why the cheque hadnt been paid. I 
dont think its unreasonable that Mr M was unhappy about this. Lloyds has a responsibility to 
ensure its processes are working effectively to meet their customers financial needs, and on 
this occasion, they failed to do so.
On 10 July 2019, when Mr M first complained to Lloyds about the cheque being paid earlier 
that day, it was clear to him that neither he nor his wife had given consent for the payment. 
He was told by Lloyds that the cheque would not be paid and would be cancelled. However, 
as the cheque had already been paid it was very unlikely that it could be cancelled at that 
stage and repaid to Mr Ms account. At this point, although Mr M had now made the payment 
twice, he believed the cheque would be stopped by Lloyds; so, I think it was fair for Lloyds at 
that stage to offer a payment of £122 for compensation and costs incurred.
After Mr M complained in writing, it came to light through a phone recording that on 10 July 
2019, Mrs M hadnt given her consent for the cheque to be paid. I think Lloyds clearly made 
an error here, and it was right that they acknowledged their mistake in their response and 
offer a further £500 for the distress and inconvenience that had been caused. 
When the cheque was originally declined, I think this would have caused a degree of undue 
pressure, potential embarrassment and distress to Mr and Mrs M, particularly at a time of 
heightened sensitivity. The events that followed were also problematic for Mr and Mrs M as 
they were attempting to get to the bottom of why the cheque hadnt been paid, and then paid 
without their consent. I think Lloyds were right to acknowledge these mistakes and offer 
compensation to help put things right. These events happened at an already difficult and sensitive time for Mr and Mrs M. They 
caused upset and inconvenience Mr and Mrs M could well have done without, including 
additional tension within the family. Having thought through everything carefully, Im satisfied 
that Lloyds offer of an additional £500 compensation, on top of the £122 compensation and 
costs already paid, is fair and reasonable to reflect the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
To settle the complaint Lloyds have already made an offer to pay an additional £500 
compensation, in addition to the £122 already paid for compensation and costs incurred on 
11 July 2019. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay £500 to Mr and Mrs M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman