DRN-1676281
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about the delay by Sainsbury's Bank Plc in applying an overpayment 
to their mortgage and the related service.
What happened
On 25 February 2019, Mr and Mrs O made an overpayment of £250 to their mortgage, but it 
wasn't applied to the mortgage. When Mr and Mrs O couldn't locate the payment they 
contacted Sainsbury's Bank. They say the overall service from Sainsbury's Bank was poor 
and they were given conflicting information.
Our investigator said that Sainsbury's Bank could have been clearer in explaining what had 
happened. But Sainsbury's Bank has backdated the payment, apologised and offered £250 
compensation - including an element for any additional interest. He thought that was a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve the complaint. Mr and Mrs O didn't accept what the 
investigator said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've looked carefully through the evidence provided by Mr and Mrs O and Sainsbury's Bank. 
Having done so, I think the explanation given by the investigator in his email of 26 February 
2020 is an accurate summary of what happened.
It's clear that Sainsbury's Bank didn't handle this matter very well. But it says it applied the 
overpayment on 8 March and then backdated it to 1 March. Based on the evidence we have 
I am satisfied it has done so. Sainsbury's Bank says its systems prevent it backdating the 
payment any further than that. It has also offered Mr and Mrs O £250. This includes an 
amount for any additional interest they paid as a result of the delay in applying the 
overpayment.
I note the same issue happened in March. The overpayment was made on 25 March but not 
applied until 9 April and then backdated to 1 April. 
I am satisfied that the offer of £250 compensates Mr and Mrs O for any additional interest 
they will have paid over both periods. I also consider that it fairly compensates them for any 
stress, upset, frustration and worry this matter has caused them. That reflects the poor 
service and lack of clarity from Sainsbury's Bank. But the adjustments to Mr and Mrs O's 
mortgage, the apology and the offer of £250 are a fair and reasonable way to resolve this 
complaint - and is as much as I would have awarded had I upheld this complaint in full. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Sainsbury's Bank Plc should pay Mr and Mrs O £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
Ken Rose
Ombudsman