DRN-3864322
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, reported adverse
information to her credit file when she believed her account was on a payment holiday.
What happened
In March 2021, Miss J applied for payment holiday with Virgin because she was having
trouble meeting the monthly payments that were becoming due on her account because of
the financial impact on her of the Covid-19 pandemic. Her application was successful, and
Virgin implemented a payment holiday on her account so that Miss J wasnt required to pay
the April, May, and June payments on her account. The terms of this payment holiday
included that the payments not made during the payment holiday wouldnt be reported to the
credit reference agencies as missed payments.
 
As the payment holiday period was coming to an end, Miss J applied to Virgin for an
extension which would mean the payment holiday ran until the end of July 2021. However,
Virgin didnt implement the payment holiday extension, and when Miss J didnt make the July
2021 payment, they reported the account to the credit reference agencies as having fallen
into arrears. Miss J wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
 
Virgin looked at Miss Js complaint. They explained that they had no record of Miss J
applying for an extension to the payment holiday, and so they didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss J wasnt satisfied with Virgins response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Miss J had most likely
applied for the extension to the payment holiday, and so they recommended that the
complaint be upheld in Miss Js favour and that Virgin should backdate the payment holiday
accordingly  including amending Miss Js credit file  and make a payment of £75 to Miss J
as compensation for any trouble and upset shed incurred. Virgin didnt respond to the view
of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the matter was escalated to an
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 November 2022 as follows:
Its clear that Miss J and Virgin disagree on what happened here. This includes that 
Miss J states she applied for an extension to the payment holiday, while Virgin have 
no record of receiving any such application extension, as well as that Virgin maintain
that they informed Miss J of the need to make a payment towards the account in July 
2021, which Miss J states wasnt the case.
 
In situations such as this, where the testimonies of the complainant and respondent 
party are in disagreement, I have to decide  if I feel its reasonably possible to do so 
 what sequence of events I feel is most likely to have happened, on balance, and in 
consideration of all the information and evidence available to me.
 
In this instance, while I dont doubt that Miss J acted to apply for an extension to the 
payment holiday that was in place, I feel its most likely that this extension application 
wasnt completed correctly such that it was never received and assessed by Virgin.
 
I say this both because Miss J hasnt been able to provide any confirmatory letter or
message sent by Virgin which confirmed that her payment holiday had been 
extended, and also because Virgin have provided their system notes for Miss Js 
account to this service, and these dont indicate that any such extension application 
was ever received by them. 
What Virgins system notes do demonstrate is that when the initial payment holiday 
was coming to an end, Virgin recognised this and sent a letter and then later a text 
message to Miss J to confirm that her payment holiday was ending and that monthly 
payments would be required on the account once again. And Virgin have also 
provided this service with a copy of the letter  dated 5 July 2021  that they sent to 
Miss J in this regard.
 
As such, even if Miss J had believed that she was in a payment holiday that had 
been extended, I feel that the receipt of this letter and text message from Virgin 
should have reasonably indicated to her that Virgin were expecting a payment from 
her in July 2021 such that she should have contacted them to confirm whether the 
payment holiday extension she believed was in place had actually been implemented 
by Virgin.
 
Ultimately, I find it difficult to conclude that Virgin have done anything wrong here, 
and this is because I feel that Virgin didnt in all likelihood receive an application to 
extend Miss Js payment holiday, and because Virgin dont have any record of 
confirming to Miss J that such an extension had been granted but instead do have 
record of informing Miss J that the payment holiday on her account was coming to an 
end.
 
Accordingly, when Miss J didnt make the payment that was due on her account in 
July 2021, I dont feel that Virgin acted unfairly by reporting that missed payment to 
the credit reference agencies as they did. And I also feel that Virgin provided 
reasonable notice to Miss J that a payment was expected of her in July 2021 as 
described above. All of which means that my provisional decision here is that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing Virgin to take any further action.
Miss J raised several points in response to my provisional decision letter. However, several 
of these points refer to events which sit outside the scope of this complaint, and none relate 
to the main tenant of my provisional decision, which is that I feel that Virgin provided clear 
communication to Miss J that payments were expected from her on the account from July 
2021 onwards. 
For instance, Miss J has explained that she didnt make a payment towards her account in 
March 2021, but that she incurred no charge from Virgin for not making the payment, and 
neither was it reported as a missed payment to her credit file. And Miss J feels that this 
demonstrates that Virgins understanding of the status of her account is flawed. 
Its evident from the account statements provided by Miss J that she didnt make a payment 
in March 2021, and so it seems Miss J may have benefited from Virgin not charging her for missing a minimum monthly payment or reporting the missed payment to her credit file as 
should have been the case.
It seems likely to me that Miss Js good fortune here was a consequence of Virgin applying 
the payment holiday to her account that they did. But it doesnt follow from Virgins actions 
surrounding the start of the payment holiday that Virgin did anything wrong in regard to how 
they managed the end of the payment holiday, and it remains my position that Virgin did 
provide clear communication to Miss J that she would be required to resume payments on 
her account from July 2021 onwards. 
All of which means that I remain satisfied that Virgin havent acted unfairly towards Miss J as 
she contends here, and it follows from this that my final decision will be that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Virgin to take any further action. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Miss J was wanting, but I trust shell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman