DRN-2705670
The complaint
Mr H complains about the handling of his claim for an escape of water at his home, by his 
home insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA). 
 
What happened
In June 2020 Mr H had an escape of water in his kitchen that spread throughout the ground 
floor of his home causing damage to flooring. Mr H was unhappy with how RSA handled his 
initial call and said he was just asked to get photos and a quote. RSA paid Mr H £25 
compensation for this.
RSA sent flooring contractors and then loss adjusters to assess the damage. The property 
needed to be dried and a scope of works prepared. In August 2020 Mr H told RSA he was 
unhappy that the laminate floor in the lounge wasnt included in the repairs as it had swollen 
in places. RSA sent its loss adjusters back in early October 2020 and they acknowledged 
that damage was present there. Mr H said a re-visit shouldnt have been necessary. 
Mr H complained to RSA about delays in dealing with his claim, particularly due to the 
incomplete scope of work from the initial visits. He said this had an adverse impact on his 
wife, who has a medical condition, and was trying to cope with uneven flooring. He said 
RSAs contractors hadnt worn protective equipment. And RSA had communicated poorly.
RSA said it needed to re-visit as its assessors hadnt seen evidence of damage to Mr Hs 
lounge floor previously. RSA said it would pay the extra utility costs Mr H incurred for drying 
out his home. RSA apologised to Mr H for its contractors not wearing protective equipment.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. He said it was reasonable 
for RSA to request a further visit to assess Mr Hs lounge flooring. And he thought RSA 
responded properly to Mr Hs messages. But he said RSA delayed arranging the re-visit and 
should pay Mr H £100 compensation and £100 for failing to ensure its contractors wore 
protective equipment on their visit. He said RSA should pay Mr Hs increased heating costs. 
Mr H agreed with the investigator, but RSA did not. RSA didnt think the compensation for 
the delayed re-visit was fair as this was due to Mr H and his wifes holiday abroad and 
isolating afterwards. The complaint has been referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H was frustrated at the time taken to resolve his claim. Unfortunately, the damage to his 
lounge floor wasnt identified on first inspection. I can see Mr H provided RSA with photos of 
the damage to his flooring and said a further visit shouldnt have been necessary. I dont 
know if the damage in this room had been properly investigated, certainly Mr H didnt think 
so.
However, the repair of the lounge flooring added considerably to the cost of the claim and 
moisture hadnt been detected there previously. Also, I think its quite hard to detect damage 
from the photos and so I think it was reasonable for RSA to want its loss adjusters to re-visit. 
Ive looked at the record of the claim from RSA and Mr Hs timeline. The need for another 
visit delayed resolution of the claim and Mr H was concerned about the effect of the uneven 
flooring on his wifes medical condition. I have taken into consideration that Mr H and Mrs H 
were away for part of September 2020 and isolated immediately afterwards. However, RSA 
was aware of Mrs Hs condition and so although there wasnt huge delay following Mr H 
notifying RSA on 19 August 2020, until the visit in early October, I think this would have 
added considerably to Mr and Mrs Hs anxiety.
On balance I think its fair that RSA pay Mr H £100 compensation for the delay in arranging 
the visit. I agree with the investigator that on the whole RSA responded properly to Mr Hs 
emails and phone messages. 
I think the people RSA sent to assess the damage at Mr Hs home should have worn 
protective equipment to reduce the possibility of causing infection to Mr H, or his wife. RSA 
was aware that she was vulnerable and ought to have ensured the proper precautions were 
taken. RSA has apologised to Mr H for this and agreed the compensation of £100 and I think 
this is fair. RSA has agreed to meet Mr Hs reasonable additional utility costs and he needs 
to provide RSA with the information about this.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr £200 compensation in total in respect of 
delays on the claim and lack of protective equipment used by its contractors. RSA can 
deduct £100 compensation from this if this has already been paid for its contractors not 
wearing protective equipment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman