DRN-4189448
The complaint
Miss M has complained PayrNet Limited, trading as Pockit, wont refund two payments she 
didnt make.
What happened
In October 2022 Miss M contacted Pockit as shed noticed two transactions for £850 and 
£830 had debited from her card. She never got a complete response so brought her 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Miss M provided copies of her correspondence with Pockit despite never receiving a final 
response which related to this issue.
Our investigator asked Pockit (through PayrNet) to provide us with relevant evidence of the 
disputed transactions. She received nothing. She felt, in the absence of any evidence as 
required by the Payment Services Regulations, that Pockit should refund £1,680 to Miss M, 
along with 8% simple interest and £150 for the lack of customer service which had added to 
Miss Ms distress.
Miss M accepted this outcome. PayrNet provided evidence theyd now received from Pockit. 
Our investigator noted this evidence didnt relate to the complaint Miss M had made. 
Miss Ms complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Miss Ms complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and electronic money institutions, 
like PayrNet, to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Other factors do apply but nothing else specific in Miss Ms case.
The PSRs also require financial institutions to provide evidence that they relied upon in 
rejecting any claim about disputed transactions. Like our investigator, Ive reviewed the 
evidence PayrNet has provided. Im able to confirm nothing provided to our service was 
relevant to the complaint Miss M has made.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions 
themselves. Specifically:
I can see Miss M notified Pockit that she didnt recognise these transactions as soon 
as she noticed these.
She also confirmed in one of her emails to Pockit that she no longer had her card in 
her possession.
These high-value debits didnt match any other transactions Ive reviewed on 
Miss Ms statements.
The debits were made just after Miss M received a large payment from the 
Department for Work and Pensions which enabled two large debits to be made.
Overall I believe its more than likely Miss M didnt authorise these transactions. 
Putting things right
As I dont believe Miss M authorised these two transactions, I will be instructing PayrNet to 
refund these two amounts in full. This was a considerable amount of money for someone so 
young to be without so its only right that 8% simple interest is added to the amount to be 
repaid.
I can also see that Pockit disputed ever hearing from Miss M despite evidence to the 
contrary. I think its fair they also pay her £150 for the additional distress their lack of 
customer service caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct PayrNet Limited to:
Refund £1,680 to Miss M;
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 24 October 2022 to the settlement date; 
and
Pay Miss M £150 for the distress caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman