DRN-3442362
The complaint
Mr A, with the assistance of his representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as Everyday Loans has treated him unfairly after he cancelled a loan agreement with 
it.
What happened
Mr A borrowed £1000 from Everyday Loans on 5 February 2020. The agreed monthly 
repayment amount was £109.52 to be repaid over 18 months. Shortly after taking the loan 
out and discussing this with his family, Mr A decided the interest rate was too high and he let 
Everyday Loans know on 19 February 2020 that he wished to cancel the agreement.
Everyday Loans said the terms of the agreement mean it can be cancelled within 14 working 
days of being taken out. And once cancelled, the funds need to be repaid within 30 working 
days. If this doesnt happen then interest will be applied to the borrowed amount until repaid.
Mr A cancelled the direct debit instruction on 21 February 2020 and made manual payments 
to the account. On 16 March he called to pay £81.52 to top up previous smaller payments to 
the monthly amount due on the 15th of £109.52. He said the direct debit wouldnt be 
reinstated as he was expecting to repay the balance of the loan soon with the help of family. 
On 28 May, Mr A called to request a settlement figure for the loan and challenged the cost of 
this. Interest had been added inline with the agreed amount and he didnt think this was fair 
as hed let Everyday Loans know he wanted to cancel the loan within 14 days. 
Mr A didnt repay the £1000 borrowed until 11 June 2020 and so Everyday Loans have said 
the terms and conditions of the loan are enforceable and interest has been applied in line 
with the terms of the agreement. In short the balance of a £1000 borrowed is no longer what 
was required to settle the account. It said its entitled to pursue Mr A for any arrears on the 
account and report monthly on the status of the account with credit reference agencies.
Mr A doesnt agree and has complained about his continued collection action by Everyday 
Loans. He feels hes already paid more than he should for the borrowing with him having 
repaid £40 more than the £1000 borrowed  hes said hed like this back and compensation 
for the stress of being pursued for arrears which he doesnt think he should pay. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think Everyday Loans had done anything 
wrong. They felt the action taken was fair as the loan hadnt been repaid when Mr A said he 
wanted to cancel it so Everyday Loans was entitled to seek repayment in line with the 
agreement and when interest was added, a balance remained even after hes repaid the 
£1000. 
Mr A disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr A, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr A feels that his notice of the loan being cancelled within 14 days should be sufficient to 
mean Everyday Loans can stop charging interest as hes said hes withdrawn from the 
agreement.  The loan did provide a cooling off period of 14 days which meant he could 
change his mind within this time, but Mr A needed to do more than simply say he no longer 
agreed to the loans terms and conditions to cancel the agreement. The agreement says the 
following:
If you do give us notice to withdraw you must repay without delay and in any event no later 
than 30 calendar days after giving notice of withdrawal to us the whole of the credit.
If you repay it all within this period, you will not have to pay any interest.
Mr A had already taken receipt of the £1000 borrowed when he called to say hed changed 
his mind. So he needed to, on confirming he no longer wanted the loan, repay the money 
borrowed. And in line with the terms and conditions, he was allowed a further 30 days from 
this point without interest being added to the total. Some payments were made over the 
proceeding weeks and months but Mr A didnt clear the entire balance of the loan within 30 
days. He didnt pay this amount until the 11 June and by this point Everyday Loans said the 
loan agreement could no longer be cancelled without interest being applied.
Everyday Loans has added interest to the loan in line with the terms and conditions. 
Although Mr A may not like the interest rate offered here, he did agree to the terms and 
conditions when he took the loan out. And without repaying the money borrowed within 30 
days after he explained his decision to cancel the loan, he didnt cancel the agreement. As a 
result, Everyday loans is entitled to apply interest to the loan.
The settlement figure offered on 28 May gave a figure which included the outstanding capital 
amount borrowed plus interest accrued to date. As the loan was going to be repaid early, 
only 28 days interest would be charged from this point, so there was a balance of £472.31 to 
pay. This took account of the payments already made but as interest was added, the total 
amount repayable was in excess of £1000. This looks to be correct so I dont think Everyday 
Loans has acted unfairly when it offered this as the settlement figure. 
Overall, I dont think Everyday Loans has acted unfairly when applying this interest or when 
it has later pursued Mr A for the outstanding arrears on the account. As he didnt repay the  
£1000  within 30 days of giving notice of his withdrawal, Everyday Loans is entitled to add 
interest in line with the account terms and conditions. It is also fair that it records accurately 
how Mr A has managed this loan with credit reference agencies and I think its done nothing 
wrong when sharing this.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman