DRN-1861606
The complaint
Ms S has complained about the decision by Society of Lloyd's (SoL) to decline her claim 
under her unemployment insurance policy.
What happened
On 14 May 2019, Ms S took out an unemployment insurance policy with SoL. After a waiting 
period of 60 days, the policy would pay benefit for up to twelve months in the event that 
Ms S became involuntarily unemployed. The policy was subject to an initial exclusion period 
of 120 days under which no benefit would be paid if Ms S became aware of the possibility of 
impending unemployment within this period. In the case of Ms Ss policy, the initial exclusion 
period therefore lasted until 11 September 2019.
On 16 September 2019, Ms Ss employer gave her three months notice that it was making 
her unemployed. The unemployment took effect from 16 December 2019.
Ms S made a claim to SoL. After gaining obtaining information from her employer, SoL 
declined the claim. It said this was because Ms S had been told by her employer that her job 
was at risk on 22 August 2019 which was within the 120 day exclusion period. 
Ms S complained to SoL about its decision. She disputed that she should have been aware 
in August 2019 that her job was at risk.
SoL wouldnt change its decision. Ms S therefore referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that SoL had acted fairly and in accordance with the terms of the policy.
Ms S didnt accept the investigators findings. The matter has therefore been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy schedule states that an initial exclusion period of 120 days applies. The policy 
states:
No monthly benefit will be payable to you if  you are made aware by any means, before 
the start date or within the initial exclusion period, of anything that might lead to your
unemployment, notwithstanding that no specific reference has been made to your personal 
situation and that your unemployment may not take place until after the initial exclusion 
period
I consider this is reasonably clear and I do not regard it as an unusual term within this type of 
policy.
The information which SoL obtained while it was assessing the claim showed that Ms S was 
working on a project with a particular client of her employer. On 16 August 2019, her 
employer removed Ms S from that project because of concerns over her performance. On 
22 August 2019, her employer informed her at a meeting that over the following three weeks 
she would not need to work but would remain employed as it looked for a suitable internal 
role in which she could be redeployed. It explained that if at the end of that period no 
suitable alternative role could be found she may be issued with her contractual notice period 
of three months. Her employer confirmed all this in a letter of 27 August 2019.
In the event, no suitable alternative role could be found and so Ms S was given her three 
months notice on 16 September 2019 with her unemployment taking effect on 
16 December 2019.
Although Ms S wasnt given her formal three months notice until 16 September 2019, Im 
satisfied she was made aware in August 2019 through both the meeting with her employer 
and its subsequent letter that there was a significant possibility she would imminently be 
made unemployed. Since this took place within the initial exclusion period, I consider it was 
fair for SoL to decline her claim.
Ms S has pointed out that she had passed her probationary period and was employed on a 
permanent contract by her employer, not by the client. She considers that her employer was 
wrong to make her unemployed. However, I am not making any judgement on whether it 
was fair for her employer to end her employment. I am simply considering SoLs actions in 
respect of her claim under her insurance policy. And for the reasons given above, Im 
satisfied it acted fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman