DRN-1991167
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd are chasing her for debts she says she 
doesnt owe.
What happened
Between 2015 and 2017, Lowell purchased three defaulted debts of Miss Rs from three 
different creditors. They purchased some other debts too, but in this decision Ive only 
considered the three accounts with references ending -002, -789, and -042, which were 
regulated by the Consumer Credit Act.
Later in 2017, Miss R worked out affordable repayments with Lowell for two of these three 
accounts. But she stopped the repayments after five months.
In 2019, Miss R started sending Lowell emails which attempted to dispute the legal basis of 
the debt, and which asked for certain documents. Miss R also explained that she was a 
vulnerable customer.
Lowell put the accounts on hold, sent Miss R details for charities who could give her free 
help and advice, and transferred Miss Rs debts to a specialist team for customers in 
difficulties. They sent her  where available  the relevant credit agreements and 
statements, and the notices of assignment. But Miss R said she needed the deeds of 
assignment, and said that unless Lowell sent the deeds, they should write off the debts as 
they werent enforceable.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. He 
explained that our service couldnt decide the legal enforceability of the debts; only a court 
could. But as far as he could see, Lowell had bought debts that Miss R did owe, and she had 
never disputed these debts before 2019. He felt Lowell had treated her appropriately.
Miss R didnt agree. She said she didnt accept these debts were hers, and reiterated that 
she wanted the deeds of assignment. She asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can understand why Miss R would like to make sure that she really does owe these debts 
to Lowell, as she wouldnt want to pay the wrong company.
Miss Rs emails made a number of arguments about the enforceability of the debts. Whether 
or not the debts are legally enforceable is a matter for a court to decide  thats not 
something I have the power to determine. But I would warn Miss R that if something seems 
too good to be true, it often is, and Id be wary of websites or forums that make big promises 
about clearing debts using obscure legal arguments. I would strongly recommend that 
Miss R seeks legal advice from a properly qualified person before attempting to use any of 
these same arguments in court.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence, including a copy of the relevant credit agreements, 
statements, and notices of assignment. I can see that the account references match, and the 
original creditors have written to confirm that they sold Miss Rs debts to Lowell. Theres no 
compelling evidence which suggests that these are not Miss Rs debts. Im satisfied that they 
are hers. So I think its fair that Lowell are chasing her for them.
I can understand if theres been some confusion for Miss R, as from her perspective her 
contracts were with the original creditors rather than Lowell. But debts can and do get sold 
on  its quite normal. And now that Lowell have bought these debts, it means that Miss R 
owes the money to Lowell instead of the original creditors.
Lowell sent the relevant notices of assignment, which I think are sufficient to show that 
Lowell now own the debt. Ive included another copy for Miss R in case she didnt get them. 
Its not clear why Miss R also wants to see the deeds of assignment, which are private 
documents between Lowell and the original debt owners. Lowell explained that the deeds 
contain sensitive information between them and the creditors. Whereas the deeds do not 
contain any of Miss Rs personal data, and Lowell have no obligation to provide the deeds to 
her. So I think its reasonable that they havent.
I dont think that Lowell have communicated with Miss R excessively or unreasonably. It 
looks like theyve honoured her request to deal with things in writing, and have given her the 
information they were supposed to. I think its reasonable for Lowell to ask Miss R to pay 
back the debts that she owes them. And Ive not seen anything in the content, tone, or 
frequency of their communication that seems inappropriate.
When dealing with a vulnerable customer, I would expect businesses to act positively and 
sympathetically. But that doesnt necessarily mean writing off the debts or stopping all 
communication. Here, Lowell have dealt with Miss R in writing as she asked, transferred her 
accounts to a team specifically for customers in her sort of situation, put things on hold to 
give her space to work things out, and gave her the details for charities who could give her 
free and independent debt advice. That seems reasonable.
I hope I can reassure Miss R that Lowell still have a duty to deal with her difficulties 
appropriately. She might want to contact Lowell and see what assistance they might be able 
to offer her. Ive also sent her the details for those free charities again, in case shed like to 
get in touch with them for free advice and help dealing with her debts. And she can always 
get back in touch with our service as a separate complaint if she subsequently feels that 
Lowell have not taken her situation into account when working out how to repay the debts.
But as things stand now, I dont think Lowell have dealt with things unfairly, and I think its 
reasonable for them to ask Miss R to repay the debts she owes.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman