DRN-4427290
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has unfairly declined a 
claim.
What happened
Mrs A has an insurance policy with fracture cover included, underwritten by Aviva.
She suffered an injury and fracture and made a claim on her policy. 
Aviva declined the claim on the basis that the fracture was classed as a stress fracture and 
these were excluded under the terms of the policy. 
Mrs A complained and unhappy with Avivas response, referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Avivas decision and explanation 
were reasonable and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs A disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
And so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy includes an exclusion under the facture cover section which says: We 
wont cover a facture which is classed as fatigue, stress, hairline, avulsion, chip or 
microfracture. 
Mrs A has provided medical evidence from her consultant to show that her fracture is 
a traumatic subchondral fracture. Her consultant has said that her fracture was 
caused by a traumatic incident rather than a chronic stress fracture. 
Avivas chief medical officer has reviewed the medical evidence provided and has 
said the imaging shows a subchondral fracture which would be classified as a stress 
fracture. Mrs As injury was probably the event following repeat small injuries to the 
region and he still considered this a fatigue-induced bone fracture caused by 
repeated stress over time. He referred to the degree of osteoarthritis in the 
surrounding joints. 
Having considered the above, I dont think Mrs As fracture is covered under the 
terms of the policy. It is specifically excluded. Although Mrs A has provided evidence 
that she suffered a traumatic incident, I am satisfied that the type of fracture is 
excluded under the policy terms. I am persuaded by Avivas experts explanation 
about why the fracture would be classed a stress fracture, even if a traumatic incident 
took place. The policy does not require the fracture to happen in a specific way but 
does exclude all stress fractures. So I dont think Aviva unfairly applied the exclusion 
or declined the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman