DRN-4043896
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its account and didnt let it 
have access to its money.
What happened
D says that it provided information for a review by HSBC. But that it wasnt told it hadnt met 
all the requirements. And so didnt expect its account to be closed. HSBC then issued a 
cheque for the closing balance and as this was made payable to D this couldnt be banked. 
D didnt have access to this money for 86 days and wants to be compensated for this.
HSBC said it had asked D for information as part of a safeguard review and to ensure it met 
regulatory and legal requirements. D hadnt provided the information within the timescales it 
had set. And so, the account was closed and a cheque for the closing balance issued in the 
normal way.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and D paid £300 for 
inconvenience. HSBC had first contacted D about the review in August 2020. And had 
followed this up with two reminder letters in September 2020 and one in October 2020. On 
24 November 2020 it sent a notice of account closure on 1 February 2021 unless the 
requirements were met. On 5 February 2021 HSBC confirmed an extension of the closure 
date until 6 March 2021 to allow D time to complete its response. D sent an email on 23 
February 2021 with some further information, and HSBC has told this service was still 
incomplete. But it didnt tell D that and there was an opportunity for this to be rectified. HSBC 
was correct to issue the cheque to D as it was Ds money. HSBC said it would agree to pay 
this compensation.
D didnt agree that the amount was sufficient. It emphasised that HSBC had closed the 
account during the pandemic when it couldnt open another one. The severity of what 
happened hadnt been grasped and D had no way of accessing the funds of over £37,000 
that was in the account. HSBC had refused to allow the cheque to be paid into an account 
other than in the name of D. And if the director of D hadnt been in a position to make a loan 
to D then it would have failed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was reasonable for HSBC to take steps to ensure it met regulatory and legal requirements. 
The way it does so is a matter for it to determine and by its nature may cause a measure of 
inconvenience. Although D had said as part of its complaint that it didnt think HSBC was 
sufficiently resourced for this work during the pandemic, Im not persuaded that this was a 
factor affecting D given my assessment below.
I note from the information provided by HSBC that Ds first response to the safeguard 
requirement was made on 1 December 2020 over three months after the first notification. 
This wasnt complete as it didnt confirm the ownership structure or meet the identification 
and verification requirements for those owners. My understanding is that this was 
complicated by a trust structure. The second submission was noted as being made on 1 
February 2021. And because D had responded in part a short extension to the deadline was 
made to 6 March 2021. HSBC has noted that following a call in February 2021 D was going 
to provide an ownership structure with evidence and meet the identification and verification 
requirements. Although D sent an email on 23 February 2021 HSBC didnt consider this met 
the requirements and closed the review. For reasons which are unclear the account wasnt 
closed until 22 May 2021. D says that as it hadnt heard back from HSBC it believed the 
review to be complete and a banner on online banking about the review had disappeared.
HSBC sent a cheque for the account balance to D on 10 June 2021. D explained that it was 
able to open a replacement account at HSBC on 16 August 2021 and bank the cheque. It 
wants to be compensated for being deprived of access to its money until then.
My assessment
I need to balance a number of factors in coming to my assessment. On one hand D was 
given an extended period of time to meet the requirements. Based on what HSBC says the 
first submission wasnt made until 1 December 2020. And HSBC had made clear that not 
meeting the requirements would result in the account being closed. The next submission 
didnt come until 1 February 2021. And HSBC did extend the deadline. The issue 
surrounding the ownership of D and the need for verification did seem to have been 
identified in December 2020. Having looked at Ds email of 23 February 2021, I dont see 
that this addressed that.
On the other hand, D did ask HSBC whether this email had met the requirement and didnt 
get a response. It seems HSBC had taken the view that D had already had sufficient time to 
complete the response and wasnt minded to extend the deadline again. D didnt hear back 
either way and so the position was at best unclear. The account didnt close on 6 March 
2021 and then not for a further two months. That in itself could have allowed D time to 
address the requirements although I note the time taken to open a replacement account and 
so by inference to satisfy the information needs of HSBC. I take into account that D only 
found out that the account was actually closed because a creditor couldnt pay in money.
I dont find that HSBC ought to have otherwise than issued any final cheque payment to D. 
So, I dont think it should compensate it for being deprived of the money. And I note D was 
reasonably able to arrange some mitigating actions for what happened. But not to open an 
account elsewhere. However, while D had I consider had adequate time to meet the 
safeguard requirements it was caused inconvenience by the way HSBC dealt with the 
account closure. I agree with our investigator that on balance £300 is a fair and reasonable 
resolution for that. I appreciate that the director of D will remain disappointed with this 
outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require HSBC Bank UK Plc to pay D £300 
and as it has now offered to do.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman