DRN-1709732
 
The complaint
Mr A says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream), irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr A says he couldnt make ends meet, was using other short-term credit providers 
and was in a considerable amount of debt.
What happened
This complaint is about five short-term loans Lending Stream provided to Mr A between 
December 2017 and April 2018. Mr As borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 22/12/2017 07/01/2018 6 £150.00
2 07/01/2018 31/01/2018 6 £500.00
3 25/01/2018 18/02/2018 6 £650.00
4 18/02/2018 outstanding 6 £400.00
5 13/04/2018 outstanding 6 £700.00
 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in full as it was clear from the information Lending 
Stream had about Mr As financial circumstances that he was having problems managing his 
finances. Mr A had seven accounts in default already and one default was six months 
previous to him taking loan one. Our adjudicator also said any adverse information about the 
loans should be removed from Mr As credit file but the outstanding loans themselves did not 
have to be removed until they had been repaid. 
Lending Stream agreed with the adjudicators recommendation. But it said Mr A still owed 
£1,032 for loans four and five. So, the redress it calculated would be offset against the 
outstanding balanced and Mr A would still owe £802.13.
Mr A accepted the offer but wasnt happy that Lending Stream wanted to arrange a 
repayment plan with him, and that the debt would have to be repaid within 24 months. Mr A 
said he couldnt afford this, and it wasnt in-line with his debt management plan. He also said 
he shouldnt have to repay the outstanding balance as the lending shouldnt have been given 
to him at all. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
As Lending Stream has already offered to settle the complaint  and in-line with what we 
would expect it to do  I dont need to make a finding on whether the loans should have 
been granted. So, in this decision Ill be considering whether the offer Lending Stream has 
made in order to settle the complaint is fair and reasonable. 
But, for completeness, I confirm I agree that loans one to five should be upheld. 
It seems that Mr A still has outstanding balances on loans four and five and the total amount 
of principal outstanding is £1,032. Lending Streams offer totalled £229.87 so that amount 
would be offset against the outstanding principal leaving £802.13 still payable. Mr A has said 
he doesnt think he should have to repay this as the lending shouldnt have been given. I can 
appreciate why Mr A feels as if he shouldnt repay the principal sum, but that isnt the 
position this service takes. Ive explained below how we look into these types of cases. 
When a business has made an error  either because it accepts one has been made or we 
decide something has gone wrong  the starting point, for this service, is that a consumer 
should be put back into the position they would have been in had an error not been made. 
However, that is not always possible especially in cases that involve lending money. 
In cases of irresponsible lending, such as this, this service has to acknowledge that the 
consumer has received a sum of money and has had the benefit of it. This is why in such 
cases we ask the lender to refund any extra that has been repaid by a consumer, so for 
example interest and charges. We also direct an additional interest payment to the 
consumer to reflect the loss of use of the funds. This has the effect of providing the 
consumer with an interest free loan. By doing this, in our view, a fair outcome is reached. 
Ive thought about what Mr A has told us and I do have sympathy for his position. I can 
understand why he wants the outstanding balance written off, and his liability for the lending 
to be ended. But, in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think its reasonable to ask 
Lending Stream to do that. I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, but Ill explain 
why Ive reached it.
Mr A had use of the funds and I dont think it would be fair, in this case, to ask Lending 
Stream to write off this balance. Mr A, as Ive said, has used these funds and Lending 
Stream is entitled to recover what was lent  which is what it is proposing to do. 
Mr A has said that the suggested repayment plan over a maximum period of 24 months may 
not be affordable for him and as a consequence would reflect badly on his credit report. He 
also thinks the repayment plan may not be in-line with his debt management plan. 
I cant say whether this repayment term is unreasonable or not as part of this complaint. But 
when trying to recover the outstanding principal amount we do expect Lending Stream to be 
fair and reasonable and to take into account Mr As financial situation. For example, this 
could include taking into consideration Mr As income and expenditure, and his debt 
management plan, to make sure the repayment plan it is proposing is affordable for Mr A. 
Lending Stream has said that it will remove any adverse information about the lending from 
Mr As credit file but would continue to report information about the outstanding loans  that a repayment plan was in place or subsequent missed repayments as examples. Lending 
Stream has an obligation to accurately report Mr As outstanding debt to the credit reference 
agencies. So, this part of the compensation isnt unreasonable.
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr A, but I want to assure him 
that Ive listened to his concerns, but on this occasion, I think the offer made by Lending 
Stream to resolve the complaint is fair and reasonable. 
Finally, what I would add is that Lending Stream and Mr A ought to try and work together to 
repay the principal amount outstanding, but Id remind Lending Stream of its obligation to 
treat Mr A fairly when doing so.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Lending Streams offer of redress is fair. I 
wont be asking it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman