DRN-2180985
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Clydesdale Bank plc (Clydesdale) refused to process a chargeback on 
her behalf.
What happened
Mrs R says she purchased a microwave, but this developed faults and was returned to the 
merchant. It took several months for the item to be repaired and when it was returned to her 
it was damaged. Mrs R asked Clydesdale to process a chargeback but Clydesdale refused 
as they said they couldnt make a chargeback as it was more than 120 days from the 
purchase date. Mrs Rs son works in the banking industry and questioned Clydesdale on this 
on his mothers behalf and said under the chargeback rules his mother had 540 days to raise 
a chargeback request.  
Clydesdale in their final response letter says  they are unable to raise a chargeback to a 
third-party payment platform but did accept that Mrs R was given some misleading 
information about how she might make a complaint and apologised for this.
Mrs R wasnt happy with Clydesdales response saying the chargeback could have been 
actioned and Clydesdale had 540 days in which to process this. Mrs R then referred the 
matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint .She 
felt that Clydesdale had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the chargeback 
scheme and the 540 days rule wasnt an option in this instance. The investigator says that 
Clydesdale wouldnt have been able to process the chargeback as it was outside the 120-
day rule and they had no obligation to process a chargeback if they felt it wouldnt be 
successful, as the scheme is voluntary.
Mrs R wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
When looking at this complaint I have considered if Clydesdale acted fairly when refusing to 
initiate the chargeback.  
I can understand that it would have been frustrating for Mrs R to have her goods returned 
damaged after its repair and not being able to obtain a refund from the seller. Mrs Rs son, 
who has dealt with this complaint on her behalf, says Clydesdale could have initiated the 
chargeback either within 120 days of the expiry of the guarantee or within 540 days from the 
purchase. 
I have considered the points raised by Mrs Rs son and Clydesdales response, when they 
say it couldnt raise a chargeback against a third-party platform.
Taking Clydesdales point regarding the chargeback to a third-party platform, I dont think 
what they say here is correct, however, in the original phone call with Mrs R the reason 
given for not initiating the chargeback was because it was outside the 120 days from the 
purchase date.  Like the investigator I feel that Clydesdale may have confused the 
transaction with that of a Section 75 claim. What is important here is that I am satisfied they 
were entitled to refuse to initiate the chargeback as this needed to be within 120 days from 
the purchase, and in this case it wasnt. 
Mrs Rs son believes that the 120 days should have been from the date of the expiry of the 
guarantee or 540 days from the purchase and provided an excerpt from the Mastercard rules 
to support his argument. While Mrs Rs son may not agree, I have considered this, but I am 
satisfied that the 540 days rule relates to services and not faulty goods, that is to say the 
540-day rule refers to purchases for things like airline/concert tickets or other services, as an 
example. 
Furthermore, I am satisfied, having looked at the scheme rules, the 120 days starts from the 
date of the purchase of the goods and not the expiry of the guarantee as Mrs Rs son 
believes.
What is also important to bear in mind here is that chargebacks are a voluntary scheme, run 
in this case by Mastercard. While we would expect banks, like Clydesdale, to attempt to 
make a chargeback if they felt it would be successful, it is just that, a voluntary arrangement.  
Clydesdale felt in this case the chargeback wouldnt have been successful for the reasons 
they initially gave when Mrs R first contacted them  - that the claim was more than 120 days 
from the purchase date of the goods.
Although I can see that Clydesdale gave some misleading information regarding the 
chargeback arrangements regarding third party platforms in their final response letter, it 
wouldnt alter the fact that even if they went down this route, it would still have been outside 
the 120-day rule referred to before. In the circumstances, considering all of the above, I am 
satisfied that Clydesdale had good reason not to have initiated the chargeback here. I also 
support the investigators view the mistake made by Clydesdale, mentioned above, in itself 
wouldnt warrant the need for a compensation payment. 
I know that Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision, but I will not be asking anymore of 
Clydesdale.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman