DRN-4184480
The complaint
Mr M complains about how long it took State Bank Of India (UK) Limited (SBI) to respond 
to his Buy To Let (BTL) mortgage application with an offer. He complains both about the 
delays SBI caused and the lack of information while his application was being processed.
What happened
Mr M applied for a BTL mortgage with SBI through a broker, on 22 June 2022. He was sent 
an email, directly to him rather than via his broker, to sign the application. Mr M said neither 
he nor his broker had ever seen this approach before, of contacting the client directly rather 
than going through the broker, but he accepted that he didnt respond to this email right 
away. He didnt return the signed form until 13 July. But he said SBI then delayed 
unreasonably in generating his offer. 
Mr Ms broker was initially told that there was a 20 day backlog for initial underwriting. The 
broker was then told this had escalated to 42 days. But Mr M said it was 49 days after the 
application was signed, that SBI instructed a valuation, on 31 August. The valuers chosen 
couldnt complete the valuation until 26 September. 
SBI got the valuation back on 26 September. On 19 October, a task appeared on the broker 
portal, asking Mr Ms broker to provide more information. Mr Ms broker said that she didnt 
know what she was being asked for, and although she asked her liaison contact at SBI, its 
area business manager (ABM) he didnt know either. Mr Ms broker said she uploaded a 
business plan, which might have been what was wanted, but she pointed out that this had 
already been accepted by SBI several months earlier, on 27 June. 
After this, nothing happened for some time. By 14 November, the offer still hadnt been 
received, and although the broker was frequently in contact with SBIs ABM, he couldnt say 
what the problem was either. 
Mr M said hed applied to remortgage four months before his old mortgage deal was due to 
end. But due to the time taken to process this application by SBI, hed ended up paying the 
standard variable rate (SVR) with his old lender. 
On 14 November, with no offer letter received, Mr Ms broker complained on his behalf. On 
17 November, a response was received, and Mr Ms offer appears to have been issued on 
the same day. 
SBI said it doesnt have a target time for responding to BTL mortgage applications. It said it 
has its own processes and checks, so it felt it couldnt be compared to other lenders. It said it 
wouldnt be fair for SBI to have prioritised Mr Ms case. 
SBI did apologise for the delays, which it said were just down to a high volume of 
applications. But it said its ABM had been in regular contact with Mr Mrs broker throughout 
this period. SBI said it wouldnt pay any of the extra costs Mr M had incurred, it felt it wasnt 
liable for those. 
When this complaint came to our service, SBI said Mr M did now have his offer. It repeated 
that the delay was just due to the volume of work the bank received, and said Mr Ms broker 
could be expected to be aware of the market conditions at the time. SBI said Mr Ms broker 
was also made aware directly of the issues at SBI, and her representations to our service 
showed this. It also wanted to highlight the initial delay Mr M caused by not responding to its 
email. 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. She said that, overall, the 
application took five months, which is longer than she would expect for this sort of 
application. She said that SBI had told Mr Ms broker about significant delays, but the time 
taken for this application to reach offer stage was longer than this. She also thought SBI 
could have been clearer with Mr M or his broker about the reasons for the delays. 
Our investigator didnt think SBI had to pay the additional costs Mr M incurred when he went 
onto his old lenders SVR. She said he could have sourced a different mortgage elsewhere. 
But she said SBI should pay Mr M £200 in acknowledgment of the time the application took 
and due to the lack of specific updates.
SBI said it wanted to see formal guidance from our service on how long underwriting 
commercial mortgages should take. And it wanted to know why it should have prioritised Mr 
Ms mortgage over other customers. It pointed out that it had honoured the rate Mr M had 
applied for. It said his business costs (as this was a commercial mortgage) were not the 
responsibility of SBI. SBI felt that our investigator had ignored market conditions at the time, 
and the compensation suggested was arbitrary and unfair. It said it shouldnt be penalised 
for delays that it kept Mr M informed about, just because he chose not to exercise his right to 
go elsewhere. 
Mr M accepted the decision. His broker replied on his behalf, saying that this was lending to 
Mr M personally, not to a business. The broker said she thought the compensation amount 
should be higher, but she told us Mr M just wanted to bring things to a close. 
Our investigator replied to SBI to say that there isnt specific guidance on what constitutes 
excessive delay. Shed made a judgement based on normal industry practice and what is 
fair and reasonable for a consumer to expect when making an application. Our investigator 
also stressed that Mr M had taken the mortgage out in his sole name, and our service does 
award compensation payments to sole traders. 
SBI continued to object. It said our service wasnt qualified to tell a business how long it 
should take to underwrite a mortgage. And it said that the broker was wholly aware that SBI 
was experiencing delays. SBI repeated that Mr M could have gone elsewhere at any point 
and therefore mitigated any delay himself, if the matter was that pressing.
SBI said our investigator had suggested it should pay £200 for the time the application took 
and due to the lack of specific updates. It wanted to know what lack of specific updates she 
was referring to. 
SBI remained very unhappy that it was being asked to pay compensation in this case. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I think this application divides into two  what happened before the valuation, and what 
happened after.
Before the valuation, when the application was submitted to SBI, Mr Ms broker does appear 
to have been aware that SBI was experiencing delays, taking around 20 days to get to initial 
underwriting stage. Shortly after this, she was told that these delays had escalated, and it 
was now taking up to 42 days for an application to get to the initial underwriting stage. 
Mr M is an experienced landlord, who owns other properties. He had started this mortgage 
application in good time, but was then warned about considerable delays, which apparently 
increased sharply not long after his application was made. 
I think its reasonable to assume that Mr M would have been aware of the market turmoil at 
the time when he was advised by his broker of the increasing delays with SBI. That could be 
expected to increase mortgage processing times generally, and also times for property 
valuations to be obtained. So I think its reasonable to assume that Mr M made an informed 
decision to continue his application with SBI at this stage, although he may no longer have 
been confident that his new mortgage offer could be obtained from SBI before he went onto 
his old lenders SVR. 
For those reasons, I dont think SBI has to cover the additional costs that Mr M incurred, 
when he went onto his old lenders SVR, before moving his mortgage to SBI. 
The valuation was completed and promptly returned, so it was available to SBI by 26 
August. 
After the valuation, email exchanges between the broker and SBIs ABM suggest to me that 
Mr Ms application appears to have stalled somewhat. And although SBI has challenged our 
investigators assessment that there was a lack of specific updates at this point, I think her 
conclusion is consistent with the email exchanges Ive read between Mr Ms broker and 
SBIs ABM. I do think that the flow of information to Mr Ms broker, after the property 
valuation was done, appears to have been particularly poor. 
SBI has told us that it was experiencing extreme work pressures, and it said it had previously 
updated its email straplines, to make sure that these advised of increasing delays. It also 
said that after 15 August 2022, shortly before the valuation was completed, this text was 
amended again to remove any promises about response times, and instead to ask readers 
to contact the bank for the anticipated wait times. 
I should note firstly that these lines dont appear to have been part of the communications 
between Mr Mrs broker and SBIs ABM. And I also note that when Mr Ms broker did ask for 
updates, she was told that the ABM simply couldnt give her the information she wanted. 
Between 26 August and 17 November, when the offer was apparently received by Mr M, 
there were emails between the broker and the ABM, in which she requested updates, and 
the ABM wasnt able to share the cause of the delay. Some further questions were asked, 
and answered, on 20 October. The broker said this was information that SBI had already. 
And a document was then uploaded again, on 26 October. Again, the broker said this was 
information SBI already had, and the ABM appears to have accepted that.
So Mr M and his broker experienced a delay of a little under three months, between the 
completion of the valuation on the property he wanted to remortgage and the issue of an offer. Although SBIs ABM does appear to have been seeking to obtain answers for Mr M, 
there appears to me to have been little to no explanation of this delay, or information on how 
much longer the wait might be, provided by SBI during this time. There was also no 
explanation of why information which the broker said had already been supplied, was 
requested again. 
SBI has said that Mr M could simply have taken his business elsewhere at any point. But I 
would expect that, by this time, the mortgage rates available to him elsewhere would be 
significantly less advantageous than the rate hed first applied for with SBI some months 
earlier. So I dont think Mr M was, at this point, obliged to seek to mitigate his losses by 
remortgaging elsewhere. Thats because I think this action would have been likely to have 
increased, rather than mitigated, any such loses.
Having considered carefully the representations from both sides, and placing these in the 
context of the mortgage market at the time, I have reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator, that SBI provided Mr M with poor service in this case. Thats not solely because 
it took nearly three months to provide him with a mortgage offer, after an apparently 
satisfactory valuation was received, but also because, despite what appears to be the best 
efforts of its ABM, it doesnt appear to have been able to give him any meaningful updates 
on progress during this time.
In the circumstances of this case, I think that a payment of £200 would provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. So thats what Ill ask SBI to pay now.
My final decision
My final decision is that State Bank Of India (UK) Limited must pay Mr M £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman