DRN-3633233
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with how Vitality Health Limited dealt with a claim made under her private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B has explained that she needed to have a medical procedure, to investigate problems 
she was having with a hiatus hernia. 
The medical procedure was to go ahead on 4 February 2022. Mrs B has said that the day 
before this was due to go ahead, she received a call from the medical facility that would be 
carrying out the investigation. It told her that Vitality hadnt provided it with an authorisation 
code for the procedure  which was needed to ensure the cost of it was covered by the 
insurance policy. 
Mrs B has explained this caused concern to her. She had already undertaken preparation 
needed for the procedure. And she was concerned about her health. So, she decided to go 
ahead with the investigation anyway  paying for it out of her savings. Mrs B would then 
claim for the cost of it back from Vitality, so the progression of her procedure wasnt delayed. 
Mrs B paid £1,792  using her savings to do so.
Following this, Mrs B said Vitality told her the problem had been with her GP. It hadnt 
provided the correct information, for Vitality to authorise the procedure. The information the 
GP had submitted made no mention of a hiatus hernia at all. So, Mrs B contacted her GP, 
and asked it to resubmit the necessary forms to Vitality, with the correct information. Which it 
did.
Mrs B has explained that following this she experienced delays from Vitality. Mrs B said she 
submitted her invoice to Vitality. It paid for some consultation fees. But didnt reimburse her 
the £1,792 for the procedure. Mrs B said she kept having to chase reimbursement of this  
causing her distress and inconvenience, until she finally received a cheque for the 
procedure, on 2 June 2022. 
Mrs B was unhappy with this delay. Prior to receiving the above payment for £1,792, she 
raised a complaint with Vitality about the time it was taking to provide her with a 
reimbursement. 
Vitality provided its final response on the matter in August 2022. It acknowledged there had 
been some avoidable delays in reimbursing Mrs B. It offered her a total of £75 compensation 
in relation to this. With £23.17 of this being to recognise that Mrs B would have lost out on 
interest, when using her savings to pay for the procedure.
Mrs B didnt feel the above offer was a fair and reasonable offer, on reflection of the 
experience shed had. She highlighted the delay in obtaining the reimbursement she was 
due, as well as the time she had to take in phoning and emailing Vitality, chasing the matter.
Our investigator considered this complaint and felt the £75 offered to Mrs B was fair. They 
agreed there had been delays in Mrs B receiving the £1,792 back from Vitality. Our 
investigator said some of this delay was unavoidable. Such as the delay from Mrs Bs GP. 
And they said there was some time reasonably taken to assess the claim. But our 
investigator agreed there were times when the claim could have been moved forward by 
Vitality  and wasnt. But our investigator felt the £75 offered was reasonable compensation 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience Mrs B had experienced, and any interest she 
may have missed out on, from her savings.
Mrs B didnt agree. She provided a letter from a friend who was representing her with 
Vitality, explaining the situation and the impact on Mrs B. And she reiterated her concerns 
around the time Vitality took to deal with things.
Because Mrs B didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the £75 offered to Mrs B is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So, I require Vitality to pay Mrs B that. 
I appreciate Mrs B is likely to be disappointed with this. Its clear she feels strongly about the 
matter. Id like to reassure her, and Vitality, that I did consider everything provided to me, 
when coming to my decision. But, when explaining my decision, Ive only commented on 
what I consider necessary to explain my reasoning. Which is detailed below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Vitality 
acted in line with these requirements, in the time to took to provide Mrs B with the settlement 
of £1,792. 
Having considered this, I do think there were times when Vitality could have progressed 
Mrs Bs claim more efficiently or dealt with the situation at hand better. For example, I can 
see that Mrs B provided information to Vitality in early March 2022. And then on 24 March 
2022, Vitality received the information it needed from Mrs Bs GP, to move the matter 
forward. However, no further action was taken to authorise the claim, until this was done on 
4 August 2022. Vitality has noted that authorising a claim such as this, should usually take 
between three and five days. Which doesnt seem unreasonable, given the need to review 
documentation and the policy terms. But it took Vitality double this time, in Mrs Bs case. So, 
its clear things could have been moved more efficiently here.
Following the claim being authorised, I can see there was also a delay in processing Mrs Bs 
invoice for the £1,792. And Vitality has accepted this too. It has said the invoice was sent to 
one of its representatives, who then didnt take the next step to process this. Looking at the 
claim notes Vitality hold, I can see this also was the case. 
Vitality has accepted the above delays. And it has now offered £75 compensation to Mrs B, 
for the trouble and upset this delay caused to her. So, Ive needed to consider whether this 
offer is fair and reasonable. And, having thought about this, Im satisfied it is.
Its important to note that this services role isnt to punish a business. So, when thinking 
about compensation, I instead needed to consider the impact the situation had on Mrs B. 
And whether the offer made to her is a fair figure to recognise this impact.Mrs B had decided to pay for the procedure up-front, because of delays her doctor caused in 
moving the matter forward. Vitality isnt accountable for that. And Mrs B took the funds out of 
savings. So, Im satisfied that financially, her day to day comfort wasnt impacted. But from 
reviewing call notes and copies of emails, its clear that Vitalitys delay in reimbursing Mrs B 
cause some inconvenience. She had to chase the situation. And was clearly worried about 
the lack of Vitalitys progress. I can understand why this was inconvenient and upsetting. But 
I do think the compensation offered fairly recognises the frustration this caused. And so, I 
dont require Vitality to pay further compensation.
In addition to this, the compensation does also take into account that Mrs B could have 
placed the funds back into her savings earlier, if Vitality had processed a refund quicker, and 
therefore earned interest on this. It provides £23.17 in this regard. I think its fair for Vitality to 
have considered this, given the funds could have been back in Mrs Bs account sooner. 
£23.17 is likely to exceed what Mrs B would have earned in interest on these funds. So, Im 
satisfied the payment in this regard is fair.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I require Vitality Health Limited to pay Mrs B £75 if 
it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman