DRN-1599322
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Aldermore Bank Plc declined his mortgage application. To settle the 
complaint Mr C wants the information about this to be removed from his credit file.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr C enquired about remortgaging a buy-to-let (BTL) property through 
Aldermore in order to pay off the existing mortgage and raise additional funds for home 
improvements. The property was being rented out for £1,000 per month. A Decision in 
Principle (DIP) was issued and on 1 August 2019 Mr C made a formal mortgage application. 
After reviewing the application, Aldermore decided not to issue a mortgage offer. 
The underwriters had noted that the tenant of the property had the same surname as Mr C, 
which suggested the property might be rented to a family member. The underwriters also 
noted that Mr C was receiving rent of £500 from another person with the same surname as 
Mr C (with a different initial to both Mr C and to the tenant of the property Mr C wanted to 
remortgage to Aldermore.)  In an email to Mr C dated 21 August 2019 the mortgage adviser 
asked Mr C to clarify this, as he (the adviser) had thought there was only one tenant, paying 
£1,000 per month. Mr C did not respond to this point.
The mortgage adviser was unable to persuade the underwriters to change the decision to 
decline the application. 
Mr C complained to Aldermore. He said that the application was declined because his tenant 
has the same surname as him, which was unfair. Mr C was unhappy that the declined 
application showed on his credit file, and he wanted this removed.
Aldermore didnt uphold the complaint and in its final response said that the issue of the 
tenants surname was only one of several factors that had been taken into account. Its 
underwriters had found too many inconsistencies to approve the application. 
Mr C was unhappy at Aldermores response to his complaint so it was brought to us, where 
an investigator looked at what had happened. After reviewing the complaint, he didnt think it 
should be upheld. The investigator noted not just that the tenant had the same surname as 
Mr C, but that Aldermore had identified other inconsistencies in the application. In the 
circumstances, the investigator was satisfied Aldermore had acted reasonably when it 
declined the application.
Mr C challenged the investigators findings, so he requested further information from 
Aldermore. Again, after reviewing this, he was satisfied Aldermore was entitled to decline the 
application.
Dissatisfied with the investigators findings, Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Hes unhappy with the investigators outcome and also says that Aldermore has 
breached the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read everything Mr C and Aldermore 
have sent us, and listened to all the call recordings.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ill begin by explaining what the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is and my remit as an ombudsman. 
Im aware Mr C thinks our case handler has shown bias towards Aldermore. Were required 
to assess all of the evidence from all the parties. Insofar as he didnt agree with Mr Cs view 
of the complaint, that wasnt of itself indicative of bias, however unwelcome Mr C found his 
conclusions.
Mr C has also said that an ombudsman should not review his case until his queries about 
the GDPR have been addressed and that we will have to wait until this has been done. That 
was eight months ago and no further information has been submitted by Mr C. In any event, 
as an independent service, we dont take instructions either from consumers or the 
businesses theyre complaining about on how to investigate complaints; if we were to do so, 
it would compromise our independence and impartiality. Im satisfied I have all relevant 
evidence to enable me to review the complaint.
I appreciate Mr C believes Aldermore has treated him unfairly. His submissions highlight all 
the issues hes unhappy about. But this complaint is simpler than its been presented: the 
issue is about the exercise by Aldermore of its commercial judgment when deciding whether 
or not to offer a mortgage to Mr C. 
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgment my role is to 
decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute 
my own judgement for that of Aldermore. In other words, I have to decide if Aldermore took 
into account all relevant factors and gave proper consideration to them before reaching its 
decision. It is only if I thought no lender could reasonably have made the decisions 
Aldermore made in this case that there would be any basis for intervention on my part.
Aldermore is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Aldermore makes in 
respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular lending 
assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary 
matters for Aldermores own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with. 
Additionally in deciding whether to lend to Mr C, Aldermore is entitled to take account of its 
own interests when making such decisions. It is not obliged to take account only of the 
interests of the borrower.
Having looked at the way in which Aldermore considered the application, Im satisfied that it 
took into account all relevant factors before declining the mortgage application. The DIP is 
clear that it isnt an offer to lend and that a full application is required. The application was 
first assessed by a mortgage adviser and then by Aldermores underwriters.  I note an initial 
query about a previous address was clarified, but there were other queries which arose 
which Mr C wasnt able to answer to Aldermores satisfaction.
Aldermore has provided documentation about its lending criteria and about its consideration 
of the application by the underwriters. Im entitled to treat this as confidential, because it is 
commercially sensitive. But after considering this information, Im satisfied that Aldermore reached its lending decision fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors, including (but 
not limited to) affordability, exposure to risk, and Mr Cs specific circumstances.
Given this, Im satisfied that Aldermore gave fair consideration to this application and so 
legitimately exercised its commercial judgement when deciding the terms upon which it 
would lend to Mr C. This means that there is no basis upon which I can find that Aldermore 
has treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably in its decision to decline the application.
As far as a breach of GDPR is concerned, this falls outside the remit of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and I agree with the investigator that Mr C will need to raise this with 
the Office of the Information Commissioner.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr C wanted. I understand that he was hopeful that, after 
receiving a DIP, his mortgage application would go smoothly and quickly. But after giving 
careful consideration to everything Mr C and Aldermore have said, I dont think Aldermore 
has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman