DRN-4061270
The complaint
Mrs C complains IG Markets Limited (IG) took too long to set up her ISA and too long to 
transfer her ISA out. 
Mrs C brings her complaint with Mr C as her representative but for simplicity Ive referred 
below to Mrs C when referring to things said or done by her or by Mr C on her behalf.
What happened
On 9 January 2021 Mrs C posted application forms to IG. These included forms for an ISA 
for Mrs C and a request to transfer an existing cash ISA into the new ISA. Mrs C says her 
existing cash ISA was available for transfer from 14 January (her complaint letter to IG said 
11 January).
On 25 January 2021 she complained to IG about a lack of progress with her ISA application. 
On 28 January by letter the cash ISA provider told Mrs C it had sent her funds to IG. IG says 
it received the cheque on 5 February. On 5 February Mrs C complained formally that no 
funds had been transferred into her ISA  and that investment opportunities had been lost. 
The cash wasnt credited to her ISA until 25 February, three weeks after IG got the cash and 
a month and a half after the earliest date Mrs C has said was possible for the transfer.
On 20 April 2021 IG accepted fault for delaying crediting the cash to Mrs Cs ISA. It offered 
her £300 - but this was also for failings relating to a joint account that wasnt set up and for 
the overall level of service received by Mrs C from IG over the period for all her applications.
On 8 June 2021 IG told Mrs C it would close her accounts after 90 days (on 6 September) 
and in the meantime she would not be able to purchase new stock. Its reasons for taking this 
action and her complaint about it are the subject of a separate complaint.
Mrs C contacted us about her issues, including the ISA transfer in, on 24 June 2021.
Mrs C didnt want to close her ISA account but on 8 August 2021 Mrs C told IG she had 
contacted another provider and initiated a transfer out. She has told us this process started 
on 6 August.
Mrs C contacted IG on its online chat service. She has printed the exchange for us which 
she says took place on 24 August 2021. In the chat IG said Mrs Cs cash would follow her 
stocks and that 26 August was the settlement day and answered yes to the question The 
cash will be transferred tomorrow? Mrs C says this meant the cash would be transferred or 
arrive on 25 or 26 August. The cash didnt arrive on either of these dates.
Mrs C said during the chat: I cannot trade within my ISA without it (her cash), but she didnt 
mention any specific trades.
On 31 August 2021 Mrs C complained to IG about the transfer out. What she said included 
that the money was needed to trade within her ISA but could not be used due to IGs failure 
to complete the transfer. She said: Once again, trading opportunities are being lost as a 
result of continued poor service. The message didnt say that there was any particular trade 
Mrs C had missed or was missing out on or any particular share she wanted to buy.
Mrs C also copied us in that morning. What she said included that IG had confirmed a date 
to transfer her cash but, once again, I.G. failed to meet their confirmed deadlines thereby 
denying us access to our cash which is required to secure any trading opportunities. Mrs C 
referred to any opportunities but didnt specify a particular one. Later that morning IG sent 
Mrs C an email to say the transfer was complete. The email also said it was sorry to see her 
go and she should get in touch if she wished to return, which appears to have been a 
standard wording  and was not appropriate on this occasion.
Mrs C contacted us about this message, pointing out that although it said the transfer was 
complete this was completely wrong as IG have retained and failed to transfer the £6000 
for her account. She did not mention a particular planned share purchase but did refer to 
being distressed by the nature of the poor service.
On 1 September 2021 Mrs C contacted IG saying that part of her complaint had been that 
the delay of the funds was causing lost trading opportunities and that one of two shares 
she held in her ISA was a share she had intended to buy and it had risen by 24% the day 
before and was up 30% that day. IG had sent the funds on 31 August, according to a 
statement dated 1 September. This refers to payment by cheque but the funds were sent 
electronically. Mrs C complained that payment by cheque was disgracefully prolonging her 
wait for her funds. She copied us in on this email saying: this causes yet a further delay in 
access to [my] funds that were required for further share purchase where there have been 
significant rises of 24% and 30% in the last two days.
Mrs C says the cash became available to her on 3 September 2021, having been transferred 
by IG on 2 September. She used virtually all the cash on 3 September to buy shares in the 
company to which she had referred in her 1 September email. On 9 September she told us 
the delay in the cash had contributed to significant losses.
From calculations provided by Mrs C on 9 September 2021, the shares had risen in value by 
almost 90% when she bought them, compared to the lowest price on 26 August. Mrs C 
calculates that at the middle price for 26 August her funds wouldve bought over 16,000 
more shares than they did. On 9 September 2021 she told IG these extra shares wouldve 
been worth more than £5800 at that point  with the potential for this to increase. 
Mrs C told us the share traded between 17.50p and 15.26p on 26 August 2021 and between 
30p and 24p on 3 September. The highs and lows on other days around that time were:
23 August: 16.00p and 17.24p
24 August: 16.00p and 17.50p
25 August: 15.90p and 17.00p
26 August: 15.26p and 17.50p
27 August: 14.50p and 16.00p
31 August: 14.13p and 20.00p
1 September: 19.00p and 25.50p
2 September: 22.30p and 25.65p
3 September: 24p and 30p
The share closed at 18.50p on 31 August, so that day was the start of a big move up. But 
this wasnt apparent when it opened that day at 15.38p, which is the morning when Mrs C 
emailed IG about the delay in the cash. 
IGs complaint response on 19 October 2021 in brief said cash was transferred after stock 
and the stock settled with the new provider on 27 August with the cash following two business days later on 31 August.
Mrs C replied on 24 October 2021, saying that as the transfer was at IGs instigation IG
should have acted with the upmost care to ensure it wasnt delayed and didnt prejudice her
ability to trade, and pointing out her instruction of 6 August to the new provider had been
acknowledged by IG on 10 August and the cash arrived only on 2 September. She didnt
consider these timescales to be appropriate. She also referred back to the delays 
experienced when transferring the account into IG originally.
IG replied saying amongst other things that transfers can take three to five weeks as a 
minimum and saying the transfer out timescale was appropriate. IG said price moves during 
a transfer werent unusual and that Mrs C wasnt prevented from selling or buying shares 
during the transfer process to mitigate this. But IG had in fact told Mrs C she couldnt open 
positions, only close them, after it had taken the decision to close her account. 
Mrs C replied, in brief summary referring back to what the chat had said about timescales 
and pointing out that IG had stopped her trading with the funds in her ISA and that she had 
bought the shares as soon as she had the cash.
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought - in summary:
The ISA transfer in was requested on 9 January 2021. Funds received by IG on 
5 February mightve been expected to appear on Mrs Cs account sooner than 
25 February. Redress was due for the inconvenience associated with this delay. That 
said, the redress IG had already offered was fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its errors had caused Mrs C, including for this ISA delay.
Mrs Cs ISA transfer from IG was completed in time, bearing in mind the 30-day time limit 
in government guidelines. The cash was transferred on 31 August 2021 after the stocks 
were settled on 27 August.
IG didnt reply with anything new. Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators view and made a
number of further points. These included, in brief summary:
A significant part of her overall complaint hadnt been considered or understood  
namely the time taken for her ISA transfer out, which our investigator had said was three 
days. The transfer took around 19 days for the shares and 27 for the cash. She had 
chased the cash and on the chat confirmed a transfer date for it which IG unsurprisingly 
failed to meet. It wasnt until 2 September 2021 that the cash arrived.
The delay of the ISA cash led to serious consequences. It stopped her buying a stock 
that rose by 24% and then 30% and shed provided a breakdown of this. This loss 
resulted entirely from IGs failure to transfer cash after it instructed her to transfer her 
account. It is unreasonable for her as a pensioner to bear the costs of IGs inefficiency 
and failure to act with due diligence.
Why could IG not have transferred her free cash immediately? It takes cash immediately. 
There is no reason to take 27 days to transfer free cash from a suspended account. It 
shouldnt be overlooked that the transfer was forced on her by IG and yet it still failed in 
its duty of care. 
To fully understand her position requires an understanding of the speed at which share 
prices fluctuate. She would expect such understanding to be applied in considering her 
complaint.IG had acknowledged its continual poor service, but we and IG had both ignored the 
prime cause of her quantifiable and serious loss - and we had defended IG with factually 
incorrect statements about a 3 day transfer.
Stockbrokers have a duty to act swiftly on instructions. This is the very least she was 
entitled to expect from IG given its duty of care and the charges it makes. The very 
nature of stock market trading is that it is of utmost importance that time is of the 
essence in every transaction.
Weight should be given to how a business should work rather than how they currently 
work and the shabby standards currently adopted by profit driven companies.
When her account was opened, the process took approximately eight weeks. These 
timelines arent appropriate for share and cash transactions where huge variations can 
take place in minutes. IG breached its duty of care and this isnt an isolated incident. IGs 
response ignored the significant repercussions.
She had sent details of how a similar cash transfer  of a cash ISA - was dealt with much 
more quickly by another firm. Those showed funds confirmed as sent on 15 March after 
a 6 March request, taking just 9 days. Her similar transfer to IG took 47 days  a stark 
contrast which justifies her complaint.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it was passed to me for a decision. I wrote 
to the parties on 10 February 2023 explaining that my provisional conclusions were broadly 
similar to those of our investigator. I thought IG did fall short in certain respects - and it had 
accepted this at least in part. But I thought the modest offers IG had made - of which £150 
appeared to me to be connected to this ISA complaint - meant it had done enough already 
for the transactions on Mrs Cs ISA. I reached this view on the basis that I said I didnt think 
there were grounds to award redress for specific lost investment opportunities.
IG didnt have anything more to add. Mrs C rejected my provisional outcome. She provided a 
detailed response and her points included, in brief summary:
When IG told her to close her accounts, she didnt initiate a transfer initially because she 
was looking to have her accounts reinstated. The IG software for trading is particularly 
good and intuitive and she hoped to continue using it. She held off, believing incorrectly 
that our service would investigate and be able to resolve the matter before the expiry of 
the IG deadline. That wouldve been possible if we had met our advertised standards, 
but we failed to explain that we were in fact falling well short of those.
Before she received the cash from IG, Mrs C had identified the stock she was intending 
to trade. I appeared to be looking for evidence of this in an almost forensic manner and 
not on a reasonable basis, because there was no reason whatsoever for her to explain in 
advance to IG any trade she was intending to make with another stockbroker.
I had said: The fact the plan to buy this particular share or any other was not articulated 
before the fact, means I dont have any evidence of Mrs Cs intentions before the 
investment performed well - so there isnt anything to show that her belief about how she 
might have invested the cash hasnt been influenced unintentionally by knowing with 
hindsight how some investments had performed. This also means there isnt anything 
[that] points to a particular trade  in terms of the specific timing and price of the 
instrument. She is deeply concerned that this statement suggests, possibly, a fraudulent intent in her message to IG on 1 September 2021  which is preposterous.
Evidence substantiating her intentions can be found in the fact she was not an avid or 
experienced trader  as evidenced by her IG account application  and her IG watchlist 
only ever contained one stock other than the stock she bought. At no time did she hold 
stock other than these two within her ISA, CFD account or elsewhere  as shown by her 
account history. She can also confirm she hasnt bought or sold any shares since those. 
All this dispels my unreasonable supposition.
In connection with her intention to buy the shares, the cash transfer took place after 3pm 
on 31 August 2021 and she didnt know of this when writing to IG on 1 September. She 
bought the shares in question on 3 September. 
There is a consistent trail of interaction with this share purchase and no evidence to 
indicate she was considering any other purchase. IG was put on notice more than once 
that its unacceptable delay in releasing her cash may lead to lost trading opportunities. 
IG, through its own deliberate and dilatory attitude, was directly responsible for reducing 
the number of shares she purchased on 3 September 2021. 
The use of the word any when referring to the trading opportunities being missed, did 
not mean there were opportunities of various kinds are being missed currently or that 
opportunities didnt exist at present but might arise in future. Rather the situation was 
that every moment of delay caused a loss of any opportunity, at any moment in time, for 
Mrs C to purchase the additional shares. 
My provisional outcome in her opinion infers that she might have bought the shares in 
order to claim redress for the loss. This is unthinkable, hurtful, ludicrous and at best 
unfair. The chance of profiting from such a course would have been remote and such a 
course was against her character. There is no evidence to support such a supposition 
and ample evidence to support what she says about what she wouldve done. 
She has said: On 1 September 2021, prior to her knowing that IG had eventually 
returned her cash and approximately twenty-six days after the process to transfer her 
shares and cash had been actioned, she clearly identified the share even though its 
name was not used. At that time she did not know in what direction the share price would 
move and arrive at by the time she would be able to access her cash and action the 
purchase.  Please note that the purchase was made at the first opportunity her cash 
became available and was fully used to fund the purchase.
IG was morally obliged to ensure her ISA cash and ISA shares were prioritised for 
transfer, after having instructed her to move her accounts out. It denied her access to or 
use of her cash and shares for an inappropriately long period. Where evidence exists 
that IG has given its client wrong information or failed promises regarding her cash, it is 
unfair to ignore or excuse the inadequacies of IGs poor staff performance.  
I suggested she should have used other sources of cash to invest in the stock market 
while awaiting her cash which was contained in a tax-exempt ISA subject to strict HMRC 
rules. She is appalled by that suggestion. It would be more appropriate to look more 
carefully at the offending party.
Many institutions are currently performing disgracefully but that isnt the standard by 
which IG should be judged. A few businesses still perform well and she brought to my 
attention one that performed far better when handling the transfer of ISA monies.My provisional outcome failed to enforce any measures to make IG raise its standards to 
what one would reasonably expect from a global financial institution. It allows IG to get 
away with only paying a small fine for carrying out work to an inappropriate standard, 
rather than upholding correct business standards. I was influenced in this by our service 
not meeting its own standards, meaning I cant criticise IG. She was justified in expecting 
IG to provide a standard of service expressly required from a professional regulated 
company entrusted with pensioners hard-earned savings.
Id considered the complaint in isolation without regard to the other errors and poor 
service she and her husband had experienced. The redress wasnt adequate for the 
hours of work and distress required to make IG acknowledge its many shortcomings. I 
was lenient towards IG, lacked regard for her reasonable expectations and didnt provide 
adequate protection for a customer paying for a financial service and entrusting IG with 
joint assets of around £126,000. 
Before trading apps, clients contacted brokers in person or by phone and trades took 
place almost immediately. Stock market prices change in milliseconds, so accuracy and 
speed are absolutely necessary to protect clients finances and fulfil a stockbrokers duty 
of care to its clients. Unnecessary delays in expediting client instructions are tantamount 
to negligence. My provisional outcome appears to completely ignore the duty of care IG 
owed her while it was entrusted with large sums of her money and appears to say it is 
acceptable for IG to choose to give a sub-standard service despite its high charges. Id 
fully supported IG in its total lack of regard for her financial or mental well-being. She on 
the other hand had to respond to and make payment to IG promptly with no leeway.
It appears clients have to wait an undefined and protracted period for payments, despite 
payments having become faster in banking, but must pay immediately to protect the 
position of the broker. This totally unequitable situation allows large firms to abuse their 
position and profit from the extended retention of client monies, understaffing, poorly 
trained and under supervised staff and the failure of governing bodies to adequately 
police and penalise them.
It seems in the 21st century it is unreasonable for members of the public to expect 
businesses to perform well and provide good and efficient service, even when the 
service is paid for. Sadly, financial institutions have very much lower standards of 
governance and enforcement than that of yesteryears.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the redress IG has already offered for inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable and I dont think there are grounds to award redress for lost investment gains.
Ive explained and summarised my reasons below, which are in large part the same as those 
Ive already shared with the parties - although I do agree with some points Mrs C has made.
Government guidelines suggest transfers like that of Mrs Cs cash ISA to IGs stocks and 
shares ISA should take no longer than 30 days. That said, unreasonable delays should be 
avoided in any event  so finishing things within 30 days does not in itself mean a transfer 
was timely or without undue delay.
In this case though, IG accepts it did delay the transfer as Mrs Cs ISA cash wasnt credited 
to her IG ISA until 25 February, three weeks after IG got the cash. There doesnt seem to be a reason for that delay, which also contributed to the transfer taking longer than 30 days. So 
I agree IG was right to accept it fell short and ought to have completed this more quickly. Ive 
not seen evidence to support the idea that this delay resulted in the loss of particular gains 
on investments Mrs C would otherwise have made. So I conclude that the right approach is 
an award for the inconvenience caused to Mrs C by IGs delay.
Turning to the transfer out, IG stopped Mrs C from making investments before the transfer. 
So any delay in the transfer out would mean Mrs C missing out on investment opportunities 
and potentially suffering losses as a result. I remain of the view  and in agreement with 
Mrs C  that because of this IG ought to have paid special attention to ensuring the transfer 
was not delayed and to completing it as quickly as it could. 
IGs terms and conditions did allow it to stop offering its services and warned that in such a 
situation it might not allow further purchases. But those terms dont in themselves persuade 
me that IG couldnt still be held responsible for financial losses arising from undue delay.
Here the total time taken for the transfer out did not exceed the 30 calendar days in the ISA 
guidance. Mrs C refers to 26 days approximately. But in my view if unnecessary or avoidable 
delay within that period led to Mrs C losing out, there would still be a case for redress - given 
what Ive said above about how the transfer out and the restrictions on the account in the 
meantime were imposed by IG. So Ive considered carefully whether delay in that process 
gives grounds to award Mrs C redress for investment losses.
In IGs chat interaction with Mrs C, IG said the cash would be transferred tomorrow, which 
on 24 August meant 25 August. But what the chat also said was that the cash would follow 
the stocks and that they were due to settle on 26 August  which implied the cash would be 
sent at the earliest later on 26 August or on 27 August (a Friday). So there was clearly some 
confusion on IGs part in what it was communicating in the chat. 
But whether the date IG intended to indicate in the chat was 25 August or 27 August 2021, in 
my view what the chat said wasnt intended to be a firm or contractual undertaking but a 
general guide to how things stood and what might usually be expected. I say this not based 
on the ambiguity in the chat, although it tends to support that view, but based on the informal 
nature of chat communication itself. So I dont agree that IG committed itself, by virtue of its 
statements in the chat, to transferring the cash no later than 27 August. Rather it gave a 
broad indication that this was when the cash might be expected.
The stock actually settled on 27 August 2021 - a day later than anticipated - and the cash 
followed on the next working day, a Tuesday after a bank holiday. So what happened was 
what was anticipated in the chat except one working day later. In light of all Ive said above, 
my view is that this transfer was broadly in line with what was said in the chat and doesnt 
amount to an undue delay in the process.
The transaction history Mrs C has sent me tends to reinforce the view Ive already reached 
above. This shows a small part of the transferred cash was from a dividend Mrs C received 
in June 2021 but for the most part the cash was from a share sale on 20 August 2021 with 
the cash being received in her IG account on 24 August 2021, so it was in the account for 
only a few working days before being transferred.
So the cash wasnt awaiting reinvestment throughout the 26 days or so that IG took to carry 
out the transfer, but only for the last few days of that process. Also those 26 days were, as 
Ive said, within the timeframe envisaged by the guidance. Bearing in mind that after IG sent 
the cash it was two days before it became available to Mrs C in her new account, it appears 
that it would not have been feasible in any event for cash arriving with IG on 24 August to 
have been made available to Mrs C for investment in her new account on 26 August  which is the date Mrs C used in her earlier submissions to estimate her possible investment loss. 
So overall Im not persuaded that there was delay of a kind that would make IG responsible 
for losses Mrs C might have suffered as a result of not being able to invest her cash earlier 
than she did in fact invest it. 
The further information Mrs C has provided adds weight to what she has said about planning 
to use the funds to buy the shares she did buy. She pointed out she did invest it as soon as 
she could and what she has sent me shows her account only traded two shares and that her 
chat enquiry was made the day the cash arrived in her account. But as there was no undue 
delay in transferring the cash, there arent grounds for awarding redress for investment loss 
regardless of whether I agree with Mrs Cs view of how she would have invested the funds.
I dont doubt that what Mrs C has said is what she believes would most likely have happened 
if shed had the cash earlier. I should make it clear that in noting that she did use the cash to 
buy the shares in question, I was noting evidence that in my view was in line with her belief 
and supportive of her claim. The issue was whether I could fairly conclude from this and the 
other available evidence that Mrs Cs belief about what wouldve happened was in fact what 
most likely wouldve happened and supported her claim for loss or a loss along those lines.
Also Ive not said Mrs C was unintentionally influenced by hindsight knowledge of how the 
shares performed. Ive said this possibility couldnt be ruled out in the absence of evidence 
of her intentions before the shares performed well. I think thats right and that had Mrs C 
instead told IG of her plan, this wouldve been strong evidence of such intentions. I said the 
absence of this meant there was no evidence of her intentions. That was going too far, as it 
suggests that only an explicit articulation of her plan could evidence her intentions, which is 
not right. I accept other sorts of evidence can cover the same ground. In my view Mrs Cs 
trading history she has sent, and her actual purchase of the shares later, amount to that sort 
of evidence. 
That said, I dont follow Mrs Cs suggestion that if I concluded that there wasnt enough 
evidence to support her view it would imply that she bought the shares inappropriately to 
support her case for redress. I dont think that follows at all and it isnt my view which is why I 
havent suggested it.
My provisional outcome did say: I note in passing that if Mrs C had other available funds 
then it would mean she did have the option to buy the shares she wanted with those funds 
outside the ISA, which would have restricted her loss to the tax payable on her gains. I dont 
know if she had such funds or not. So I noted that this mitigating option might have been 
available to Mrs C, depending on her circumstances. But, to be clear, this doesnt mean that 
I think she ought reasonably to have been expected to take that course. 
In conclusion for the transfer out, I dont think redress for delay of the transfer out is due. It 
was done in around 26 days. What was said in the chat didnt put IG under an obligation to 
complete the process sooner than it did. Also IG in fact completed its process broadly within 
the timescales anticipated in the chat in any event. 
But I remain of the view that IG did fall short in the service it provided  particularly as 
regards the delay in crediting Mrs Cs account with the proceeds of the transfer in. So I think 
it fair and reasonable that IG pays Mrs C £150 redress for the inconvenience caused by the 
shortcomings in its service. 
So I uphold Mrs Cs complaint on that basis and to that extent.
Im grateful to Mrs C for all her points and for her prompt responses to all our enquiries.Putting things right
To put things right for the inconvenience caused to Mrs C by its failings in the transactions 
Ive discussed and considered above, IG Markets Limited should pay Mrs C £150.
My final decision
In light of all Ive said above and for the reasons I have given, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
IG Markets Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman