DRN-3544025
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B has complained about the way Vitality Life Limited trading as Vitality Life 
(Vitality) dealt with the late Mrs Bs claim.
What happened
Mrs B had an income protection insurance policy which was administered by Vitality. 
She made a claim following a period of ill health in 2021, which Vitality accepted. But Mrs B  
complained that Vitality delayed in assessing her claim, made mistakes in the benefit 
amounts paid and didnt pay her benefit when it was due which resulted in stress, 
inconvenience and financial difficulties at a time she was already suffering with serious 
mental health illness. 
Vitality apologised and offered £1,000 compensation in its final response. Sadly, Mrs B 
passed away in December 2021. Her representatives have pursued the complaint on behalf 
of her estate. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that the offer of £1,000 was reasonable 
but also recommended that Vitality pay 8% simple interest on the delayed benefit amounts 
that had been paid to Mrs B.
Vitality accepted this but the estate did not. In summary, Mrs Bs representatives have made 
the following comments:
This matter caused severe distress and inconvenience to Mrs B at a time when she 
was suffering from a severe mental health illness.
Mrs Bs treating specialists had written to Vitality twice to say that the delay in paying 
the claim and the resulting financial pressures were exacerbating her stress and 
prolonging her illness and recovery.
The estate would accept £4,000 to be payable to Mrs Bs husband along with an 
apology.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think £1,000 compensation plus interest on the late benefit payments is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ill explain why.
But firstly I would like to offer my sincere condolences to Mrs Bs family members for their 
sad loss. 
I will set out what I consider to be key to my decision rather than addressing every point 
made or repeating what our investigator has already detailed. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say claims should be dealt with promptly and 
fairly. 
Vitality accepts its failings and initially offered a hamper to Mrs B, followed by an offer of 
£500 compensation which it later increased to £1,000. 
There is no dispute that Vitalitys handling of the claim was poor so its for me to decide 
whether the level of compensation is fair and reasonable, taking into account all the 
circumstances.
Income protection insurance complaints typically take a number of weeks or months 
to assess and validate as both medical and financial information needs to be 
requested and assessed. Having said that, once a business receives the requested 
information, I would expect it to assess the evidence promptly and not ask for 
documents it already holds. 
Vitality was notified of the claim in May 2021 and Mrs B provided it with the 
information it requested in early June 2021. Further information was requested and 
provided throughout June and July.
Mrs B provided everything Vitality asked for as quickly as she could. She was clearly 
stressed about her financial situation as she emailed Vitality numerous times and 
asked it to deal with her claim promptly. 
In August 2021, Vitality emailed Mrs B to accept the claim but said it needed further 
updated information and a report from her GP. 
Mrs Bs treating specialist wrote to Vitality on two separate occasions in July 2021 
and September 2021 to say that the delay in dealing with the claim was causing Mrs 
B stress and a deterioration in her mental health. 
Vitality made mistakes with the benefit payment amounts and didnt keep Mrs B 
updated. 
A payment was made to Mrs B in October 2021 but this was incorrect and no 
calculation or explanation was provided at this stage. 
In November 2021, Mrs B received a helpful calculation and an explanation of the 
correct amounts payable. This included an underpayment of the money owed to Mrs 
B. 
Vitality issued its final response letter to Mrs Bs complaint in December 2021 in 
which it apologised for its poor service and offered £500 compensation. 
Following further submissions from Mrs Bs father, regarding the letters sent by Mrs 
Bs treating specialists, and the effect on her mental health, Vitality increased its offer 
of compensation from £500 to £1,000.
Having considered everything above, as a whole, I think £1,000 compensation, to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience Vitalitys delays and mistakes caused to Mrs B between June 
and December 2021, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, for the following 
reasons:I cant compensate Mrs Bs husband or her father for any stress and inconvenience 
they have felt.
The compensation is limited to the impact on Mrs B, during the time she was dealing 
with Vitality. 
I cannot punish Vitality and have taken into account that the assessment of the claim 
would have taken a number of weeks based on the information needed for this type 
of claim.
Our investigator has recommended 8% simple interest on the delayed benefit 
payments which recognises that Mrs B was without the necessary funds for a 
number of months. 
There is no guarantee that an income protection policy will pay out immediately as 
insurers are entitled to validate a claim and request and review the evidence needed.
I think it would have been reasonable for Vitality to have reviewed and assessed the 
claim and any new information as quickly as possible, based on the information it 
needed. But I also have to take into account that it is entitled to request a GP report 
and further medical evidence. Delays due to third parties cant be attributed to 
Vitality. 
Mrs Bs treating mental health specialist wrote to Vitality and asked for it to expedite 
the assessment of Mrs Bs claim. It isnt unreasonable to suggest that the stress of 
not receiving an income or benefit was exacerbating Mrs Bs mental health 
symptoms. I would expect Vitality to acknowledge this correspondence and deal with 
the matter more swiftly.
I was pleased to see that an income protection specialist at Vitality dealt with the 
claim properly in November 2021 and provided some reassurance to Mrs B. But 
Vitality then made another mistake in December 2021 at which point Mrs B asked her 
father to deal with Vitality on her behalf. 
I dont doubt that Mrs B was distressed by her experience with Vitality. I think the 
claim was accepted within a reasonable time but the payments were delayed. For 
this, I think the compensation offered takes into account that this type of claim would 
have taken a number of weeks to assess but also that a catalogue of errors were 
made which caused stress to Mrs B when she was already struggling with her mental 
health. 
Overall, I think £1,000 is fair and reasonable for the delays in payment and the 
chasing Mrs B had to do. I dont think its possible to quantify or put a figure on the 
grief the family feel for their loss and my decision doesnt and cant compensate for 
that. My decision relates to the delays and inconvenience suffered by Mrs B in 2021, 
as set out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Vitality Life Limited trading 
as Vitality Life to pay the estate of Mrs B £1,000 compensation plus 8% simple interest on 
the benefit payments which were delayed from the date each payment was due, to the date 
payments ended.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman