DRN-3413123
The complaint
Mrs B complains Tesco Underwriting Limited unfairly declined her home insurance claim. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mrs B made a claim on her Tesco home insurance policy. Her 
conservatory had developed a leak. She felt this had been caused by a recent earthquake.  
Initially Tesco accepted an earthquake was the cause of damage. A contractor was 
instructed to repair the conservatory roof. Repairs were delayed by the pandemic. Initial 
attempts at repairs didnt stop the leaks.
In the summer of 2021 Tescos contractor inspected the property again. After removing roof 
tiles they reported an issue with the guttering. They felt this was responsible for continued 
water ingress and internal damage. The contractor said small sections had been fitted 
incorrectly. They felt this was a pre-existing issue, not related to the earthquake or the repair 
works they had carried out. It said stopping the leaks would require a full replacement of the 
conservatory roof, at a cost of about £24,000.
Tesco declined to cover that, saying the problem with the guttering wasnt the result of an 
insured event. Instead it was due to faulty workmanship or design  something excluded by 
Mrs Bs policy. 
In November 2021 Tesco responded to Mrs Bs complaint. It continued to rely on the faulty 
workmanship, faulty materials or faulty design exclusion to refuse to cover any further work. 
It offered Mrs B £150 compensation to recognise how long it had taken to reach its decision 
on the claim. 
Mrs B had said she didnt want Tescos contractor undertaking any further work. So it said it 
would make a cash settlement of about £1,370 so she could arrange the outstanding works 
it felt it was liable for. She wasnt satisfied so came to this service. She wants Tesco to fully 
repair the roof. She says the conservatory had been fine, with no leaks, for 12 years. She 
feels if the guttering was a problem Tescos contractors would have realised earlier. And 
shes unhappy with the unfinished condition the conservatory has been left in for a long time. 
In March 2022 our investigator assessed the complaint. She wasnt persuaded the damage 
was a result of faulty design or workmanship. Instead she felt the earthquake was most likely 
responsible. So she recommended Tesco repair the roof. She also said it should pay Mrs B 
£500 to recognise the impact of its failure to do so earlier. Mrs B accepted the assessment, 
but Tesco didn't.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Tesco unfairly declined any further repairs to Mrs Bs roof. 
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Tesco and Mrs B have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key 
or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Mrs Bs policy terms cover her building against loss or damage arising as a result of a range 
of perils - including earthquakes. It seems to be accepted there was an earthquake in the 
area around the time of loss.  She says the roof didnt leak in 12 or so years existence 
before the earthquake  despite some major storms.
Tesco initially accepted the damage to the roof as arising as result of the earthquake  so it 
began repairs. As set out above it later decided the earthquake, at most, simply highlighted 
an already existing problem  the design of the roof. 
So its now relying on the following exclusion to decline any further work to the roof  You 
are not covered for loss or damage caused by faulty workmanship, faulty materials or faulty 
design. 
If an insurer wants to rely on an exclusion, its required to show it would be fair for it to do so. 
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded Tescos shown enough. On balance I feel 
earthquake is the most likely main or dominant cause of the damage. 
Tescos said the gutter was of insufficient capacity  faulty design. Its also said the gutter 
wasnt adequately joined  faulty workmanship.  
Tescos hasnt provided much to support its claim the gutter was of insufficient capacity  
other than an opinion from one its contractors on what would be a better size. It hasnt 
shown, for example, any technical resource to back up that opinion. 
In the same vein Tesco made a reference to the building regulations requiring guttering 
capacity based on pitch and rainfall data. But it hasnt - with reference to the relevant 
regulations or guidance set out what would have been thought an appropriate size or design 
for the property at the time of the conservatorys construction.
Mrs B says the guttering didnt leak or cause problems in the 12 years prior to the 
earthquake - despite various storms. If it was of inadequate capacity, Id expect it to have 
been demonstrated sooner. So considering that, and Tescos failure to support its position 
on the correct gutter size, Im not persuaded it was inadequate  or faulty by design.  
As Ive said Tesco also referred to joins of the guttering being inappropriate  with adapters 
used rather than welding. Again its failed to provide much, other than a contractors opinion, 
to support this position. It hasnt provided something to show, at the time of construction, it 
would have been considered general good practice to have welded the joins in the 
conservatorys roof. 
Again if this were the main cause Id expect the problem to have become apparent earlier  
rather than following an earthquake. So Im not persuaded the cause of damage is most 
likely faulty workmanship.
As stated above Im not persuaded the roof design or workmanship was inadequate. The 
roof is reported to have been free of leaks in the 12 years of its lifetime  with the problem 
only materialising after the earthquake. So it seems most likely the earthquake was the main 
or dominant cause of damage. So Tescos decision to decline to undertake any further work to the roof was unfair. I require 
it to restart repairs to the roof  ensuring its free from leaks  and to make good any 
damage (such as removal of internal cladding) incurred during the earlier repair attempts. 
In addition I require Tesco to pay Mrs B £500 in recognition of the impact of its decision to 
unfairly decline any further work. Shes provided videos of the condition of the property and 
described the impact on her over a long period. Its clearly been inconvenient and distressing 
for her and her family to reside there whilst the claim has been on hold. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to:
continue with and complete repairs to Mrs Bs conservatory roof to ensure its leak 
free,
make good any damage caused by earlier repair attempts and 
pay her £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman