DRN-4049020
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Santander UK Plc wrote to them confirming it had agreed to 
change their mortgage to a fixed rate deal, only to tell them  some months later  they were 
on a variable (tracker) rate.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr and Mrs T applied to change their interest rate deal on their mortgage with 
Santander, via its website. Mr and Mrs T say they applied for a fixed rate deal and have 
never taken anything other than a fixed rate mortgage deal. The interest rate they applied for 
 1.94%  was only available as a tracker rate. Santander says that was clear on its website. 
Santander sent Mr and Mrs T a mortgage offer electronically on 27 April 2022 and received 
Mr and Mrs Ts acceptance of the offer the same day. The offer outlined all the main terms of 
the mortgage including that the rate being offered to Mr and Mrs T was:
A variable rate which is 1.19% above the Bank of England official bank rate (its base 
rate) currently 0.75%, for 24 months, to give a current rate payable of 1.94%.
However, in acknowledgement of Mr and Mrs Ts acceptance of its mortgage offer, 
Santander sent them a letter, dated 28 April 2022, that said:
Converting your mortgage to 1.94% fixed rate.
Your account has now been converted on to the new mortgage deal you requested.
Mr and Mrs T say they didnt know they were on a variable rate until they received a letter 
from Santander in June 2022 informing them of a Bank of England base rate rise and the 
effect that would have on their contractual mortgage payment. So, they complained to 
Santander.
In its final response letter dated 22 June 2022, Santander acknowledged that it had made an 
error in its letter of 28 April 2022. It offered to pay Mr and Mrs T £75 for the inconvenience 
the letter had cause them.
Dissatisfied with Santanders response, Mr and Mrs T asked us to consider their complaint. 
Our investigator thought Santander needed to do more. He said he was satisfied that 
Santanders website would have confirmed to Mr and Mrs T what rate deal they were 
applying for and that the mortgage offer did the same. He didnt think an error with 
Santanders website caused Mr and Mrs T to select a variable rate when they wanted a fixed 
rate. So, our investigator thought it was fair that Santander would charge another fee if       
Mr and Mrs T wanted to apply for a new rate deal.
However, our investigator thought that if Santanders letter dated 28 April 2022 correctly 
showed the new rate deal as a tracker, that would have prompted Mr and Mrs T to take 
action. So, he said Santander should allow Mr and Mrs T to switch to the fixed rate that was 
available to them at that time 2.59% - making adjustments for the difference between what 
they would have paid since then and what theyve actually paid.
Mr and Mrs T accepted our investigators opinion, though they argued that the letter was 
computer generated so couldnt have contained a human error  it must have been a system 
error.
Santander didnt agree with our investigators opinion. It said Mr and Mrs T selected a 
tracker rate deal and thats the deal they were switched to. It says its records show that no 
fixed rate offers were sent to Mr and Mrs T and they accepted the tracker rate offer. So, 
Santander didnt agree with our investigators opinion. But it has said it would pay               
Mr and Mrs T an additional £75 to that already paid in respect the error in its letter dated    
28 April 2022.
As Santander didnt agree with our investigators opinion, Mr and Mrs Ts complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
I wrote to both parties on 24 February 2023 with my provisional decision  because I 
disagreed with the opinion of our investigator. I gave both parties until 24 March 2023 to 
respond with any further comments, but neither party has responded.
In my provisional decision, I said:
To decide Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, Ive thought about whether a Santander system 
error caused Mr and Mrs T to switch to a variable rate deal when they actually chose 
a fixed rate deal. And Ive thought about whether the error in Santanders letter dated 
28 April 2022 caused Mr and Mrs T not to question the rate deal theyd received.
Mr and Mrs T have told us that they selected a fixed rate and that they always do. 
So, if that was what happened, it would mean Santanders online application portal 
incorrectly showed that the 1.94% rate deal was a fixed rate. Santander has provided 
evidence that the lowest fixed rate it offered at that time was 2.59%. And 1.94% was 
the lowest rate deal it offered of any type at that time. 
Santander also provided screenshots of all the stages of its online application 
process along with a timeline of Mr and Mrs Ts actions and their correspondence. 
From this and my own research on its website, I think the process itself is relatively 
straightforward and the screens the user interacts with are relatively clear and well 
laid out. That said, I think its possible for a user to make an error, but Im not 
persuaded there is anything Santander could change about the process to ensure 
that doesnt happen.
More specifically relevant to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is whether the application 
portal showed incorrect information  that its 1.94% rate deal was fixed. While I think 
that is possible, I dont think its likely. I say that because, if that is what happened in 
April 2022, I would expect to have seen complaints from other Santander customers 
who experienced the same thing. I havent seen that. And, in any event, Santander  
along with all other mortgage lenders  safeguards against any such error by 
producing a mortgage offer letter for applicants to read and agree to. Ive seen a 
copy of the mortgage offer Mr and Mrs T agreed to and, as outlined above, that 
clearly shows the rate applicable to the deal was variable. From what Santander has 
provided, it would appear that the offer letter is generated from the same system as 
the application portal. So, I think its more likely than not that if the application portal 
showed incorrect information, the offer would have done too. As it didnt, Im not 
persuaded there was an error on the application portal.Santander has acknowledged that its letter dated 28 April 2028 incorrectly said the 
1.94% rate deal was fixed. Its also provided screen shots showing the system it used 
to generate that letter  a letter sent in the post to Mr and Mrs T. That system 
appears to be an older one, similar to that used for different tasks by many lenders. 
As the system is different, I dont think its likely that the information used to populate 
the letter came automatically from Santanders application portal. I think its much 
more likely that the key information was manually typed by a Santander employee to 
produce the letter dated 28 April 2022. So, I think Santanders claim that the error 
was human is likely given the age of the system and the clear difference between 
that and the system used to run its application portal.
Ive thought about whether the 28 April 2022 letter was the cause of Mr and Mrs T 
not questioning the error they say was made. I understand that, if Mr and Mrs T 
intended to choose a fixed rate, the letter dated 28 April 2022 may have reassured 
them that was what theyd received. But that letter clearly contradicted the mortgage 
offer theyd agreed to the previous day. 
I think its reasonable that, as they were required to agree to the terms of the 
mortgage offer, Mr and Mrs T should have considered that document carefully. And 
having done so, I think that document should have carried at least as much weight 
for Mr and Mrs T as the letter dated 28 April 2022. So, I think the letter contradicting 
the mortgage offer should have prompted Mr and Mrs T to question the deal rather 
than reassuring them they had the deal they wanted  particularly as the 
contradiction was such a significant one. That means I dont think the letter dated    
28 April 2022 should have reassured them they had a fixed rate deal, if thats what 
they intended to apply for.
Overall, I understand Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage is becoming less affordable for them 
as interest rates rise and its clear that Santander did make an error. But Im not 
persuaded that error should have stopped them taking action, given that the offer 
they agreed to was correct and contradicted the letter dated 28 April 2022. That 
means I dont uphold their complaint.
While I dont uphold their complaint, Santander should pay Mr and Mrs T the 
additional £75 it has offered since they asked us to consider it. That offer brings the 
total amount payable by Santander to £150 in respect of the error contained in its 
letter dated 28 April 2028.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions in response to my provisional decision, I 
see no cause to depart from that. So, for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision 
dated 24 February 2023, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. But Santander should pay 
Mr and Mrs T the £150 it offered to resolve their complaint if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about Santander UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman