DRN-3667040
The complaint
Miss T says NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss T applied for a credit card in November 2015. It was approved with a limit of £300 and
she was given six subsequent credit limit increases by NewDay.
The first increase in May 2016 was to £1,300; the second in November 2016 to £2,500; the
third in May 2017 to £3,750; the fourth in March 2019 to £5,750; the fifth in October 2020 to
£6,500 and the final one in May 2021 to £7,750.
Miss T says she was constantly in debt and this card and the limit increases only made
things worse. If NewDay had done proper checks it would have seen she could not afford
such substantial increases in credit.
Our investigator upheld Miss Ts complaint in part. He thought the lending decisions prior to
March 2019 were responsible. But from that point NewDay ought to have realised Miss T
was having problems managing her money. And any subsequent increases would most
likely cause her financial harm.
NewDay disagreed with this assessment. It said whilst Miss T had some fees applied before
the March 2019 increase, this was in line with its lending policy and so increasing the limit
without any further checks was reasonable. The overall view of Miss Ts account was that
she used it for high retail spending but was able to maintain repayments, at times making
large repayments. This pattern continued as the limit was increased further. Her account
was overall well-managed with no arrears or financial difficulty markers from inception.
As an agreement was not reached the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans
review. I reached a different conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties a chance to comment. An extract follows and forms part of this 
final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
The card application and initial limit of £300
When Miss T applied for the credit card NewDay asked about her employment and
residential status and for details of her gross annual income. It carried out a credit check to
understand her credit history and existing credit commitments. NewDay has shared the
results of these checks.
They show that Miss T declared an annual income of £4,875 and that she had £1,100 of
unsecured debt. She had no defaulted accounts, no adverse public records, no payday
loans and no accounts in arrears.
Given the amount of credit it was offering and Miss Ts credit history I dont think it would
have been proportionate for NewDay to have carried out a fuller financial review. I think, at
this stage, it was reasonable for NewDay to conclude the card and its repayments would be
sustainably affordable for Miss T.
It follows I dont think NewDay was wrong to give Miss T the card.
The first credit limit increase in May 2016
NewDay offered Miss T a credit limit increase of £1,000 to £1,300 in May 2016. I think this
was a significant increase and NewDay needed to be sure Miss T could sustainably repay a
balance of £1,300 within a reasonable period of time. NewDays submission suggests that its
decision to increase the credit limit on Miss Ts account was largely based on reviewing her
spending and payment behaviour on both its card, and external credit. I have some concerns
with this approach as its not clear to me why a borrower who is able to successfully manage
a given credit limit can then automatically be deemed, without further checks at the time of
the decision, to be able to successfully manage a higher limit. And Miss Ts account had only
been open for six months.
In the circumstances of this case I dont think solely these types of checks were sufficient. I
say this as NewDay was increasing Miss Ts limit to around 25% of her gross annual
income. This was a very significant proportion of her total declared income. I think it ought to
have triggered further checks so NewDay could get the assurances it needed that Miss T
would be able to sustainably repay a higher balance in a reasonable period of time.
To look at what better checks would most likely have shown NewDay I have reviewed
Miss Ts bank statements from the months prior to the limit increase. I am not saying it had
to do exactly this, but it is one way for me to recreate what a fuller financial review would
most likely have shown NewDay. The statements show Miss T was having significant
problems managing her money: she was persistently overdrawn, not in credit once, between
February and May 2016, paying interest and fees on this debt. So had NewDay carried out
proportionate checks it would most likely have seen that Miss T was not in a position to be
able to repay any new debt sustainably, that is without borrowing to repay (so most likely
using her overdraft facility) or suffering other financial harm.
It follows I think NewDay was wrong to increase Miss Ts limit in May 2016. I have then
looked at Miss Ts bank statements in the months after the limit increased. Her finances
show no sign of improvement as she remains persistently overdrawn. It follows I find
NewDay cannot argue it was responsible to continue to increase her limit - unless it can
evidence that it completed fuller financial checks than it has currently submitted that
demonstrate Miss T was in fact managing her repayments sustainably. In the current
absence of any such information I find all subsequent limit increases were irresponsible. By
March 2019 NewDay had increased Miss Ts limit to in excess of her annual salary, surely a
warning bell that the repayments Miss T was managing to make were not sustainable.
So I think NewDay, as a responsible lender, should have would have realised any additional
credit beyond the initial limit would not be sustainably affordable for Miss T.
This means Miss T went on to pay interest and charges on six advances of credit that
shouldnt have been provided to her. So she has lost out as a result of what NewDay did
wrong. And if my final decision is to uphold Miss Ts complaint NewDay will need to put
things right. 
Both parties responded before the deadline of 9 September 2022, so I can issue the final 
decision now. NewDay confirmed it had nothing further to add. Miss T wanted to let us know after being on a payment plan for some time, she transferred her remaining balance to a 
new card and the Aqua account is now closed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
NewDay is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the
credit facilities it was giving to Miss T were affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to
be proportionate to things like the credit limits it offered Miss T, how much she had to repay
(including interest and charges) each month, her borrowing history with it and what it knew
about her circumstances. But there is no set list of checks it had to do.
This means to reach my decision I need to consider if NewDay carried out proportionate
checks at the time of Miss Ts card application and each limit increase; if so, did it make fair
lending decisions based on the results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would
most likely have shown. I also need to think about, bearing in mind the circumstances at the
time of each additional advance in credit, whether there was a point at which NewDay ought
reasonably to have realised it was increasing Miss Ts indebtedness in a way that was
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit.
I set out in my provisional decision why I thought NewDay should have stopped lending to 
Miss T after the initial £300. As neither party sent in any comments disagreeing with this 
conclusion, or any new evidence for me to consider, I have no reason to change the findings 
or decision I reached.  With regards Miss Ts comment that she no longer holds a balance 
with NewDay, I will reflect this in the redress section that follows.
In summary, I find NewDay was wrong to give all six credit limit increases to Miss T.  
Putting things right
NewDay should:
rework Miss Ts NewDay account to ensure that from May 2016 interest is only
charged on the first £300 outstanding, all late payment and over limit fees
should also be removed;
there is already no outstanding balance and the effect of all adjustments will result in 
Miss T having overpaid - the overpayments should be returned to Miss T along with 
8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date they were made until the date 
of settlement; and
amend Miss Ts credit file to remove any adverse information recorded from May
2016 to date.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must give
Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Ts complaint in part. NewDay Ltd must put things right as set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman