DRN-3343983
The complaint
Ms B and Miss K complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires)
refused to extend their interest-only mortgage after the expiry of their mortgage term.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022, the findings of which said:
The original mortgage offer dated 13 November 2006 shows that the mortgage was 
interest-only and for a term of 13 years. So Im satisfied that Ms B and Miss K ought to 
have been aware that the mortgage term was going to end in June 2020 and that the full 
amount borrowed would be due at that time.
Im also satisfied that the mortgage was a residential mortgage. Im unable to consider 
what happened in 2006/2007 that led to this being a residential mortgage rather than the 
BTL mortgage Ms B and Miss K say they wanted and thought this was. That would have 
been something they needed to raise with their broker when they found out about the 
problem about a year after the mortgage started. Birmingham Midshires didnt do 
anything wrong when it granted this as a residential mortgage, as that is what it was told it 
would be. It helped Ms B and Miss K when the problem came to light by granting them 
consent to let for the full 13 year mortgage term, but the mortgage remained as a 
residential mortgage.
That means I can only consider this complaint from the starting point that this is a 
residential mortgage and Ms B and Miss K were renting out the property, rather than 
living in it.
We expect a business to treat its customers fairly when an interest-only mortgage 
expires. But that doesnt necessarily mean that it must extend the term on the same basis 
the mortgage was held on, especially when that mortgage wasnt set up correctly as was 
the case here. Birmingham Midshires agreed to allow Ms B and Miss K to rent out the 
property for the whole of the mortgage term, but that term was ending.
Miss K said that they asked for an additional 15 years, not 20 years and they were on a 
standard variable rate so there wasnt any special rate. Ive seen a copy of the original 
request that was made by Ms B and I can see that she requested an extension to the 
term to take her to age 85 (and she was 65 years old at the time) so that would be 20 
years, not 15 years, and she said she wanted the interest rate to remain the same. Ive 
also seen the information about the mortgage which shows it wasnt on the standard 
variable rate, it was a lifetime tracker mortgage (Bank of England Base Rate plus 0.79%) 
that had run from when the mortgage was taken out in 2007.
I understand why Ms B and Miss K wanted Birmingham Midshires to extend the term  
they say they were in negative equity and had no way to repay the debt. But the 
mortgage was held on a residential basis and had a residential mortgage interest rate. 
Birmingham Midshires had allowed Ms B and Miss K to benefit from renting out a property 
whilst paying a residential mortgage interest rate for the entire 13 year term, it doesnt 
seem unfair for it to say it wasnt willing to agree to that for a further 20 years, which is 
what Ms B had asked for. Instead Birmingham Midshires said Ms B and Miss K would 
need to change the mortgage to a BTL mortgage and that seems reasonable.
Having considered everything Im not persuaded that Birmingham Midshires acted
unreasonably in reaching that decision.
Birmingham Midshires hasnt disputed that Miss K was given misleading information in 
her call on 27 April 2020, as she says she was led to believe that a term extension was 
possible. Unfortunately Ive not been able to listen to that call as there is no recording 
available.
I have been able to listen to the follow-up call on 11 May and in that the call handler 
apologised for any earlier mis-information and explained why a term extension wasnt 
possible. Whilst Ms B and Miss K had their hopes raised for a couple of weeks, Im 
satisfied that apology was enough as the information was corrected in the second call 
and Ive not seen any evidence to show those couple of weeks delay in Ms B and Miss K 
thinking the term extension was possible had an impact on what needed to happen, or 
caused any financial loss.
Ms B and Miss K have said that they were required to call every month until they 
remortgaged in February 2021 to see if Birmingham Midshires would extend the hold for 
a further month. They said this put them under financial and emotional strain, and there 
was no mention of a one-year extension, which Birmingham Midshires notes indicated it 
had given. Having considered everything and listened to the calls I agree they werent 
granted a one-year extension.
In the call on 11 May when Miss K was told a term extension wasnt possible, the call 
handler said a hold would be placed on the account for three months after the term ends, 
so that would be until September 2020, and:
The whole point of the next three months is we acknowledge that youre limited in what
you can do []. When we get to the end of the three months, its a catch-up 
conversation and at that point in time we will try to understand what we are able to do.
Im going to be honest and say we cant just indefinitely hold [Miss K] going forward. 
What we can offer is [unclear speech] which would normally be initially a six months 
hold on the account, followed by a catch up conversation and then an agreed amount of 
time after that.
And we would normally offer three months potentially to seek independent financial 
advice and come back to us.
So I would say that at the end of this three months thatll be the discussion points and 
they will be the initial timescales that wed be looking to do.
Im satisfied from this that Birmingham Midshires was clear there would be a hold period 
until September 2020, and then following a conversation at that point it would then look to 
place another hold on the account. That seems reasonable and would give Ms B and 
Miss K time to consider what options they had, such as remortgaging to another lender 
which they completed in February 2021.
Ms B and Miss K have told us about the emotional strain of having to keep Birmingham 
Midshires updated. They said they had to do so every four to six weeks. Ive listened to all 
those calls.After the call in May, Miss K next spoke to Birmingham Midshires on 16 September. She 
said that a mortgage broker had placed an application with another lender but due to the 
valuation of the property they would need to look at other options. The call handler said 
Birmingham Midshires could give them more time and asked Miss K to call back in 30 
days, but she said that the call handler on 11 May had told her she would have another 
three months if she called in September. It was agreed that a further three month hold 
would be placed on the account, but that Miss K should call back with a progress update 
in October.
The next call was on 19 November, and Miss K said she had an agreement with another 
lender and the valuation had been done. She was awaiting the approval from the 
underwriters and she had the funds in place to pay the shortfall between the new 
mortgage and the Birmingham Midshires mortgage. A hold was placed on the account for 
30 days to allow time for a mortgage offer to be issued by the new lender. Miss K was 
asked to phone back by 16 December.
Miss K called again on 8 December. She said the new lender had delays and it was 
agreed to extend the hold until 21 December. Birmingham Midshires asked her to stay in 
contact, and confirmed it could put another hold on when it knew a definite remortgage 
date.
In a call on 5 January with Ms B it was confirmed Birmingham Midshires had received the 
mortgage offer for the new mortgage, and Ms B said they anticipated completing in a 
month so a further hold was placed on the account until 4 February.
On 8 February Ms B called to say completion had been delayed due to legal matters but 
that it was imminent, so a hold for a week was placed on the account.
The last call was on 18 February where Ms B said there was one piece of information 
outstanding before the remortgage could complete, so a hold was placed on the account 
until 5 March, and the remortgage then completed soon after.
I can see that it would have been a difficult time for Ms B and Miss K, trying to remortgage 
their investment property during a pandemic, with the worry that the term had already 
ended and what that may mean if they werent able to arrange the remortgage. That 
couldnt have been easy for them. I understand they felt Birmingham Midshires requests 
for updates to be emotionally draining, but I also understand why Birmingham Midshires 
wanted to be kept informed. The mortgage term had ended, and Birmingham Midshires 
didnt want matters to drift. By asking for updates, it could ensure that matters were 
progressing and offer any help and support Ms B and Miss K may need in the meantime. 
And Im satisfied it acted fairly by not taking further action following the end of the term 
while Ms B and Miss K made arrangements to repay the mortgage.
Ms B and Miss K have mentioned the financial strain, but I cant see they incurred any 
costs here that they wouldnt always have incurred due to the fact Birmingham Midshires 
wasnt able to extend their mortgage term.
Having considered everything Im satisfied Birmingham Midshires decision to not extend 
the term of the mortgage was fairly made based on the fact this was a residential 
mortgage but Ms B and Miss K didnt live in the property. Whilst it wasnt their fault that 
the mortgage was set up incorrectly, it wasnt Birmingham Midshires fault either. It helped 
Ms B and Miss K at the time they discovered the mistake by allowing them to let out the 
property for the full mortgage term, whilst still benefitting from a residential mortgage 
interest rate, which would have been lower than an equivalent BTL interest rate. And while it didnt have to continue that past the end of the contractual mortgage term by 
allowing them to extend the mortgage, it was required to treat Ms B and Miss K fairly and 
allow them a reasonable time to find a way to repay. Im satisfied it did that.
Birmingham Midshires confirmed it had nothing further to add, and Ms B and Miss K  
despite confirming receipt of the decision  didnt make any further submissions.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having considered the full file afresh, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Miss K 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman