DRN-3396354
The complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is linked to a commercial mortgage they held with Atom Bank PLC. They 
are unhappy with how it behaved and treated them during a period of financial difficulties 
from mid-2019. They consider the number of calls they received was inappropriate and that 
the content of them became harassing, threatening and intimidating. They say that, other 
than a Covid-19 payment holiday, Atom didnt offer them any assistance, such as extending 
the term or offering to reduce the amount needed to repay the mortgage. They say the 
situation caused Mr Ps health to deteriorate.
What happened
Below I have summarised the key events relating to the complaint about how Mr and Mrs Ps 
financial difficulties were handled. It is far less detailed than the submissions Mr and Mrs P 
have provided, and I would assure them that I have read everything they have said and 
considered all the documentation they and Atom provided. However, this is an informal 
service and so where appropriate we will summarise and only highlight key events.
Mrs P arranged a secured loan with Atom in 2017 on the property she owned jointly with 
Mr P. This was for £588,250 over a term of five years. Interest was charged in the mortgage 
at 2.77% above Bank of England base rate. The funds were to repay an existing commercial 
mortgage, business financing, a personal loan, fees, and the final costs of a recently 
completed building project. Mr P was detailed on the application form as a manager and 
main contact for financial matters. In addition, he provided a personal guarantee for the loan.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs P decided to sell the mortgaged property and associated business. 
However, before they did, they decided to apply for planning permissions to enhance the 
propertys value and saleability. In addition, they needed to obtain permission from the local 
council planning department to remove the need for the residents of the property to work in 
the associated business. 
Subsequently, they also had to alter the on-site business facilities, which reduced the gross 
income by £2,000 each month. Between the reduced income and the costs associated with 
the permissions detailed above, Mr and Mrs P informed Atom in July 2019 that they werent 
going to be able to meet the contractual payments to the loan. They suggested that they pay 
the loan on an interest-only basis for twelve months from August 2019, but made up the full 
capital and interest payment for July during that time. Discussions were held and Atom 
partially agreed to Mr and Mrs Ps proposals  it allowed them to make up the July payment, 
but only agreed to a six-month period of interest-only payments.
In the meantime, Mr and Mrs P complained about delays in permissions for a utility company 
to install services on their property and having received threatening phone calls about the 
arrears on the account. 
On 13 August 2019 Atom acknowledged the complaint and confirmed that it had been 
escalated. There was comment on the matter of the utilities, which I wont detail as that issue 
is not part of the complaint. The letter also explained why Atom had contacted them about 
the arrears  that it needed to understand how they were going to pay them. It asked Mr and 
Mrs P to contact it. Included in the letter was a standard warning about the potential 
consequences of an account being in arrears:
We notify credit reference agencies about the status of your account every month. This 
includes telling them about any arrears (money that's owed and should have been paid 
earlier). They'll keep a record of this information for up to six years, which may affect your 
ability to obtain business credit in the future. 
Mr and Mrs P complained that Atom telling them about adverse information being recorded 
on their credit files was an attempt by Atom to intimidate them. 
Atom responded to the complaint on 22 August 2019. It said it was not its intention to cause 
stress by telephoning customers about arrears, and procedures were designed to enable it 
to understand the situation in order to help as best it can when a customer was in financial 
difficulties. It didnt uphold the complaint. 
Despite the payment arrangement being in place, Atom still wanted to be kept up to date on 
the sale of the property. Mr and Mrs P were telephoned in January 2020 for such an update. 
During the call they asked that the interest-only concession be extended for a further six 
months. Atom declined on the basis that the concession had been granted to allow 
Mr and Mrs P time to sell the property. As no acceptable offer had been made, there had 
been no change in the situation and it was likely that the position wouldnt have changed at 
the end of it. Atom confirmed that it would call again in a months time.  It did so and at that 
point, the interest-only concession was extended for a further three months.
Shortly thereafter the first lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic happened. Mr and Mrs P 
confirmed that the business run from the property the loan was secured on, couldnt actively 
trade. In line with government legislation, a payment holiday was granted for three months. 
This was later extended and in total, the loan had a payment holiday attached from March to 
August 2020. 
Starting in August 2020 there were discussions between Mr and Mrs P and Atom about what 
would happen at the end of the payment holiday. There were also discussions about a 
potential offer, which was significantly below the amount they were asking for the property. 
Mr and Mrs P explained that if they accepted the offer, by the time costs were paid, they 
wouldnt have enough equity from the property to ensure that they could buy a decent house 
to live in for the future. They asked that Atom reduce the amount it required to clear the loan 
to allow them to take a lower offer. Atom didnt agree at that point to reduce the settlement 
amount, as the potential sale value was significantly higher than the amount owing on the 
loan.
There were further discussions in August and September 2020 about the payments due to 
the mortgage from September 2020, as Mr and Mrs P were due to revert to paying the loan 
on a capital and interest basis. They said they couldnt afford to pay the full payments. They 
proposed that they pay £2,500 per month and Atom continue with forbearance until the 
property was sold. Atom explained that it could only consider further forbearance if there was 
some evidence of a road to recovery, as further arrangements might end up being to 
Mr and Mrs Ps detriment. However, if Mr and Mrs P wanted further forbearance, it would 
need to assess their situation and so would need documentation regarding their income and 
expenditure. Mr and Mrs P said they would provide the necessary documentation initially, 
then they said they werent sure they wanted to spend the time doing so would require. On 
the basis that Mr and Mrs P were asking for further forbearance, Atom agreed to a payment 
of just £2,500 for September 2020. It was during these discussions in September 2020 that 
Mr P told Atom that he was on medication because of how stressful he was finding the 
situation. Further discussions occurred in October 2020 about both the sale position and the payments 
to the loan. Mr and Mrs P asked that the term of the loan be extended to allow them more 
time to sell the property and make the monthly payments affordable. It was asked if 
Mr and Mrs P would consider reducing the asking price for the property  they said no as 
Atom wasnt willing to reduce the amount it wanted to repay the loan. Atom explained that as 
the asking price was considerably more than the amount needed to repay the loan. It 
wouldnt accept less than was owed on the loan. It was highlighted that if the property didnt 
sell, Atom might have to repossess the property and then Mr and Mrs P might get less 
money back. Atom asked Mr and Mrs P to share the business accounts and bank 
statements with it, to enable it to consider if it could provide further forbearance. 
Mr and Mrs P said they wouldnt do so unless Atom paid for it to happen, even though they 
wouldnt need to pay for the bank statements. They said they felt that being asked for this 
information was Atom making them jump through hoops and they were not willing to do so. 
They said that if Atom didnt agree to a further six months reduced payment arrangement of 
£2,500 per month, they would fight it through the courts because Atom wasnt willing to help 
them and they would also refer the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
However, following reviewing the situation further, Atom agreed to accept a reduced 
payment of £2,500 for October, November and December 2020. It confirmed that it would 
require Mr and Mrs P to pay the full capital and interest payments from January 2021. As 
Mr and Mrs P had asked that they not be called, Atom provided an email address for them to 
provide it with regular updates. The offer of the concession was confirmed in writing. 
On 13 October 2020 Atom issued another final response letter, this time responding to 
Mr and Mrs Ps concerns about Atom asking them to reduce the asking price and asking for 
back statements as supporting evidence for a reduced payment arrangement. Atom said that 
reducing the asking price was only a suggestion given how long the property had been on 
the market without any offers, but it hadnt told them to do so. It was also explained why it 
asked for evidence when discussing reduced payments. 
A further final response letter was issued on 14 October 2020 about the number and nature 
of the calls regarding the arrears situation. Atom set out the calls it had made to Mr P since 
November 2019; 17 in total over an 11-month period. As such, it didnt accept that there had 
been calls every three to four days as Mr P had alleged. It also again explained the purpose 
of the calls and confirmed that they were not meant to intimidate or harass Mr and Mrs P. It 
was also confirmed that some of the calls had been listened to and Atom was satisfied that 
the tone of the calls was professional, but friendly. 
Atom continued to ask for updates on the situation with the sale and discussions were again 
held about Atom reducing the amount it wanted to repay the loan. They again asked that 
Atom extend the term of the loan such that they would be able to afford to pay it off. They 
also asked that Atom continue to let them pay £2,500 each month until the income from the 
business allowed them to pay more. Mr and Mrs P told Atom that they thought it was being 
unsympathetic toward their situation, which had been caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, 
and that they didnt think that it had tried to help them.
Subsequently, Atom offered to reduce the amount it was willing to accept to repay the loan 
by £16,000. Mr and Mrs P accepted the reduction, and there was discussion about how this 
reduction would be applied  as either a deduction from the redemption amount or in the 
form of Atom paying some costs associated with the sale. Atom agreed to do whichever 
Mr and Mrs P preferred. Mr and Mrs P accepted the below asking price offer that had been 
made and the property was subsequently sold, and the loan repaid.When Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to this service, they set out their complaint in 
detail. This included descriptions about how they had felt bullied, intimidated, and harassed 
by the calls from Atom. In addition, they felt theyd been pressured into accepting the offer 
for the property. Whereas, if Atom had been sympathetic to the situation Covid-19 had put 
them in, the term of the loan would have been extended, which would have enabled them to 
get the business up and running again and so make more money from the sale. Mr P also 
provided a letter from his medical practitioner, which confirmed his mental health had 
deteriorated due to lockdown causing the failure of his business and the resultant reduced 
income.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He initially confirmed that, while he didnt think Mr and Mrs P wanted us to consider 
the matter of the permissions for the utilities works, even if they did, we would be unable to 
do so as theyd contacted us more than six months after Atom had sent them its final 
response to that complaint. As such, it fell outside our remit as it would have been referred 
too late. The investigator went on to consider how Atom had treated Mr and Mrs P, but he 
didnt think it had behaved unreasonably or treated them unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept the investigators conclusions. they said they felt that Atom had 
pushed them into serious financial consequences because of its threats and intimidation. 
They reiterate how they came to be in financial difficulties and their interactions with Atom 
thereafter, including that they believed Atom had bullied and intimidated them. They said that 
they received more calls from Atom that it had admitted to, but provided no evidence in the 
form of call logs or similar to support this statement. Mr and Mrs P said that the reduction 
Atom agreed to for settlement of the loan shouldnt be considered as it supporting them, but 
rather a final incentive to accept a huge reduction in selling price. They repeated that they 
believe that if Atom had extended the repayment date for the loan, they could have begun 
trading again and achieved a higher amount when the property and business was sold.
The investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ps further comments and responded to them. He 
wasnt persuaded to change his conclusion that Atom hadnt treated them unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs P responded to the investigators comments by repeating the circumstances that 
had prevented the sale of the property and expressed the belief that Atom had refused to 
understand why it wasnt possible. They reiterated their statements that Atom had been 
calling them weekly about the situation; asking the same questions and threatening them. 
They described the contact from Atom as a constant barrage of calls that made them 
threatening and intimidating.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ps loan is an unregulated commercial one. That means that Atom doesnt have to 
provide the same level of assistance and forbearance as it would if it was a regulated 
residential mortgage. However, even with a commercial loan, a lender is expected to treat 
the customer fairly. 
As such, we would expect a lender to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially 
if the problem that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and 
capable of being resolved. For long-term difficulties, a lender should look at other ways to 
help, such transferring a mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only or 
deferring interest for a period of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the 
lenders obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable, and will 
actually benefit the customer rather than just delay the inevitable. I would point out that a lender being expected to do what it can to help a customer doesnt mean that it has to agree 
to do whatever a consumer wants it to.
Mr and Mrs P have told us they decided to sell their property in 2018 and that it was on the 
market before they got into financial difficulties in 2019. They have set out that the financial 
difficulties were to do with the costs theyd expended to improve the sale prospects of the 
property and the reduction in the monthly income from the business, which would be a 
long-term situation. 
Atom agreed to allow Mr and Mrs P to pay the loan on an interest-only basis for six months 
to allow them time to sell the property. That unfortunately didnt happen, and Mr and Mrs P 
asked for a further six months on an interest-only basis. Atom declined that request as, 
without any clear evidence the situation was going to be resolved, or at least improved, 
within the period of any further period of forbearance, it would only be delaying the 
inevitable. I dont consider that Atoms approach at this point was inappropriate.
Quite what would have happened at that point cant be known as the Covid-19 pandemic hit 
and Atom was required by the government to allow payment holidays for customers that 
were detrimentally affected by circumstances. Atom initially granted a payment holiday of 
three months and extended that by three months, which is what it should have done.
Following the payment holiday, Atom wanted to know about what was happening with the 
sale of the property and Mr and Mrs Ps plans to pay the loan. While Mr and Mrs P said they 
had interest in the property, it didnt result in an offer and sale until early 2021. Atoms 
approach was that while it was willing to consider helping further, it needed to be persuaded 
that whatever it did was affordable and sustainable, and also that it would actually help. So 
when it asked for evidence about finances of the business, it wasnt unreasonable. While 
Mr and Mrs P thought this was Atom being difficult and making them jump through hoops, 
that was not the case and I cant find it was wrong to ask for supporting documentation. 
As for Atom accepting a reduced settlement amount for the loan, this is usually something 
that would only be done if the property couldnt be sold for enough to repay the loan. That 
wasnt the case here and, although ultimately Atom did accept a reduced settlement, I dont 
consider it needed to do so, or that it was wrong to not do so when Mr and Mrs P initially 
asked it to. 
Ultimately, Atom allowed Mr and Mrs P a period of interest-only payments, a payment 
holiday, further time where they were paying considerably less than the amount they were 
required to under the contract, and reduced the redemption figure for the loan. I know that 
Mr and Mrs P dont think that Atom did enough to help them, but I cant find that was the 
case. I think it showed patience with Mr and Mrs Ps situation and provided a significant 
amount of forbearance, especially after the payment holiday period.
Mr and Mrs P have said that they think Atom should have extended the term of the loan to 
allow them to rebuild their business and sell for more money. I can understand them having 
wanted this. However, as Atom pointed out to Mr and Mrs P it would have needed to be 
confident that the business would get up and running again, which given it had been unable 
to support the loan before the pandemic, was questionable. Atom had to weigh the 
possibilities for the business against the fact that the potential that the debt to it would 
increase. In the circumstances, I cant find that Atom was wrong not to extend the term of the 
loan, as there was no clear evidence it would assist Mr and Mrs P and there was a 
significant possibility it would make their situation worse. 
I now turn to the matter of the contact Atom made with Mr and Mrs P about their financial 
difficulties. I would firstly explain that we would expect a lender to keep in contact with a customer in financial difficulties to monitor the situation and be able to react in a timely 
manner if the lender was able to provide help, or to bring matters to a resolution if it was 
clear that nothing could be done and it was best for the customer. While Mr P has recalled 
that he received many more calls than Atom has said it made, hes been unable to provide 
any evidence of this. I also note that the sequence of the calls provided by Atom matches 
within a few days with the dates that Mr P was told Atom would be contacting him for its next 
update. Based on the evidence I have seen, I dont consider that Atom contacted Mr P with 
an unreasonable frequency or inappropriately. I certainly dont consider that it could be 
considered that Atom was harassing Mr and Mrs P with the number of calls they received.
 
Mr and Mrs P have said that they think Atom telling them that arrears could be recorded on 
their credit files was an attempt to intimidate them. They have also said that this was the 
reason Atom wanted to speak to the estate agents and Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors. It is always 
a matter of personal perception as to how another partys actions are taken. I dont make 
light of Mr and Mrs Ps perception in this matter or how it made them feel, but I must take an 
objective view of the matter. 
It is a requirement for regulated mortgages for a consumer to be made aware of the 
consequences of arrears and it was entirely appropriate for Atom to apply the same 
approach to Mrs Ps commercial loan. While I understand that having this pointed out to 
them wouldnt have been pleasant, given the situation, but I cant find that Atom was wrong 
to do so or that it was doing so for the wrong reason; to intimidate or threaten them. Nor do I 
think that the request to speak to the estate agents or the solicitor dealing with the matter 
was designed to embarrass or intimidate Mr and Mrs P. Its not unusual in cases were the 
resolution of a difficult situation involves independent professionals for a lender to want to 
speak to them to get the fullest picture it can.
While I know that Mr and Mrs P wont agree, I dont consider that Atom acted inappropriately 
in its handling of their loan or that it behaved unfairly toward them.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision 
before 21 October 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman