DRN-1700806
The complaint
Mr M complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot) has reported 
inaccurate information about a debt it acquired from another business. 
What happened
Cabot acquired a debt in Mr Ms name from another business in August 2017. Cabot 
reported a default on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the debt it acquired. 
Cabot reported that the default balance was £7,148 and the default date was 24 June 2014. 
Mr M repaid the outstanding balance and Cabot marked the debt as satisfied on 19 February 
2018.
In November 2019 Mr M complained to Cabot as both it and the original lender were 
reporting defaults relating to the same debt. Mr M said that the information Cabot reported 
should reflect the balance in August 2017, when it acquired the debt. The balance at that 
time was £4,058.22. Mr M has advised that he feels it is unfair that he has two defaults on 
his credit file in relation to one debt. 
Cabot responded on 23 December 2019 and said its entry on Mr Ms credit file reflected the 
account opening date along with the date the account was terminated and defaulted. Cabot 
said that the original lender should have either removed its entry or marked the account as 
settled on 3 July 2017.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They didnt 
ask Cabot to amend the information it reports about Mr M and he asked to appeal. In 
response to the investigator Mr M explained that he thought it was wrong that both the 
original lender and Cabot were reporting details of his debt. As Mr M asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand why Mr M has referred his complaint to us and why he feels its unfair to 
have both entries on his credit report. But, in this decision Im only able to talk about Cabots 
actions. I cant comment directly on what the original lender has done or reported. 
When a business acquires a debt, it takes on the obligation to report up to date information 
about it. So, when Mr Ms debt was acquired by Cabot it assumed the reporting duties from 
that point on. 
Mr M complains that the information Cabot reports is wrong because it reflects the original 
default balance, not the balance that it acquired in 2017. I take Mr Ms point, but the credit 
report asks for specific information and dates. It doesnt ask for the date the debt was 
transferred to Cabot and it doesnt ask what the balance was on that date. The credit report 
asks what the date of default was and what the default balance was. 
Cabot has correctly reported that Mr M defaulted on 24 June 2014 with a balance of £7,148. 
It has also correctly reported that Mr M repaid the outstanding balance on 19 February 2018. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but Im satisfied the information Cabot has reported is accurate, 
so Im not telling it to make any changes. 
Mr M complains that both Cabot and the original lender have reported defaults and that he 
feels this is unfair. Mr M sent us a copy of his credit report to show both entries. I recently 
asked our investigator to obtain some information from the credit reference agency that 
issued Mr Ms report. Our investigator asked how businesses report debts that have been 
acquired by a new owner. As Ive said above, this complaint only relates to Cabot and its 
actions. Ive set out the key points the credit reference agency made below:
- When a debt is sold, the original lender will normally update the status of the account 
to show as settled. 
- It is normal practice for the original lender to continue to report the satisfied debt, 
even after it has been acquired by another business. 
- There is no requirement on the original lender to stop reporting information about a 
debt that was acquired by a new business which is also reporting information about 
the debt. 
The credit reference agency has said that both the original lender and business that acquires 
a debt can record separate entries on a borrowers credit file. So, whilst I understand Mr Ms 
concerns, Im satisfied that Cabots decision to record a default on his credit file was 
reasonable and in line with the way the credit reference agencies operate. As Ive said 
above, Im satisfied that the information Cabot has reported is accurate. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but, for the reasons Ive given above, I havent found grounds to 
tell Cabot to change the information it reports. As I havent found that Cabot has made an 
error and Im satisfied it dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman