DRN-2610030
The complaint
Mr B complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited have refused to deal with his 
claims under Section 75 of the CCA. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr B, via his representative, made two claims to Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited (Omni) saying that the benefits of his solar panel array and battery storage system 
were misrepresented to him by the installer, who Ill call E. As Mr B paid for both items with 
credit obtained from Omni, he considered they were equally liable for any 
misrepresentations made at the time of sale. 
As Mr B did not receive a response from Omni, he notified this service, and we let Omni 
know that Mr B was unhappy that they had not responded to his claims.  
As the matter wasnt resolved, the case became reviewable by this service. When supplying 
its case file Omni said it did not accept that it was liable for any misrepresentation as the 
finance had been arranged by a second company, who Ill call M, who were acting as credit 
intermediaries, and this broke the necessary DCS agreement.
   
Our investigators reviewed the case and concluded that there was a DCS agreement in 
place, but did not agree that the panels and battery were misrepresented to Mr B. 
Omni continued to disagree that it had any liability under Section 75, and Mr B or his 
representative did not respond. 
As the case could not be resolved informally, the case has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 (s56) and s75 of the CCA. S75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or service bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor.
S56 is relevant because it says that any negotiations between Mr B and the supplier are 
deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Omni. 
DCS agreement 
As Mr B obtained credit from Omni to pay for the panels and battery, s56 and s75 could be 
relevant here. But there are certain technical criteria that must be met for a s75 claim to be 
valid. One of those is that there must be a DCS agreement in place.  This means that the 
creditor (Omni) must provide credit that finances a transaction between the debtor (Mr B) 
and the supplier. 
Omni have argued that as M were involved in the arrangement of the credit and E were the 
supplier, this DCS agreement has been broken. But I disagree. 
The evidence shows that Mr B approached E for quotes, he asked about finance and M 
became involved, and loans with Omni were then arranged.  Mr B paid a deposit to E, and 
the balance was paid via the finance to M. 
Ive taken account of the Home Improvement Quotation & Customer Contract that Mr B 
signed. This is headed with Ms logo, includes Es details as installer, and makes it clear that 
the contract Mr B has entered into is with M. The terms and conditions also include the 
following. 
As such I think Mr B entered into contracts with M to supply his solar panels and battery, 
financed by Omni.
 
Its clear Omni have a relationship with M and were aware of its role in arranging finance and 
entering into contracts to supply and carry out home improvement works, albeit with a third 
party actually carrying out the work.  
It follows that as Omni knew about and were happy with these arrangements, Im satisfied 
that a pre-existing agreement exists in this instance.
 
Misrepresentation  
For a successful misrepresentation claim, I would need to be satisfied that at the time of 
buying the panels and battery Mr B was given information by the suppliers representatives 
that they knew to be untrue and that this misrepresentation induced Mr B to enter into the 
contract, which then caused him a financial loss. 
In Mr Bs initial submissions to Omni, he stated he was told that the battery would pay for 
itself in 6 years, due to the savings the system would make a profit over 10 years, and the 
battery would save him 50% off his electricity bills. He said these statements proved untrue 
and had been used to persuade him to sign up for and proceed with the installation. 
Similarly, he says misrepresentations were made about the likely performance and benefits 
of the panels with the same purpose.  
 
However, as part of its file of papers Omni has supplied emails from E, which confirm that Mr 
B contacted E both times, to ask for quotes for the installation of the relevant items. E have 
also stated that they did not attend Mr Bs property prior to the installation of the panels and 
battery, they simply provided him with quotes, which he accepted, and they attended his 
property only to carry out the installations.
  
Ive also considered the paperwork supplied by Mr B relating to the sale, these include his 
credit agreements, invoices, contracts and customer satisfaction notes.  But there is no sales 
literature or any other information giving details about the possible benefits of the battery and 
panels.  If Mr B had been relying on any discussion with E about the benefits of the items to 
decide whether to proceed, I would expect that to form part of the email chain, or for there to 
be papers setting out what he could expect. That there is no mention of these, to my mind 
supports the argument that Es role in the sale was simply to provide a quote for the work Mr 
B had already decided he wanted, and subsequently the installation.  As such I am unable to 
conclude that Mr B was induced into either contract as a result of any misrepresentation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman