DRN-2860763
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc made a payment of £3,420 from his account to a 
beneficiary instead of £34.20 as Mr M intended. He also complains he was given incorrect 
information from the HSBC helpline. 
 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr M scheduled three payments from his HSBC account to a third party, W. 
The first payment went through on 3 February. When Mr M checked his account, he 
discovered £3,420 had been taken instead of £34.20 which he had expected. Mr M called 
HSBC to ask it to recover the money. He also asked HSBC to confirm if there were any other 
payments set up for the incorrect amount. Mr M said he set the payments up using the 
mobile banking app which automatically inserted the decimal point. In order to make the 
mistake he said he wouldve had to have added additional zeros. He said HSBC had made 
an error. Mr M said HSBC told him the specialist team would refund the money and that no 
other payments had been set up incorrectly. 
Mr M said he didnt receive a call back and after checking the payment schedule Mr M found 
a further payment for the wrong amount was also scheduled. He complained to the bank. 
In its final response HSBC said there had been a user error and Mr M had input the incorrect 
amount when he set up the payments. It accepted it failed to call Mr M back and credited his 
account with £30 as compensation. Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his 
complaint to this service. 
When our service contacted HSBC it reviewed its response and offered Mr M an additional 
£50 in compensation for giving him the wrong information on the phone. Mr M declined this 
offer. Our investigator concluded that evidence provided by HSBC indicated the incorrect 
payment amount had been set up due to a user error. The investigator also considered the 
total compensation offered of £80 to be fair and reasonable. 
Mr M did not accept the investigators view. He was adamant he didnt use a different 
method to access his bank account. He said he doesn't own a computer and can't use a 
system to access online banking other than the mobile banking on his phone. Therefore, he 
said, he can't accept that he made an error in setting up the payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I consider £80 to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.  
I can see Mr M and HSBC disagree about how the payment error occurred. Its my role to 
decide what I think is more likely than not to have occurred. So, while Im not disputing what 
Mr M has said I am more persuaded by the technical evidence provided by HSBC that the 
payment errors were user generated. 
In its response to this service HSBC said on a tablet or mobile device the entry for a 
payment backfills from pence to pounds. It said by inputting 3-4-2-0 this would equate to 
£34.20. By inputting 3-4-2-0-0-0 this would result in £3420.00. HSBC provided screen shots 
of the payments set up on the banks system and went on to say:
The fact that there is no inputter ID and the fact it says Transaction Source INBANK 
means these were purely internet banking actions  there was no involvement from 
HSBC staff.
I note in the email from FOS the customer states he set them up using the Mobile 
app to set these payments up, but he actually used the Online Banking website. The 
way we set up payments on the two platforms are different. For example, on Online 
Banking you would type the amount and manually input a decimal point and add any 
pence. For Mobile Banking, the decimal point is already there and in a fixed position, 
so you have to type the numbers around the decimal point, and the numbers start 
from pence and move from right to left. ... The decimal point cant be moved on the 
App. The customer switches between both mobile and Online Banking, so this could 
be the confusion.
Just prior to setting up these payments, he deleted two existing beneficiaries from his 
payees list. There were no major Online Banking issues/mobile banking issues on 
that day.
 
Mr M is adamant that the incorrect amount paid was not a result of user error. He's said the 
only way he could've input the incorrect amount using mobile banking, would be to add two 
additional zeros on the end of the amount and he's certain he wouldn't do this.
As explained by HSBC, Mr M is correct in that as the mobile app back fills the numbers he 
would need to put in would include the additional zeros. But I think it likely that, as noted on 
the screenshots provided by HSBC, these particular payments were set up by online 
banking, not mobile banking; online/internet banking being through a browser, mobile 
banking being through an app. Mr M said he doesnt have a working computer, but it is 
possible to do online/internet banking through the browser on a phone or tablet.
HSBC offered a further £50 on top of the original compensation of £30 as it accepted it had 
given Mr M incorrect information. I can see it did give him the wrong information and Im 
pleased to see HSBC increase its offer. Mr M is concerned about what could have happened 
had the further payments gone out of his account. I can see this situation caused Mr M some 
worry, and hes found it quite stressful, which is understandable. But I do think it likely the 
error was user generated and the amounts were corrected following the initial payment error. 
I can see that HSBC did give Mr M incorrect information, but he hasnt told us he has 
suffered a financial loss and generally we dont look at what might have happened.
HSBC has suggested Mr M sets up standing orders so that he can avoid possible errors in 
the future. I think this is sensible.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already paid Mr M £30 and has made an offer to pay an additional 
£50 to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is 
that HSBC should pay the additional £50 if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman