DRN-3220397
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and closed his account, withheld his funds
and loaded a marker against him on the National Fraud Database. Hed like the funds
returned, his bank accounts reopened and the marker removed.
What happened
Mr S had three accounts with Santander  two current and one savings account.
Mr S also has an account with a third party bank Ill call B. On the 5 August 2020 Mr S
received a payment into his account of just over 15,000 euros from a business Ill call F. On
the same day two payments of £11,657.90 and £2,039 were transferred out of Mr Ss
account with B into two of his accounts with Santander.
The £11,657.90 was received into Mr Ss top up account and immediately moved, in four
payments, to his basic account. Using these funds Mr S then made a payment of £3,000 to
an external payee and attempted to transfer out the remainder to the same payee on the
6 August 2020 however this was rejected.
The £2,039 was transferred into Mr Ss savings account  and then later the same day it was
transferred out to one of Mr Ss external accounts.
On the 6 August 2020 Santander received a report from B to say that the two transfers into
Mr Ss account accounts were fraudulent.
The bank restricted Mr Ss access to his account and asked him for details about the
payments. He explained that a friend had paid him money to buy materials  but hes not
been able to buy them because he cant access the funds.
Santander didnt accept Mr Ss explanation so decided to close his account with immediate
notice on the 17 August 2020, withheld his remaining funds and loaded a marker against him 
on the National Fraud Database.
Mr S wasnt happy with Santanders response so brought his complaint to our service. He
wanted the marker removed, his funds returned and his accounts restored.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. She asked Mr S for more evidence 
regarding the payments he received and he provided a copy of an invoice to a business Ill
call F  which he explained was owned by his friend  and a number of screenshots which
he explained showed payments hed made to purchase materials. But, on reviewing the
evidence she didnt think it was sufficient to show Mr S was entitled to the funds  and didnt
uphold his complaint.
Mr S was disappointed in our investigators conclusion  and in response said:
Hed provided evidence to show his entitlement to funds.
His account with B was closed because it was being used for business purposes and 
not because of fraudulent activity.
As Mr S didnt accept our investigators conclusions its been passed to me for a decision.
On reviewing Mr Ss complaint I reached the same conclusion as our investigator however I 
expanded on the reasoning.
I issued my Provisional Decision to both parties on 1 December 2021 and gave them until 
15 December 2021 to reply  Santander accepted my decision. But Mr S didnt reply, so Ive 
reconsidered my decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Fraud marker:
The marker that Santander have recorded on the National Fraud Database is intended to
record that theres been a misuse of facility  relating to using the account to receive
fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, theyre not required to prove beyond
reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but they must show that
there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The relevant guidelines say:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent
funds have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through.
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an
illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in order to
receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who
was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a marker, the bank must carry out checks
of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the account
holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand their
level of knowledge and intention.
I need to assess whether Santander had sufficient evidence to meet the burden of proof to
load a marker, and if the evidence demonstrates complicity. Im satisfied it does and I say
this because:
Ive seen evidence that Santander were notified the funds Mr S received into his
account on the 5 August 2020 were marked as fraudulent.
Mr S hasnt been able to provide any evidence from F to show the business agreed
to pay him just over 15,000 euros.
The funds were initially paid by F to Mr Ss account with B  then transferred over, in 
the form of two payments, to two of Mr Ss accounts with Santander. At this point there were further inter account transfers of varying amounts. I find it surprising, 
considering Mr S says he needed the money to be paid to his Santander account to 
purchase the goods, that the invoice didnt ask for payment directly into his 
Santander account. I also think the amount of transfers is unusual  two separate 
payments were made from Mr Ss account with B and once arriving in Mr Ss 
accounts with Santander, five further inter account transfers were made.
Mr S has explained that the funds were needed to purchase materials  which hes 
provided an invoice for. Hes explained that he needed the funds to be in one of his 
Santander accounts because thats linked to a card he has with a third party 
business, which automatically takes the funds from his Santander account. However, 
prior to the block being put on his account, and on the same day hed received the 
funds, he transferred £3,000 of the credited funds to an external account. Mr S also 
attempted to transfer a further amount of £8,655 to the same payee the next day 
however this transfer was rejected.
Mr S has provided screenshot evidence of payments made to a number of firms 
which match those listed in the invoice. However, the amounts paid dont match the 
values included in the invoices and the screenshots dont show whos account the 
payments were taken from or the date they were completed. For such large 
transactions Id expect Mr S to be able to provide more detailed documentation. Mr S 
hasnt provided any evidence that these goods were purchased or delivered, 
including order or delivery receipts.
Mr S has explained that hes a director of a nutrition business which is a global 
brand Ill call M  so he doesnt understand why Santander are suggesting hes been 
involved in fraud. Although Mr S has explained he runs a successful business theres 
no indication that the area M operates is linked with the funds Mr S received. The 
invoice Mr S has provided says he was purchasing household items including 
furniture  which doesnt appear to have any connection to his nutrition business.
For the reasons Ive outlined above Im satisfied that Mr S was likely complicit in the fraud,
and therefore Santander were entitled to load a marker on the National Fraud Database.
Account block and withholding of funds:
Ive also considered whether the bank acted fairly in restricting Mr Ss access and
withholding his funds. On the 6 August 2020 Santander blocked Mr Ss access to his
account, and sent him a letter regarding the larger of the two credits into his accounts.
Santander have certain legal and regulatory obligations they need to comply with  and Im
satisfied on being notified about the fraudulent credit entering Mr Ss account they were
within their rights to block and withhold Mr Ss funds. As Ive already explained Mr S has
provided proof of entitlement for the funds, however Santander havent accepted this
evidence. For the reasons Ive previously outlined - when considering the negative marker -  
Im not satisfied that Mr S has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate hes entitled to 
the funds therefore I wont be asking the bank to release them to him.
Account closure
Mr Ss accounts were closed without notice on the 17 August 2020. Its accepted that a bank
is entitled to close any account with 60 days notice, however theres certain criteria
Santander needs to follow when closing an account with immediate notice. Having looked at
the terms and conditions of Mr Ss accounts Im satisfied that the bank were entitled to close
his accounts with immediate notice. Therefore I wont be asking Santander to reopen his
accounts.For the reasons Ive outlined above Im not currently thinking of asking Santander to do
anything further here.
Responses to my provisional decision:
Santander accepted and had nothing to add to my provisional decision but Mr S didnt reply 
or accept my decision. As Ive not been provided with any further evidence or arguments to 
consider, I see no reason to change the outcome reached in my provisional decision. 
In summary I dont think Santander need to do anything further here. 
My final decision
Mr final decision is I dont uphold is this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman