DRN-2842095
The complaint
I, a limited company, complains that Clegg Gifford & Co Limited (trading as Clegg Gifford 
Insurance Brokers) didnt provide it with its claims experience and claims log for its 
commercial motor insurance policy in reasonable time. It wants compensation for not being 
able to find cheaper cover elsewhere. This complaint is brought on Is behalf by its director, 
Mr C. 
What happened
Mr C said Clegg Gifford didnt provide him with Is claims information with his renewal 
documents. So he wasnt able to look for alternative cover at renewal. He said this caused 
him to lose business. 
Clegg Gifford agreed that it should have issued I with its claims experience earlier. It 
apologised and offered £125 compensation for this. And it said the claims log was provided 
after renewal because of the underwriters delay. But Mr C was unhappy with this. He 
thought both documents should be sent with the renewal invitation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt see any 
evidence of financial loss caused by Clegg Giffords error. And so he thought its offer of 
£125 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr C replied that he was caused stress and anxiety. He said his employees had been at risk. 
He said his right to shop around for cover had been withdrawn. He asked for £5,000 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration. Hes explained that he needed the claims experience 
and claims log in order to seek alternative cover. Despite his chasing Clegg Gifford, the latter 
was provided a day after his renewal. And Clegg Gifford has agreed that it should have 
provided these documents earlier.
When a business makes a mistake, as Clegg Gifford accepts it has done here, we expect it 
to put things right, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had 
on the complainant. In this case the complainant is a business. And, although I can 
understand Mr Cs upset, I cant award compensation for a limited companys distress. 
Instead, I can look at the inconvenience caused it and any financial losses it incurred as a 
result of the error.
Mr C described a potential loss of business and potential job losses due to the error. But I 
can only consider any actual losses, not potential losses. These losses didnt actually occur. 
So I cant consider these further.
Mr C said he was deprived of the opportunity to shop around for cheaper cover elsewhere. 
But hes not provided any evidence of lower premiums that he was offered but couldnt 
accept due to the lack of the two documents. So I cant say that Clegg Gifford needs to 
compensate I for this.
Clegg Gifford offered I £125 compensation for the inconvenience caused by its error. I think 
thats in keeping with what Id require in similar situations. So I dont require Clegg Gifford to 
increase this.
Mr C wanted an increased level of compensation to stop this error recurring. But its not our 
role to punish businesses. Mr C also wanted Clegg Gifford to change its procedures so the 
same thing didnt happen to others. 
I can understand this and agree that it would be good practice for it to send all the 
documents at once with the renewal invitation. But Clegg Giffords procedures arent 
something that this service would normally interfere with as they are a legitimate exercise of 
its commercial judgement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman