DRN-4315096
The complaint
Mr B complains MotoNovo Finance Limited (Motonovo) supplied him with a car which he 
believes wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply. 
What happened
In August 2022, Mr B entered into a 24 month hire purchase agreement for a new car. Its 
cash price was £2,950. It was over 12 years old and had covered over 75,100 miles. Mr B 
was requirement to make monthly payments of £139.
In January 2023, the car broke down and it was found that the electrical control unit (ECU) 
was broken and it needed to be replaced. Mr B complained to Motonovo.
They arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out which said the ECU had failed 
due to water ingress. It concluded as the car had travelled over 1,000 miles since Mr B 
acquired it, the fault wouldnt have been present at supply therefore it wasnt the selling 
agents responsibility. Based on these findings, Motonovo didnt uphold the complaint. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr B referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. Based on the conclusions of the independent 
inspection, she concluded the car was of satisfactory quality at supply. She said the car 
wouldnt have been able to cover that amount of miles had the fault been present when Mr B 
acquired the car.
Mr B disagreed and maintained his position, commenting the ECU was badly corroded. He 
said he had paid almost £400 for the repair and had been without the car for some time, so 
he wanted Motonovo to reimburse him for the same. He also questioned where the water 
wouldve come from as there was a hose pipe ban at the time but there was frost in January 
2023 which is when the problem became apparent.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I will explain why. 
Mr B acquired a car under a regulated credit agreement. Motonovo was the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about the 
supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the 
age and mileage at the time of supply, the cars history, safety, durability, etc.
In this case, Mr B acquired a car that was over 12 years old and had travelled over 75,100 
miles. As this was a used car with considerable mileage and age, its reasonable to expect 
parts may already have suffered substantial wear and tear when compared to a new car or 
one that is less travelled.
Based on the evidence of the breakdown report and the inspection report, its clear there 
was a fault with the ECU. There is no dispute about that. However I need to determine 
whether that fault meant the car was of satisfactory quality when Mr B acquired it. Having 
done so, I believe the car was.  
I say this because of the conclusions of the independent inspection report. Im not an expert 
in car mechanics so I find its reasonable for me to rely on the findings of the same as it was 
carried out by a professional mechanic with the relevant qualifications, knowledge and 
expertise. The report confirmed the ECU fault was caused by water ingress and that 
developed after Mr B acquired it. I note Mr Bs questions as to how water couldve got into 
the car. Neither the breakdown report nor the inspection report has commented on this so 
Im unable to say. But just because the source of the water cant be determined that doesnt 
mean the ECU fault was present or developing at supply. 
Like the engineer who carried out the inspection, on balance Im not persuaded Mr B 
wouldve been able to cover that amount of miles had the fault been present at supply. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the car was of satisfactory quality when Mr B 
acquired it. I consider the ECU fault to be a wear and tear issue. Therefore I wont be asking 
Motonovo to reimburse Mr B for the cost of the repairs. I appreciate Mr B will be 
disappointed by my outcome but I hope he accepts my findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman