DRN-3964707
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc required him to attend a branch and about how it treated 
him when he attended that branch.
What happened
Mr S says he spoke to TSB about his account, and it told him he needed to attend a branch 
in December 2020. He says that visit was not needed and at the time he and his daughter 
were shielding due to covid. Mr S says he was treated badly by TSB staff when he attended. 
In summary he says he was threatened and that some staff were not wearing required 
masks. Mr S would like substantial compensation. 
TSB accepts it could have given Mr S alternative options that would have prevented him 
attending a branch. It has apologised for its mistake and says its paid £225 compensation 
which it says is appropriate. TSB says it no longer has video footage of the branch visit due 
to the time that has elapsed.
Mr S brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought TSB had dealt appropriately 
with it by paying a fair and reasonable compensation amount. The investigator didnt think it 
possible to say what took place in branch.
Mr S doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that TSB has paid an appropriate 
compensation amount and has fairly apologised for what took place. I appreciate Mr S will 
be disappointed by my decision and appreciate, having listened to the telephone calls 
between him and this service, how strongly he feels about what took place.
There is no question here that TSB ought to have given Mr S alternatives to him attending a 
branch. I have read of the concerns Mr S had about covid due to his daughters medical 
position and have no doubt he was caused distress and inconvenience in attending the 
branch. I can see neither Mr S nor his daughter tested positive for covid as a result of the 
branch visit but accept their concerns. I think the important point is that TSB has fairly 
apologised for what took place and for not providing Mr S with alternatives.
The key question for me to consider about that part of the complaint is the compensation 
level. Our role is not to punish a business but to consider what is a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount. I dont think Mr S suffered any real financial loss and dont think there 
were any medical consequences as a result of attending the branch. But have made clear 
that I accept he was concerned about that possibility. For those reasons Im satisfied TSB 
has paid a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £225 and I cant fairly order it to pay 
over a thousand compensation as Mr S suggests.
The second part of Mr Ss complaint is about what took place in the branch in December 
2020. As Mr S knows there is no video footage for me to review due to the time period 
between the attendance and Mr S making his complaint. Both sides give conflicting views 
about what took place, and I cant be sure if there were any medical reasons that prevented 
a TSB staff member not wearing a mask even if I was sure a mask wasnt worn. I hope Mr S 
appreciates that its impossible to be sure what took place in the branch in these 
circumstances and unfair to favour one account over another. It follows that I cant fairly 
conclude TSB staff acted as Mr S says or award compensation based on what Mr S says 
about the events in branch.
I accept Mr S will be unhappy with this decision, but this now brings an end to what we in 
trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman