DRN-2972699
The complaint
Miss M has complained about her motor insurer, U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in respect of 
repairs completed to her car after a driver drove into the back of it.
What happened
Miss M was involved in an accident in June 2020. She obtained an estimate for repair of her 
car from a nearby garage. Miss M called UKI to register the claim and it told her it would 
usually appoint a repair garage from its network of repairers  but noting she had already got 
an estimate UKIs representative asked if shed prefer to use that garage. Miss M said she 
would. UKI then spoke with the garage, agreed terms for the repair and authorised that work.
 
Miss Ms car went to the garage for repair on 25 June 2020. On 9 July 2020 Miss M told UKI 
she had concerns about the repair. UKI said it wasnt liable for the repair work because she 
had used a garage of her choice. Miss M felt damage had been done to the rear left wing of 
her car, where it meets the bumper, and the bumper had needed replacing due to the 
accident. Miss M sent UKI photos of her car before the crash and obtained an expert report. 
The expert said there was sign of a poor repair to the wing  but he didnt say when this had 
been done.
 
UKI noted the expert report. Its own engineer said the garage had confirmed it hadnt 
repaired this area, and that the poor work in question had been done during a previous 
repair. It provided photos of the area, taken on 9 July 2020. UKIs engineer thought they 
showed ingrained dirt in the repair site, suggesting this was not a new repair. UKIs engineer 
also said that the poor paint finish on the wing, if it had been done by the garage, would look 
similar to the bumper replacement (the replacement part for which seemingly must also have 
been painted). UKI maintained it had no liability for the repairs and, in any event, felt it hadnt 
been shown that the garage caused the problems Miss M was concerned about. 
Miss M complained to this service. In doing so she sent us copies of the photos shed 
submitted to UKI. She explained that she is in the habit of closely inspecting her vehicle and 
regularly taking photos of it to evidence its overall condition as she often uses valet parking, 
leaving her car in secure parking facilities whilst she is out of the country. She said its 
inconceivable that if this poor repair had been there before it would have gone unnoticed. 
Our investigator felt that as Miss Ms expert couldnt be sure when the poor repair was done, 
and whilst UKIs engineer felt it was pre-existing, it wouldnt be fair to take more note of the 
photographic evidence. She didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss M was unhappy. She explained that she couldnt get evidence from the garage to show 
what repairs had been done, because it just referred her back to UKI. And UKI hadnt shown 
her evidence of what was done either. She said it was also of note to her that there were no 
detailed photos or video of her car as a whole on the day the garage took it in for repair, so 
there is no record of this allegedly previous poor repair being noted before the garage 
worked on her car. 
The complaint came to me to consider and I felt that UKI was fairly and reasonably 
responsible for the problem Miss M had encountered. I issued a provisional decision, my 
findings from which were:
Having done so Im minded to make UKI pay to rectify the poor work subject of this 
complaint  that being the poor paintwork and blob of filler present in the area where the 
base of the left rear wing and the top of the left-hand end of the rear bumper meet. Ive set 
out my reasons for this view below and both parties will have chance to respond before 
I make a final decision. 
Im mindful that whilst the policy says UKI wont be responsible for works completed by a 
policyholders chosen garage, UKI did not highlight this fact to Miss M when it asked her if 
she wanted to use her own garage. UKI didnt tell her what this might mean. So I dont think 
it allowed her to make a fully informed decision about how best to proceed with her claim. 
I also dont think its fair for UKI to seek to rely on a strict interpretation of what the policy 
says in order to have limited its liability in the circumstances at hand here. If Miss M had 
contracted with her chosen garage in order to complete the repair, with UKI then merely 
paying the garage for that work, then Id agree with UKI that it has no liability for the work 
carried out or what happened to Miss Ms car whilst it was in the care of that garage. But that 
is not what happened here. Here UKI contracted with the garage to do that work  UKI is 
named as the work provider on the repair sheet and UKI itself argues that the garage, in 
the event it felt any amendment to the agreed repairs was needed, had to seek authorisation 
from it before doing that work. All of which means Miss M has no contract for works with the 
garage and, consequently, no route of direct recourse against the garage, whilst UKI did 
have a contract with the garage for repair of the car and was in control of that process. In 
those circumstances Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to say UKI is liable for anything the 
garage did.
I havent seen the exact agreement between UKI and the garage for repairs. But I dont 
think, given the detail of the crash and post incident photos, that UKI would likely have 
instructed the garage to repair the area of poor work in question here. I say that because 
that area did not seem to be affected by the crash. But Im not actually persuaded that 
matters much. The question for me is was this area of poor repair likely completed by the 
garage; if I think it was it doesnt matter much whether that was work UKI authorised or not.
Miss Ms expert is clear that there is poor work. But he doesnt make any finding about when 
this might have occurred, although he does note theres no sign of any previous major 
structural repairs to the car. Likewise, UKIs engineer seems to accept there has been a 
poor repair. But UKIs engineer has said when they think this occurred  that it likely 
pre-existed the garages repair.
The garage does not seem to have taken photos or a video showing the overall condition of 
Miss Ms car when it took custody of it. Whilst not every garage does that, in the process of 
most insurance claims it would be usual for an initial inspection to take place and any 
pre-existing and non-incident related damage to be highlighted and noted. Ive not seen 
anything like this from the garage here. And whilst there are photos of the area Miss M has 
complained about ,which are labelled as showing previous poor repair, these are dated 
9 July 2020, the same day Miss M complained. So they arent, of themselves, persuasive 
evidence that this damage existed before the repair began (which seems to have been 
25 June 2020). 
In support of what the photos from the garage show, UKIs engineer has said there is 
ingrained dirt and the poor paint work doesnt look like the finish on the bumper. I cant see, 
from the photos UKI has provided that there is ingrained dirt in the area. And even if there is, 
Im not sure why this couldnt have formed during the course of the garages repairs. Im not persuaded by the logic of what UKIs engineer has said about the paint work. I agree that if 
the panel for the rear wing and the bumper had been painted as part of the same process, 
they would likely exhibit similar finishing characteristics, possibly similar flaws. But the fact 
the rear wing looks like it has undergone a different process, perhaps using different 
materials, doesnt mean its most likely the garage didnt do this work. It looks to me like a 
small area of the rear wing has been touched up, so it would be unlikely to have gone 
through the same process as a total bumper spray.
Ive also considered Miss Ms before photos. I accept that sometimes the angle of photos 
and aspects like the light they were taken in, can influence what is captured by the image. 
So the fact Miss Ms photos dont seem to show the poor paint finish and filler, isnt 
conclusive proof they werent present. But the before images, in my view, do suggest, on 
balance, this poor repair wasnt present before the garage took the car for repair. 
Added to that, I take on board what Miss M has said about inspecting her car regularly and 
taking photos. What she says sounds plausible and does give me cause to think shed be 
more likely to spot issues like this than many motorists would be  many might only notice 
something like this once its been highlighted by the fact of other work having been done. 
Putting together the evidence and testimony Miss M has provided, set in light of the limited 
evidence presented by the garage in support of its contention that it did not do this work, 
along with the comments from UKI, Im minded to think the poor repair was not present when 
the garage took custody. On balance Im satisfied that Miss Ms car, after UKI completed 
work to repair it following the accident, had a poor repair which it didnt have before. It 
follows that I think UKI should have this poor work; ie poor paint finish and a blob of filler on 
the rear wing where it meets the top of the left-hand end of the bumper, rectified. 
Miss Ms report evidenced that the work she is concerned about amounts to a poor repair. 
The report cost Miss M £299.99 and was paid for by her around 22 July 2020. In line with 
our normal process, as the report has influenced the findings of my decision, I think UKI 
should refund its cost to Miss M, plus interest* from 22 July 2020 until settlement is made. 
But also I note that Miss M arranged to obtain this report when UKI said it couldnt send an 
inspector at that time due to the pandemic regulations. As UKI seems to have accepted that 
it should always have inspected the car, it isnt fair that Miss M is left out of pocket for her 
cost incurred in obtaining her own inspection.  
I think this has been frustrating for Miss M. I think UKI should pay her £50 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss M said she was generally happy with my decision. But she said shed like 
compensation for the time and effort shed spent dealing with things. 
UKI made a number of objections to my provisional decision. In summary it said:
Its policy wording is clear and Miss M clearly knew she had the option to use her own 
garage as shed approached it before calling it to make the claim. 
It would only ever raise the option of having a policyholder use their chosen garage, not 
offer advice about whether or not to do so.
Whilst it may be that a contract for repair came into existence between it and the garage 
for the insured repairs  that didnt extend to the poor work alleged here.
Miss M was in contract with the garage for this work as she chose them and approached 
them, so she should deal with it direct if she feels its responsible. 
The garage had given it a timeline and confirmed that whilst the photos themselves 
arent date or time stamped, they were taken by 2 July 2020 (the date most were 
uploaded to the repair report).One photo shows the poor repair and the old bumper still in place.
The area of poor work is dirty, with the paintwork not being fresh, and the car wasnt hit 
in this area in the crash.
If UKI is made to cover the repair, it will have to re-open the claim, with no way for it to 
recover its costs and this will affect the claim record and likely Miss Ms no claim 
discount (NCD).
It would reimburse Miss M for the cost of her expert report  but only if it was liable for 
the damage, and (in its view) it isnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that UKI doesnt agree it is liable for this poor repair. And I accept that it hasnt 
been conclusively shown that this work was done during UKIs repair of the accident damage 
sustained to Miss Ms car. But, on balance, having reviewed matters taking into account 
UKIs response to my provisional findings, I remain satisfied that this is when its most likely 
the poor work described in my provisional findings occurred.
Miss M did seek advice from her garage before calling UKI. But I dont think that necessarily 
means she had a good working knowledge of what her policy with UKI said. And whilst 
I cant comment on UKIs processes as a whole, I think that when Miss M said she wanted to 
use her garage, UKI should reasonably have highlighted what this meant and how this would 
affect her claim.
UKI cant reasonably on the one hand accept it entered into a contract for the repair of 
Miss Ms car with the garage, whilst, on the other, maintaining that she was in a contract with 
the garage. Once a contract for repair is entered into by the insurer, it is responsible for 
everything its agent does during the course of the agreement between them. If the agent, in 
this case the garage, causes damage and/or does poor work, UKI is responsible for that. 
As the photos arent date and time stamped, I cant be satisfied they were all taken by 2 July. 
But, in any event, the car was with the garage from 26 June and the garage says that the 
photos were taken after stripping the car for repairs. So my point made provisionally 
remains  the garage didnt take photos when the car arrived with it that would evidence that 
the poor work, subject of my decision, was already in existence at that time. 
That said I note a UKI engineer has highlighted and commented on one photo in particular. 
He says this shows the old bumper still in place and some poor paintwork to the far end of 
the rear wing above it. If thats so then the garages assertion that all photos were taken after 
the car had been stripped for repair cant be correct. Or, if the garage is correct, it must be 
that the engineers conclusion, that the bumper seen in the photo is the old bumper 
pre-repair, is wrong. As the evidence in this respect, provided by UKI is contradictory, I dont 
find the engineers comments persuasive evidence that the garage didnt do this poor work. 
Ive commented previously about the area being dirty. And I think whether the paint is fresh 
or has been poorly completed (meaning it doesnt look like fresh paint should) is a somewhat 
subjective issue. The fact the car wasnt hit in this area during the crash is irrelevant  my 
provisional finding was that the poor work most likely wasnt present when the garage took 
custody of the car for repair, but was when the car was returned to Miss M. My view on this 
hasnt changed.
UKI shouldnt take my decision on this as an opportunity to re-open the claim. And the fact it 
feels unable to recover the costs Ive found it is liable for isnt relevant to what I feel the correct outcome for this complaint should be. As Im satisfied that UKI entered into a contract 
for repair for Miss Ms car with it being liable for the poor work having been completed, and if 
Miss M accepts my decision within the time limit given, UKI will have to settle my award 
outside of both the policy terms and the claim process. To be clear, I mean that UKI will not 
be able to change the claim to being one of fault against Miss M, or amend the status of her 
no claims discount, merely because it has had to pay to rectify its poor repairs. 
My view on UKIs liability for the poor work hasnt changed. So neither has my view that it 
should reimburse Miss Ms cost incurred for obtaining her expert report.
Ive considered Miss Ms request for further compensation. I remain satisfied that £50 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. 
Putting things right
I require UKI to:
Rectify the poor paint finish and filler work on the bottom of the rear wing where it meets 
the top of the left-hand end of the rear bumper. 
Reimburse Miss M £299.99 being the cost she incurred for her expert report, plus 
interest* from 22 July 2020 until settlement is made.
Pay Miss M £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Miss M, it should tell her how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman