DRN-3709398
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  trading as very (very) unfairly 
ask him to repay lending for goods he says were returned.
What happened
Mr B used his account with very to purchase a cooker on 6 July 2020. It was delivered to Mr 
B on 14 July 2020, but the next day he asked very to arrange for it to be returned as it wasnt 
the correct model.
Very subsequently credited the cost of the cooker to Mr Bs account. Mr B says that the 
cooker was then collected and he purchased a replacement. 
Mr B says he became aware that very had reapplied the cost of the cooker to his account in 
August 2021. He raised a complaint with it because he maintained that the cooker had been 
returned.
Very responded to Mr Bs concerns in October 2021. It said that the charge had been 
reapplied because the supplier had told it the goods were not collected from Mr B. Very said 
that it wouldnt refund the cost of the goods unless Mr B provided proof theyd been returned. 
Mr B referred the matter to this service. Our investigator was persuaded by Mr Bs version of 
events and didnt think it reasonable to expect him to provide evidence the goods had been 
returned. They werent persuaded by the evidence very had provided and therefore asked it 
to refund the cost of the goods and pay Mr B £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
hed been caused.
Very didnt agree. It said an email had been sent to Mr B on 22 August 2020 asking him to 
provide more information about the goods hed received. As he didnt respond to that, 
collection of the goods was not arranged with the supplier. It said it had carried out an 
investigation in August 2021 during which it established Mr B had kept the goods, so the 
cost was reapplied to his account. 
The case has been passed to me to decide what should happen. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs complaint is about whether very has acted reasonably in attempting to collect sums 
under a running account credit facility. Thats a regulated agreement and one which this 
service has the power to consider a complaint about it. 
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as it is in this case), I make 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
From whats been said I think very accepts that Mr B was entitled to return the goods he 
received. I know its questioned whether the correct model had been received in the first 
instance, but that would be difficult to establish now that things have moved on. In my view, 
the issue at the heart of this complaint is whether its more likely than not that the goods 
were collected by the supplier. 
Like our investigator, I dont think its reasonable to assume  as very has in this case  that 
the goods werent collected, unless Mr B can demonstrate otherwise. 
I say this for two reasons  firstly, I find it plausible that the goods couldve been collected 
without Mr B having been given a receipt. Secondly, verys investigation into what happened 
and its reapplication of the cost of the cooker took place around a year after the event. Given 
the time that had passed, I think its understandable that Mr B has little evidence to 
demonstrate the goods were collected. I think itd be unreasonable to expect otherwise.
Conversely, I think theres a reasonable expectation for very to provide accurate and 
detailed records regarding what happened. Particularly as it is relying on those records to 
demonstrate why its acting fairly in requiring Mr B to repay the lending it provided.
The evidence weve been given shows very told Mr B on 15 July 2020 that the collection of 
the goods had been arranged. And then, on 22 August 2020 he was asked to provide the 
model number of the goods he received. Significantly, and importantly, Im satisfied that was 
all the message asked of Mr B. It didnt give the impression that the goods wouldnt be 
collected if he didnt respond, for example. 
Verys told us that the supplier confirmed that the collection didnt take place. The supplier 
told our investigator it couldnt find record of the collection taking place, but the order and 
installation was cancelled. Id usually expect to see evidence relating to this  for example, 
some kind of audit trail of the collection being cancelled after having been arranged, but 
weve been provided very little in that respect. Its also not clear what happened in the month 
or so it took for very to ask Mr B to provide details of the model, or during the year it took to 
reapply the lending.
In addition to the above, if the collection had taken place it wouldve happened during a 
global pandemic  at a time Im aware that usual collection processes, particularly in relation 
to procuring evidence of delivery and collection, might have been changed so as to minimise 
contact. So, like our investigator, given the above, I find that its plausible records of the 
collection could be incomplete.
Overall, Ive founds Mr Bs version of events to be plausible, persuasive and consistent. I 
think theres sufficient reason to doubt verys version of events, particularly due to the time 
which passed between the proposed collection and its reapplication of the lending. In 
summary, Im not persuaded that very is acting reasonably in asking Mr B to repay the 
lending it provided for the cooker. Like our investigator, I find that very hasnt treated Mr B 
fairly and it ought to pay him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused 
by that.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited  trading as very must;
- Rework Mr Bs account as though the charge for the cooker had not been applied. If 
the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr B along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date it wouldve been created to the date of settlement; and
- Pay Mr B £100 compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
*If Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  trading as very considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman