DRN-4367470
The complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about difficulties and delays experienced in registering a third-party 
mandate and Power of Attorney with Nationwide Building Society on her behalf.
Mrs Bs complaint is brought by her representative and daughter, Mrs G. 
What happened
Mrs G was seeking to register a third-party mandate form and Power of Attorney with 
Nationwide Building Society on Mrs Bs behalf when Mrs B became incapacitated. 
She experienced several difficulties in doing so. Initially she went into branch, but her 
requests could not be completed. She was then told by Nationwide shed receive a call but 
didnt. After she chased Nationwide, she was told the branch staff couldnt remember her 
coming in. It took a considerable number of phone calls and close to 4 months before the 
matter could be resolved and the documents registered. 
Nationwide said theyd tried to call Mrs G back several times but were unable to make 
contact with her. But they also accepted that the service theyd provided had fallen below the 
standards theyd usually expect and that the matter had taken far too long to resolve. They 
initially offered £100 in compensation for this. Mrs G was unhappy with this amount and felt it 
was insulting given the trouble and upset caused by Nationwides conduct. Nationwide took 
this into account and offered a further £250 in addition to the offer of £100 with a view to 
providing adequate compensation. Mrs G remained unhappy so referred Mrs Bs complaint 
about this to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  She wanted Nationwide to pay at least 
£1,000 in compensation.
Our investigator considered Mrs Bs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Whilst 
she acknowledged the impact of the delays and difficulties experienced in registering the 
third-party mandate form and Power of Attorney on Mrs G, she wasnt satisfied there was a 
financial or other impact on Mrs B that supported anything further should be paid by 
Nationwide. 
Mrs G doesnt agree. She feels that Nationwide should be held to account, so they improve 
their practices for vulnerable customers going forward. She also says there was a 
considerable financial impact on her personally because she had to pay bills on Mrs Bs 
behalf, which shes still having to pay off as a debt. She also says that Mrs B lost her mobility 
and had a decline in health because she couldnt be moved from respite care to more 
permanent housing because of Nationwides actions. As such the matter has been passed to 
me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Nationwide. Ill explain why.
Its important for me to restate here that this is Mrs Bs complaint about Nationwide and how 
they handled the registration of documents that were intended to allow her representatives 
and children to administer her account. So, although I dont doubt the considerable stress 
and inconvenience this caused Mrs G in pursuing this for some four months, whilst dealing 
with the decline in Mrs Bs health too, I cant consider her specific complaint about this. I can 
only consider the impact that this had on Mrs B. Although Im sorry to hear about the 
situation Mrs G has found herself in financially and the detriment she feels this situation 
caused to her health and wellbeing, thats not something I can look at.
Mrs G has said Nationwide should be held to account for how they dealt with this request on 
Mrs Bs account. I agree that financial institutions have certain responsibilities to their 
customers, especially those that are vulnerable, but I cant punish Nationwide in respect of 
any failings in respect of this or hold them to account in the same way their regulator would. 
Thats simply not within my gift. My role is to put things right where a business has done 
something wrong. In this case Nationwide accept they did something wrong and offered 
£350 in compensation for the impact they might have had on Mrs B.
Mrs G has made some submissions in respect of this. I note that Mrs Bs health was in 
decline some time before Mrs G sought to register the third-party mandate and Power of 
Attorney. This eventually resulted in Mrs B being put into respite care whilst more permanent 
accommodation could be found. Mrs G has said that Mrs Bs time in respite care resulted in 
a decline in her mobility and health generally. She feels Nationwide are responsible for this 
because she says that if she could have moved Mrs B to permanent accommodation sooner, 
this couldve been negated. I have no doubt that these circumstances would have been very 
distressing both for Mrs B and Mrs G. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that Nationwide 
was responsible for this. I say so because Ive not been provided with anything that confirms 
Mrs B couldnt be rehoused sooner as a result of the third-party mandate and Power of 
Attorney not being registered on her account. And even if it had been, I cant say with any 
certainty that her health wouldnt have declined in the way it did anyway as a result of her 
underlying condition anyway. 
And as the investigator said, there wasnt a direct impact on Mrs B of Nationwides actions- 
such as the distress and inconvenience of having to continually chase for the matter to be 
completed for several months, because this wasnt something she was involved in directly.
Overall, I think the total amount of compensation Nationwide have offered Mrs B in the sum 
of £350 is adequate in the circumstances. I know my decision will be disappointing for Mrs G 
on Mrs Bs behalf, but I hope Ive explained why I cant uphold this complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman