DRN-3801722
The complaint
A company Ill call E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and closed its account, 
without explaining why.
E is represented by its director, Mr S.
What happened
On 23 July 2021, Mr S logged into Es online banking only to find that he couldnt see Es 
account. He contacted Barclays to find out what had happened and was told his account had 
been closed with immediate effect. Barclays initially withheld the funds in Es account and 
asked Mr S to provide proof of Es entitlement to the account balance.
Mr S attended branch on 2 August 2021 with proof of Es entitlement on his phone, but 
Barclays told him he would need to print it out and provide further identification. Mr S didnt 
provide this until 27 August 2021, and Barclays confirmed the funds could be released on 31 
August 2021. Mr S attended branch on 14 September 2021 and took a bankers draft for the 
account balance.
Mr S complained, but Barclays didnt uphold Es complaint. It said it had made the correct 
decision to close Es account, and said it was unable to disclose the reasons for its decision.
Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought Es complaint to our service. Our investigator was 
satisfied that Barclays had treated E fairly, and said it didnt have to tell Mr S why it had 
closed Es account. But Mr S didnt accept Barclays had treated E fairly, so he asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of E, I would need to be satisfied that Barclays acted 
unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence Barclays has 
provided to explain its actions, Im satisfied it acted in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when it blocked Es account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account 
terms and conditions that governed the relationship between Barclays and E.
I appreciate Mr S is frustrated that Barclays hasnt explained its reasons in full, and that he 
feels strongly about Es complaint. But, under the terms and conditions of the account, 
Barclays doesnt have to give a reason for doing so. So, I cant say it did anything wrong by 
not giving E this information when it complained. And, having investigated Barclays rationale 
myself, Im satisfied it was entitled to block the account and complete the investigation in the 
manner it did. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest it treated E unfairly.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
The terms and conditions of Es account  with which both Barclays and E had to comply  
say that Barclays could close the account without notice in certain circumstances. 
Having considered the evidence Ive been provided, Im satisfied Barclays acted in 
accordance with its terms and conditions when it closed Es account. It issued a letter on 23 
July 2021, explaining that it had terminated Es account. And while I understand Mr Ss 
frustration that Barclays didnt give advance notice and wont explain the rationale for its 
decision, it isnt obliged to do so.  So, I cant reasonably say Barclays did anything wrong by 
closing Es account in the manner it did.
Ive also looked at whether or not Barclays acted promptly in releasing the account balance 
to E. Our investigator said Mr S attended branch on 2 August 2021 with proof of entitlement 
to the funds on his phone, but didnt return with printed documents until 27 August 2021. Mr 
S didnt challenge that assertion or show that he provided evidence sooner, so it took 
Barclays 4 days, including a weekend, to make the funds available to E. And, in the 
circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied that was a reasonable timeframe.
I understand why Mr S remains unhappy and I accept that E would have experienced 
inconvenience as a result of its account being closed without notice. But, for the reasons Ive 
set out above, I havent found that Barclays did anything it wasnt entitled to do, so I cant 
reasonably ask it to compensate E.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman