DRN-3215182
The complaint
Mr S complains that Covea Insurance plc declined a claim on a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr S had a PPI policy that began in 2006. Subject to the terms and conditions of the cover, 
the policy would pay £525.59 for up to 12 months if Mr B lost his job or was off work sick for 
more than 12 months.
Mr S was self-employed as a solicitor. In March 2020, Mr S stopped work because of 
COVID-19 restrictions, and contacted Covea to claim on the policy. Covea declined the 
claim. It said that as Mr B was self-employed, the policy required him to have permanently 
ceased trading and registered as unemployed. It says that the policy covers business failure, 
not short periods of unemployment. And so it couldnt consider the claim.
Mr S disagrees. He says he successfully claimed on the policy in 2017 without having to 
demonstrate hed permanently ceased to trade  he was able to claim while he looked for 
other work. Dissatisfied, he referred matters to us. 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 10 February 2022.
I said that Id considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I said Id taken into account relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This included the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) Consistent policy interpretations. Payment protection 
insurance. Statement of principles for the payment protection industry (2013).
I concluded that, based on what Id seen I didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld.
I first looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. The policy was called mortgage 
protector, and would pay the monthly benefit  the monthly mortgage payment due to Mr Ss 
lender, up to a maximum of £420.47 a month, plus an additional £105.12 for his other 
expenses  for up to 12 months if Mr S became unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment for more than 30 days.
Unemployment was defined in the policy, and meant:
Having no paid work or temporary work and having a Jobseekers Agreement with 
the Department for Work and Pensions in the UK. If you are ineligible for a 
Jobseekers Agreement you must be able to provide alternative proof acceptable to 
us that you are actively seeking work.
The policy imposed further requirements where the insured was self-employed:
If you are self-employed and you have involuntarily and permanently ceased trading 
because you could not find enough work to meet all your reasonable business and 
living expenses and have declared this to HM Revenue & Customs, you will be 
entitled to claim for unemployment benefit.
Later, when the policy explains the requirements for a claim, it says:
Before we can pay out a claim we must receive from you the necessary evidence 
and proof to validate your claim. We will only ask for information and proof that is 
reasonably required for the purpose of assessing your claim.
The information required depends on whether the insured is employed or self-employed. 
Where, like Mr S, someone was self-employed, the policy said Covea would require, among 
other things:
evidence that your business has ceased or suspended trading because you could 
not find enough work to meet all your reasonable business and living expenses. We 
may require evidence such as that you have declared this to HM Revenue and 
Customs, bank statements, accounts or a letter from your accountant with evidence 
that your business was no longer viable, that your business has ceased or 
suspended trading and that you are not receiving an income from the business.
I looked at these conditions together with the ABIs consistent policy interpretations, which I 
considered to represent good industry practice. This guidance sets out the minimum 
principles insurers will follow in a range of common claim situations and reflects current 
claims handling practices. It states that:
Each insurers individual policy wordings may vary but the overriding principles 
contained in this document reflect insurers intent that the customer can be confident 
that their claim will be dealt with consistently regardless of insurer []
The latest guidance came into effect in August 2013 and insurers had a year to implement 
any changes.
Section 1.8 of the consistent policy interpretations related to self-employed individuals.
Where insurers provide cover for the self-employed, insurers will include a statement 
in the policy wording directing those who are self-employed to the part of the policy 
detailing what cover is available to them and what evidence will be required to 
substantiate any claim.
The self-employed are customers who own their own business as sole traders or are 
able to control the affairs of their company. Claims will be accepted if they have 
involuntarily ceased trading because they could not find enough work to meet all their 
reasonable business and living expenses and have declared this to HM Revenue and 
Customs.
If a company or business has not ceased to trade then the policyholder will be asked 
to provide alternative evidence of unemployment, which may include:
written notice from an accountant that they are not generating revenue 
through their business,
evidence that a main contractor has ceased to trade where the policyholder 
entirely relied on being a sub-contractor to that firm.
Looking at the policy wording, I could see there appeared to be some tension between the requirement to claim under the heading unemployment cover on the one hand, and the 
evidence required to support a claim under the heading your claim. While the policy initially 
refers to the insured having involuntarily and permanently ceased trading, the evidence 
requirements instead refer to the business having ceased or suspended trading. I thought 
the natural meaning of suspended would include circumstances where a business had 
stopped trading for an indefinite period.
Likewise, while the earlier requirement states that the insured needs to declare theyd 
ceased trading to HM Revenue and Customs, the later requirement lists this as just one of a 
number of pieces of evidence that Covea may require. Other evidence included a letter 
from an accountant with evidence that the business is no longer viable, that the business 
has ceased or suspended trading and that the insured is not receiving an income from the 
business. This appeared to reflect the ABI consistent policy interpretations where a company 
or business had not ceased to trade. The policy thus seemed to envision circumstances in 
which an insured might claim on the policy despite not yet having declared the cessation of 
their business to HM Revenue and Customs.
But even if I relied on the terms most favourable to Mr S, I think Mr Ss business needed to 
have involuntarily ceased trading  and where he hadnt declared that hed ceased trading to 
HM Revenue and Customs, hed need evidence he was no longer receiving an income from 
his business.
Id thought about what Mr S had said about that. Mr S told Covea that the firm he was 
working for had a small office and that he couldnt work from home  and so he was let go 
due to the COVID-19 restrictions. He made a claim for Jobseekers Allowance for the period 
5 April 2020 to 4 May 2020. Though this claim wasnt successful, I noted that Mr S met the 
labour market conditions  including that he be available for work and be actively seeking 
work. So I was satisfied that at this time he wasnt able to do his job and that this was 
involuntary. And I was satisfied he was looking for other jobs.
But Mr S subsequently qualified for payments under the governments self-employment 
income support scheme. This meant that although Mr S wasnt working, he continued to 
receive an income from his business. I noted that one of the conditions of the self-employed 
income support scheme was that Mr S intended to continue trading in the 2020/21 tax year. 
And I further noted that, for tax purposes, the grant was treated as trading income, subject to 
income tax and national insurance contributions. I also note that, at the time Mr S made the 
claim, in June 2020, Mr S told Covea that he wouldnt declare to HMRC that he had ceased 
trading.
Based on all of this, although Mr S wasnt working I didnt think he met the evidential 
requirements to show hed ceased or suspended trading. Even leaving aside the 
requirement that Mr S had permanently ceased trading, I thought the later terms relating to 
suspension of trading allowed Covea to request alternative evidence that Mr S was not 
receiving an income from the business. And as Mr S was receiving much of his normal 
business profits from the government grant, he was still receiving an income from his 
business.
For these reasons, I was not satisfied Mr S had ceased trading. It followed that I didnt think 
it was unreasonable for Covea to have declined the claim on that basis.
Id considered Mr Ss further comments. Hed said that 
the terms and conditions of the policy were ambiguous and so should be interpreted 
in his favourhe thinks receipt of the grant from the government were irrelevant as these funds 
were not income from employment, but monies received because of lack of 
employment
he thinks the issue of the grant was irrelevant as this wasnt the reason Covea 
rejected the claim
he disagreed that the policy applies when he was entirely without income  he said 
that any income from employment is offset against the benefits under the policy so 
he can still receive income from employment
he thinks this is a strict contractual matter that doesnt depend on fairness or 
reasonableness on the part of Covea
hed previously claimed on the policy in 2017 without needing to demonstrate hed 
permanently ceased trading.
In response, I said that although Covea didnt reject the claim on the grounds Mr S had 
received the government grant  as this was something Mr S didnt do until later  I thought 
it was relevant when considering now whether hed ceased to trade. And I didnt think I could 
tell Covea to now accept the claim without taking the receipt of the grant into account.
Although Mr S said that employment income could be offset against the benefits under the 
policy, I couldnt see where the policy terms and conditions said this. Instead, the terms and 
conditions seemed to envision that a self-employed business had ceased.
And while Id considered Mr Ss comments about contract law, I was satisfied I had to base 
my decision on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint  taking 
into account relevant law and regulations. But I also thought that, even taking into account 
any ambiguity, the terms and conditions allowed Covea to ask for evidence that Mr S wasnt 
receiving an income from his business.
For these reasons I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I said Id consider any further 
comments I received before 8 March 2022.
Both Mr S and Covea have confirmed receipt of my provisional findings. Neither Mr S nor 
Covea have sent me anything further to consider. Ive therefore considered the complaint 
afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr S nor Covea have sent me anything further to consider. I therefore reach the 
same conclusions as in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman