DRN-3411456
The complaint
Miss T believes Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) acted irresponsibly by approving a 
hire purchase agreement shed applied for. Shes also unhappy that the car they supplied to 
her was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 26 September 2019, Miss T was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with SMF. The agreement was for £7,000 over 60 months, with 59 monthly 
payments of £211.35, and a final payment of £221.35. 
Miss T says she had several problems with the car, which resulted in her having to pay for 
repairs  the clutch needed replacing in August 2020 and the coolant reservoir was cracked 
and leaking. And, because of this, she believes the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to her.
Miss T complained to SMF about the quality of the car, and that she didnt think theyd acted 
responsibly when approving the loan. She said she wasnt employed at the time, and her 
income was entirely made up of benefits. 
SMF didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show the car was of an unsatisfactory 
quality when supplied. But they said they hadnt acted reasonably when they approved the 
finance Miss T had applied for. And they said she could terminate the agreement, and hand 
back the car, with nothing further to pay. Miss T wasnt happy with this, and she brought her 
complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator thought that SMF didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Miss T could sustainably make the payments. And, if they had carried out these 
checks, then they wouldve seen that Miss T was unable to afford the payments. However, 
the investigator didnt think that the issues Miss T had had with the car made it of an 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Because the investigator didnt think that SMF shouldve approved the finance, she didnt 
think it was fair for them to charge any interest or charges. But Miss T had had use of the car 
for 28 months and around 25,000 miles, so the investigator thought she should pay for fair 
usage of the car. Given this, the investigator thought Miss Ts liability should be limited to 
£130 a month, and SMF should refund her what shed paid over this amount, plus interest.
SMF didnt agree with the investigators recommendations. And they said they would 
normally consider £0.25 a mile to be reasonable for fair usage, and not the amount that had 
been suggested. They also didnt think the car wasnt fit for purpose as Miss T had done 
25,000 miles, and they pointed out that Miss T continues to have usage of the car, even 
though they offered to take it back (with nothing further to pay) in December 2020.
Because SMF didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss T was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
Having reviewed the evidence in this case, Ive seen its not disputed that SMF didnt carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks when they approved the finance. In their letter 
dated 22 December 2020, SMF confirmed we believe further questions shouldve been 
asked due to the increasing default balance on your credit file and overall fairly limited credit 
facilities. In this letter they also confirmed that, when Miss T contacted them on 27 
September 2019, to inform us you were unemployed and, having listened to this call, we do 
not feel that a sufficient undertaking of your circumstances were completed at this time.
As a result of this, SMF offered Miss T the option to voluntarily surrender the agreement, and 
hand the car back with nothing further to pay. However, they also said they would register a 
default on Miss Ts credit file, which would remain there for six years.
With regards to whether the car was of a satisfactory quality when supplied, Ive also seen 
that neither Miss T nor SMF disagreed with the investigators conclusions that it was. 
Given the above, I wont address the facts of this case. Instead, my decision will focus on 
what SMF should do to put things right.
Putting things right
As its not disputed that the finance shouldve been approved, Ive thought about how to put 
Miss T back in the position she wouldve been in if this hadnt happened. So, I think that 
SMF should cancel the agreement and take back the car (at no cost to Miss T). They should 
also refund the payments shed made, less an amount for her fair usage of the car.
Theres no set formula for working out what fair usage should be. So, Ive considered the 
amount of interest charged on the agreement overall, Miss Ts usage of the car, and what it 
wouldve cost her to stay mobile in a similar car had she not entered into this agreement. 
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that £130 for each month Miss T had the car is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
SMF have challenged this, saying that they consider £0.25 a mile to be a more reasonable 
calculation of fair usage. But, when deciding what fair usage should be, I dont think mileage 
is the fairest way to calculate it. I say this because Ive seen nothing in the agreement that 
limits Miss T to a particular mileage, and given the average mileage shes doing (approx. 
890 miles a month), SMFs view on what would be a fair usage payment is more than the 
payment Miss T was contractually obliged to pay under the agreement  an amount SMF 
had acknowledged she has always been unable to sustainably pay.
And, as detailed above, I think there are other considerations which impact what the fair 
usage payment should be. So, after taking account all the circumstances of this case, Im 
satisfied that £130 a month is fair.SMF have also said that they offered Miss T the chance to voluntarily surrender the car in 
December 2020, and have a default registered against her credit file for six years, and she 
refused this offer. And they believe this makes the investigators recommendation unfair. But 
I disagree. Miss T was not under any obligation to accept this offer and had the right to ask 
us to investigate her complaint, which she did. And I dont think Miss T exercising this right 
should mean she should be forced to accept an offer which, for the reasons explained in the 
investigators view, we think isnt fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
The investigator recommended that Miss T pay SMF £130 a month for her fair usage of the 
car, which at the time of their view totalled £3,640. But, as SMF have pointed out, Miss T has 
continued to have use of the car. As such, while I still agree that Miss T should pay £130 a 
month, the total amount that she needs to pay should be adjusted to take account of the total 
time Miss T had use of the car.
Given this, Im satisfied that SMF should:
cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay;
arrange to collect the car at no cost to Miss T, without any undue delay;
refund everything Miss T has paid, minus a deduction of £130 for every month she 
was in possession of the car to account for her fair usage of it, plus 8% simple yearly 
interest on any overpayments Miss T has made, from the date of the overpayment to 
the date of the refund ; and
remove all adverse information relating to the finance agreement from Miss Ts credit 
file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires SMF to take off tax from this interest. SMF must give 
Miss T a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Ts complaint. And Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman