DRN-3246555
The complaint
This is a complaint that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) declined to pay Miss Bs travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Miss B travelled abroad, with the intention of staying for up to a year. She 
bought a ticket out to her first destination, but didnt buy a return ticket. Before 
her trip, she took out backpackers travel insurance, underwritten by Mapfre. 
The insurance ran from 20 October 2019 for a year.
In March 2020, the UK government advised UK nationals to return home as 
soon as possible, because of the pandemic. Miss B bought a ticket and flew 
back to the UK. Miss B has sent us evidence of how much more tickets cost in 
March 2021, compared to when she had flown out several months earlier. She 
said this was because suddenly everyone was rushing to fly home, and the 
prices went up. She paid about five times as much as when she bought her 
flight out.
Miss B made a claim to Mapfre, but it declined to pay. It said this was because 
Miss B hadnt had a pre-paid flight booked home.
Our investigator said he thought Mapfre was entitled to decline to pay the 
claim. He said that, because the flight was not pre-paid, there wasn't an 
insured loss, as the flight cost was always a cost Miss B would have incurred. 
He also said that, under the policy, only expenses that were pre-paid, or that 
Miss B was contractually obliged to pay, were covered. Miss B didnt agree, 
arguing that she was covered for extra costs under the policy.
Because there was no agreement, the matter came to me to decide.
There were other aspects to Miss Bs complaint, but theyve been settled. Ive 
looked just at the claim for travel costs.
When I reviewed the complaint I also thought the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld, but my reasoning was different to that of the adjudicator. So I wrote a 
provisional decision and invited comments. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My current view is that I shouldnt uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Mapfre has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Ive 
taken these rules and guidelines into account when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Bs complaint. Ive also looked carefully at 
what Miss Bs policy says it covers.
The policy says:
A - Cancelling and cutting short your holiday 
What you are covered for
If you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons 
listed below we will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits on 
pages 5 and 6 for:
Unused travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or 
have agreed to pay under a contract and which you cannot get back, 
including any local prepaid excursions, tours or activities, if it is 
necessary and you cannot avoid cancelling or cutting short your trip: 
and
Reasonable extra travel costs if it is necessary and you cannot avoid 
cutting short your trip.
But the policy terms and conditions exclude:
The cost of your original return trip, if you have already paid this and you 
need to cut short your journey.
Miss B was covered if the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised 
against travel in the area of her trip. So, I think she had a valid claim under her 
insurance policy. The key issue is whether shes incurred reasonable extra travel 
costs.
In this case Miss B didnt incur any extra costs because shed not bought a return 
ticket. I agree that Miss B is likely to have had to pay more than she expected to 
pay, because of the rush for tickets. But this particular cost, brought about by 
sudden demand for tickets, wasnt something envisaged or covered by the policy.
I think it is clear enough from the terms that the insurer is saying it wont pay for 
Miss Bs ticket home, even if its for one of the reasons listed under the policy. 
This would, in usual circumstances, not be surprising  Miss B would have had 
to buy a ticket home anyway.
In my experience, this is a common exclusion in a travel insurance policy and 
Im satisfied that Mapfre has fairly declined Miss Bs claim.
In response, Miss B said she didnt agree. She said:
It is clearly not disputed that I incurred extra costs of my return flight being more than 
four times the price of a normal ticket.
However, the fact that this is something not envisaged by the policy has to be totally 
incorrect.
My trip was cut short by Government action brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic 
and in this scenario it would obvious be envisaged that return flights would be 
scarce and more expensive.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Miss B has said, but Ive still decided not to uphold her complaint.  I 
agree that she incurred unexpected extra costs, as a result of complying with Government 
advice to return home. But the insurance policy covered her against additional items (other 
than her return ticket) that she might have to pay for, due to an early return home. The return 
ticket was not an additional item, but something she would have had to buy anyway at some 
point. So she wasnt covered for that cost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman