DRN-1569850
 
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the amount Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) has paid to settle his car 
insurance claim. Hes also unhappy with how his claim was handled. 
Any reference to Zenith includes their agents. Mr T is assisted by his wife in bringing this 
complaint, but as he is the policyholder, I will only refer to him throughout this decision. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr T was involved in a car accident. Mr T made a claim under his car 
insurance which was accepted by Zenith. The car was considered a total loss and Zenith 
decided to make a cash payment to settle the claim. Zenith initially said they determined the 
cars pre-accident market value to be £3,600, then increased this to £3,800. Mr T was 
unhappy with both amounts because it wouldnt settle the finance agreement on the car 
meaning he was responsible for paying the outstanding balance. Zenith re-considered their 
valuation and apologised for not calculating the average market value before making 
deductions. They increased the market value to £4,672. 
Due to pre-existing damage to the car, Zenith said they would deduct £250 from the market 
value. They also said they would deduct £96 for storage costs which Mr T agreed to pay.   
Mr T was also unhappy about Zeniths handling of his claim. He said there was a delay in the 
collection of the car and there was a period of time when he was left without the use of a hire 
car while his claim was being settled. 
Mr T complained to Zenith. They said their initial market valuations of £3,600 and £3,800 
was increased to £4,672 following Mr T disagreeing with the amount. They said £4,672 
minus the £250 deduction for damage was their final offer to settle the claim. They also said 
the policy excess had been waived and not deducted from the settlement amount. However 
Zenith accepted the claim couldve been handled better and they offered £100 compensation 
to Mr T. 
Unhappy with Zeniths response, Mr T referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint should be upheld. They said both the market value of the car 
and the compensation amount should be increased. They said Zenith should:
pay £5,202 for the market value of Mr Ts car, less the £96 storage charge if this 
hadnt already been paid; and
increase the offer of compensation to £150 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr T. 
Zenith disagreed and said the investigator had used a motor trade guide which they dont 
rely on. They said this particular trade guide shows the retail prices of cars as opposed to 
the market value.
In April 2020, I issued my provisional decision and I said I intended to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint for the following reasons:valuation of the car
In the event a car is damaged, Zeniths policy terms say they can choose to repair, replace 
or pay the amount equal to the loss or damage. The terms go on to say, the insurer will not 
pay more than the market value of the car at the time of the loss unless the new car benefit 
applies.
The policy terms define market value as the cost of replacing your car with another of 
the same make, specification, model, age and mileage and condition as the car immediately 
before the loss or damage happened. This means Zenith will pay the value of the car 
immediately before the accident in July 2019, which theyve determined to be £4,672. 
Firstly, I must explain, my role is not to provide an exact value of Mr Ts car. Instead I 
must consider if the amount offered by Zenith is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
When looking at these types of complaints, I check motor trade guides and consider whether 
Zenith has made a reasonable offer in line with them. I may also consider other 
information such as retail and private adverts. However I tend to place more weight on the 
guides as theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices, so theyre more 
reliable than individual adverts. This is because adverts can be misleading as vehicles often 
dont sell for the advertised price.
Zenith said they checked two trade guides which gave valuations of £5,080 and £4,264, and 
they calculated the market value based on the average - £4,672. Along with the two trade 
guides Zenith has referred to, our service commonly also refers to another guide when 
considering such cases. I note Zenith has said they dont rely on this third trade guide. Whilst 
they choose not to do so, I consider it to be just as reliable as the other two guides. So I 
have taken into account all three guides when considering this complaint.
Our investigator found valuations of £5,260 and £4,375 based on the guides used by Zenith. 
The last guide which our service also uses, gave a valuation of £5,144. It would appear the 
market valuation of £4,375 is significantly out of the line when compared to the other two. So 
having referred to the guides myself, Im satisfied the investigators valuations of £5,260 and 
£5,144 gave a good indication of the market value of Mr Ts car. Therefore Im not 
persuaded Zeniths market valuation is fair. Similar to what was suggested by the 
investigator, I believe it would be more reasonable to calculate the average of the two 
valuations which are most in line - £5,260 and £5,144. This means I believe Zenith should 
increase the market valuation of Mr Ts car to £5,202.
pre-existing damage
If there is pre-existing damage to Mr Ts car which would impact its market value, I believe it 
is fair for Zenith to make a deduction accordingly. In this case, Zenith said there was 
damage to two tyres and on two doors. They said they would deduct £250 to reflect the 
reduced market value of the car.
In circumstances of damage to cars, I refer to the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) because it provides guidance on what is considered fair wear and tear. 
 
Tyres  Zenith said the two tyres are worn on the outer edge and there is a nail in one of the 
tyres. They have provided photographs of the same. The BVLRA says scuffs up to 50mm on 
the total circumference of the wheel are acceptable. It also says holes to the tyres are not 
acceptable. I have not been provided with evidence of the measurements but having 
considered the size of the scuffs in relation to the rest of the tyre, on balance I believe they 
are larger than 50mm in total. I am also satisfied the nail in the tyre indicates there is a hole.Scratches and dent  Zenith said there are scratches to both door panels. The BVRLA 
guidance says scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable. Similar to what Ive said 
above, there is no indication of the measurements. However having seen pictures of the 
damage, on balance I am satisfied they are more than 25mm based on their size in relation 
to the rest of the door.
Therefore I believe it was reasonable for Zenith to consider the above as pre-existing 
damage to Mr Ts car which would impact its market value. So it wouldnt be fair to expect 
them to pay the full market value with such damage. Theyve said they would deduct £250 
for the damage to reflect the reduced market value of the car and I believe it was reasonable 
for them to do so. 
storage cost
Zenith paid for the storage for Mr Ts car from the date of the claim. However their claim 
records show Mr Ts car was held at a garage for approximately a week before Zenith was 
told about the accident. Therefore Zenith said Mr T is responsible for the £96 storage cost 
incurred during this time. Mr T agreed to pay this cost. Given this storage was arranged 
before the accident had been reported to Zenith, I believe it was reasonable for this amount 
to be deducted from the settlement amount. I say this because Zenith cant fairly be held 
responsible for storage costs before it was told about the claim.
the finance on the car
Mr Ts car was subject to a hire purchase agreement at the time of the accident. The policy 
terms say: in the event of the cars total loss or destruction, pay the hire purchase or 
leasing company directly for the loss or damage to the vehicle. If the insurers estimate of the 
market value is less than the amount owed any balance will be paid by you. I note Zenith 
said they intend to pay the settlement amount directly to Mr Ts finance company because 
there is an outstanding balance. Based on the terms of the policy, I think it is reasonable for 
them to do so because there is an outstanding balance on the car finance agreement. 
As Ive said, I intend to ask Zenith to increase the market value of Mr Ts car to £5,202, less 
the deductions Ive mentioned. As there is still an outstanding balance on the finance 
agreement, I intend to say this increased settlement amount should be paid directly to the 
finance company to settle the agreement. If there is any money left after settling the 
agreement, I intend to say the remainder should be paid to Mr T directly. 
handling of the claim
Zenith accepts Mr Ts claim could have been handled better and they have offered to pay 
compensation for their poor service. Their claim records show it took over three weeks for Mr 
Ts car to be collected for inspection after the accident was reported. Zenith offered £100 
compensation for this and I believe this to be a reasonable amount to acknowledge the delay 
in settling the claim and the inconvenience it caused Mr T having to contact them on a 
number of occasions to find out what was happening.
However our investigator recommended the compensation should be increased to £150 to 
also take into the account the time Mr T was left without the use of a hire car. The policy 
says Zenith will provide a courtesy car while their approved repairer is fixing the car however 
this is subject to availability. From mid-July 2019, Mr T was provided with a hire car by a not 
at fault car hire scheme however as there were delays in Zenith collecting the car and 
settling the claim, Mr T was asked to return the hire car in mid August 2019. Although the supply of a hire car is subject to availability, on balance, I believe had Zenith 
spoken to the not at fault car hire scheme about extending Mr Ts car hire or had they started 
making arrangements for a replacement car at an earlier stage, I dont believe Mr T wouldve 
been left without the use of a hire car for as long as he did. Mr T said this led to him having 
no car to travel to work and it left him without transportation for his wife and two disabled 
children. Mr T complained to Zenith about not having use of a hire car on a number of 
occasions, which persuades me the situation was causing a problem.
While I accept Zeniths offer of £100 compensation recognises the poor service it offered in 
regards to the delay in collecting the car, I dont believe it takes into account Mr Ts 
inconvenience for being without a hire car and the impact it had on his commute to work and 
his family. So Im not satisfied their offer of compensation is enough given these two issues. 
I believe a total compensation amount of £200 is fair to compensate for the inconvenience 
caused to Mr T.
Lastly had Zenith agreed a fair settlement amount from the start of the claim, I believe Mr Ts 
finance agreement wouldve been settled around September 2019. However because of the 
dispute, Zenith paid no money towards it. This has meant Mr T has continued to pay the 
monthly repayments which include an element of interest charged by the finance company. 
To compensate Mr T for the additional interest and the money he has been deprived of in 
excess of the amount needed to settle the agreement, I believe it is fair for Zenith to pay him 
simple interest at 8% a year on the revised settlement amount from the date of the final 
response letter to the date of settlement. 
Response to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to provide me with any further submissions before I reached my final 
decision. I am pleased to hear both Zenith and Mr T have accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr T commented that he relied heavily on the hire car and he only had use of it for a couple 
of weeks, until the end of July 2019, not August 2019 and this caused a great 
inconvenience.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As neither Mr T or Zenith have asked me 
to consider any further submissions, Im upholding this complaint for the reasons detailed in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint and Zenith Insurance 
plc should:
pay a total market value of £5,202 for Mr Ts car, Zenith may deduct from this sum 
£250 to reflect the pre-existing damage and £96 for the storage costs;
pay Mr T simple interest at 8% a year on the revised settlement amount (£5,202, 
minus the deductions), from the date of the final response letter to the date of 
settlement; and
pay Mr T a total of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him through poor claim handling.
If Zenith considers that it's required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to take off income 
tax from the interest, it should tell Mr T how much it's taken off. It should also give Mr T a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC, if 
appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Simona Charles
Ombudsman