DRN-3623948
The complaint
Mr G complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) did not do enough to help him 
when he was the victim of a scam.
 
What happened
Mr G says he made two payments from his RBS account in late 2020 to an investment 
company specializing in cryptocurrency. Mr G says his RBS account was restricted soon 
afterwards and he had no knowledge of any transactions from that point onwards. Mr G said 
he requested a refund of his earlier investments, but that the scammer took further funds 
instead. He has mentioned some other payments, but has only raised the final one as a 
complaint with RBS, which was for £3,671.60 which was made on 5 January 2021. 
Mr G raised a scam complaint with RBS on 12 February 2021. He said that he downloaded 
remote access software onto his mobile phone that gave the scammer access to his phone. 
He then left his phone unattended while the scammer worked on his account and he 
believes this is how they took the £3,671.60. 
RBS issued a final response letter in which they explained that the funds had been sent from 
Mr Gs device and theyve said there was no indication that remote access software had 
been used. Because of this, they declined to refund the payment, but did attempt to recover 
the funds from the beneficiary account. This was on a best endeavors basis and there was 
no guarantee it would be returned. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded and 
explained the funds did not remain in the account, so could not be returned. 
Mr G was also unhappy that after the fraudulent payment, two genuine payments were 
declined while he was in a shop, which he found embarrassing. RBS apologised for this but 
explained it had not made an error, as the payments had genuinely flagged on their fraud 
prevention systems. So, it was in Mr Gs interest for the payments to be stopped and verified 
by him prior to leaving his account. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and felt that RBS had acted reasonably when it 
declined to refund the £3,671.60. They said there wasnt enough evidence to agree that a 
third party had made the payment on Mr Gs behalf and they felt it was more likely Mr G had 
been tricked into making the payment himself, so they treated the dispute as a scam. They 
did not feel that the payment was so unusual to warrant being stopped by RBS prior to it 
leaving the account as it was in line with Mr Gs general account activity. And they felt RBS 
had acted reasonably when the two payments in April 2021 were stopped for further checks 
prior to leaving Mr Gs account. 
Mr G disagreed with the Investigators findings. He felt the scam payment was unusual and 
should have been flagged and that RBS had closed his account down so he had no access 
to it, meaning he had no access to statements either. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing I need to consider is whether or not Mr G authorised the payment himself.    
Mr G has said a third party authorised it after gaining access to his online banking, whereas 
RBS has said the evidence suggests Mr G authorised the payment himself. 
Ive considered Mr Gs testimony, that a third party accessed his mobile phone via remote 
access software and made the payment themselves. Having done so, there are some 
inconsistencies Id like to address. 
Firstly, Mr Gs version of events has varied somewhat, though I would expect this to happen 
a little over time as memories can fade. Mr G said in an early phone call to our service that 
he was unsure how the scammer got hold of his account details and that he didnt give them 
to him knowingly. But that he may have given some details when he made earlier 
investments with the individual. However, on the call with RBS in which he reported the 
scam, Mr G said he thinks the scammer saw him input his account details on his online 
banking while using remote access software. These are two contradicting version of events 
and make it difficult for me to rely on Mr Gs testimony.
Mr G has said in a phone call to our service that he did not have access to his online 
banking between September and January, so he could not see his statements or what 
transactions were occurring on the account. Listening to the call in which Mr G reported the 
scam to the business, as described above, Mr G said he thinks the scammer got hold of his 
details while he was logging into his online banking, and has made no mention of any 
access issues to his online banking. In addition to this, I can see from the online banking 
logs RBS has provided that Mr G regularly accessed his online banking to check his 
transactions and transfer funds between accounts during that period of time. Which again 
contradicts his comments that he had no access to his account. 
I also have to consider the length of time it took Mr G to report the scam payment to RBS. 
The payment was made on 5 January 2021, but Mr G didnt report it until 12 February  over 
a month later. Mr G said that he was told by the scammer he would arrange a refund of his 
earlier investments on 5 January and that Mr G left his phone unattended while the individual 
worked on his accounts. Mr G then logged into his online banking on 6, 7, 8 and 9 January, 
and I can see he transferred funds between his accounts on 18 January. So, I think Mr G 
could have seen that the payment had been made prior to 12 February, however he waited 
until that point to report the scam. On balance, I think its more likely Mr G waited until that 
point because he made the payment himself and realised he would not be getting a return 
on the investment in February 2021.
Considering these inconsistencies, and the fact that RBS has highlighted the payment was 
made using Mr Gs device at an IP address he had used many times before, and they have 
found no indication of remote access software being used, I think its more likely Mr G 
authorised the payment himself as part of an investment scam. 
As I think Mr G authorised the transaction, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
and the terms of the account, Mr G is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider RBS should fairly 
and reasonably:- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams. 
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which payment 
service providers are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
Ive first considered if RBS should have flagged the payment as suspicious and made 
additional checks as a result. I appreciate Mr G has said the payment was larger than 
normal, and I agree that it was the highest payment when compared with the previous six 
months. But I dont think the difference was such that this alone made the payment appear 
suspicious. 
Mr G regularly made faster payments via his online banking, so the method was not new, 
though I do note this payment was to an international bank whereas the others were within 
the UK. Finally, the payment took Mr G into his overdraft, which he didnt often go into. But 
he had done in the past and the payment did not take him to the limit of his overdraft and 
therefore drain the account. On balance, I dont think there is enough for me to say the 
payment was so unusual as to make it suspicious and I therefore think it was reasonable 
that RBS did not make additional checks before processing the payment.   
I can understand Mr Gs frustration that later payments were caught by RBS fraud 
prevention system which he says caused embarrassment while he was in a store. But I cant 
agree that RBS has made an error in ensuring these payments were genuine, as they had 
matched known fraud trends at the time. Ultimately, they were trying to protect Mr Gs 
account.    
My final decision
I think The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has acted fairly in the circumstances and I dont 
require it to take further action. I therefore do not uphold Mr Gs complaint against The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman