DRN-3679469
The complaint
Mr A and Miss T complain about the service they received from more 2 life Ltd following their 
application for further borrowing on their lifetime mortgage. They said more 2 life Ltd agreed 
to lend them more money but then changed their mind after a valuation was carried out. Mr 
A and Miss T also said there were delays caused during the application process.
What happened
Mr A and Miss T took out a lifetime mortgage with more 2 life in August 2020.  At the time, 
their property was valued at £125,000. Based on the value of the property. Mr A and Miss T 
borrowed £33,125.
In September 2021, Mr A and Miss T enquired about taking additional borrowing on their 
mortgage. They contacted a broker to enquire and make an application on their behalf. They 
wanted to borrow between £15,000 and £20,000.
More 2 life did explain that they had a minimum release of funds which was at £7,500 so 
based on the valuation figure they had of £150,000 at the time, it wasnt possible for Mr A 
and Miss T to borrow any further funds. 
After some discussions surrounding valuation figures and what could be borrowed, Mr A and 
Miss T told their broker that their property was worth £187,000 and based on this more 2 life  
said Mr A and Miss T could borrow just over £18,000.
On 7 January 2022, more 2 life received an application fee of £160 and an application to 
borrow £18,000. This was based on an estimated property value of £187,000.
A survey was carried out which valued Mr A and Miss Ts property at £145,000.
Mr A contacted more 2 life on 28 January 2022 to find out if the valuation had been received 
and when he asked how much the property had been valued at, he was told it was valued at 
£187,000.
More 2 life contacted the broker and explained that based on the valuation of the property, 
Mr A and Miss T were unable to borrow any additional funds. More 2 life acknowledged that 
Mr A and Miss T were given the incorrect value of their property over the telephone, so they 
refunded the application fee of £160.
Mr A and Miss T were unhappy with this, so they brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint and thought that more 2 life had done enough to put things right. 
She also explained that we couldnt look at the actions of the surveyor, only those of more 2 
life. 
Mr A and Miss T disagreed. They said, they havent received the refund of the application 
fee and would like £300 compensation for the incorrect information they were given over the 
telephone. They also said they feel that more 2 life and the surveyors are working together. 
Mr A and Miss T asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the information, I agree with what the investigator has said. Ill explain 
why.
Id firstly like to make it clear that we are unable to consider any complaint that Mr A and 
Miss T have about the valuation itself, or the actions of the surveyor. The surveyor is 
regulated by the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors so they would need to raise the 
matter with them if they wish to do so.
Mr A and Miss T have given us detailed information of what has happened during the 
application process. Having looked at all evidence provided, its clear that there were several 
conversations about what Mr A and Miss T could borrow. But all of these discussions made 
it clear that any amount agreed, would be subject to the valuation amount because more 2 
life had a £7,500 minimum for release of funds. I can see that this was made clear to the 
broker at the outset. Im not going to comment on every single aspect that has happened her 
as Im going to focus solely on the crux of the complaint here  in that Mr A and Miss T 
believe the valuation is incorrect and think they should be able to borrow further funds.
Mr A and Miss T have told us that they had their property valued by two separate estate 
agents who both valued the property much higher. I appreciate that this may have been the 
case, but what I need to consider is whether more 2 life acted reasonably when assessing 
Mr A and Miss Ts application for further borrowing.
The application was made and more 2 life did explain to Mr A and Miss T that they were 
prepared to lend just over £18,000 but this was dependent on the value of the property being 
£187,000  which is what Mr A and Miss T said it was. 
More 2 life instructed an independent firm of chartered surveyors to carry out the valuation. 
This is what we would have expected them to do. The valuation came back at £145,000 and 
not £187,000 as Mr A and Miss T thought. Based on more 2 lifes lending criteria, this meant 
it wasnt enough for Mr A and Miss T to borrow any additional funds. 
So while I understand the point that Mr A and Miss T are making in that they were told they 
could borrow additional funds but then this was declined, the offer was not guaranteed 
because it was always dependent on the valuation. And unfortunately for Mr A and Miss T, 
the property wasnt valued as much as they thought it was. I cant therefore say that more 2 
life have been unreasonable in declining the mortgage application based on this. 
I appreciate that Mr A was given incorrect information when he called more 2 life to enquire if 
the valuation had been carried out on his property. More 2 life apologised for this and 
refunded Mr A and Miss T the £160 application fee they paid. 
Mr A and Miss T told our investigator that they never received this payment. Our investigator 
contacted more 2 life who have sent us evidence to show that an amount of £160 was paid 
into Miss Ts account on 3 February 2022.
While Mr A and Miss T would like £300 paid to them as compensation for the incorrect 
information that was given, I think the refund of the application fee is fair and reasonable. Mr 
A and Miss T didnt lose out because of the incorrect information given and as a result, I 
think more 2 life have done enough to put things right.
I appreciate that Mr A and Miss T will be disappointed by with my decision, but I wont be 
asking more 2 life to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman