DRN-3027009
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Step One Finance Limited provided them with an unsuitable 
loan. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr and Mrs C decided to consolidate some existing debt into a single loan, secured 
against their property. They used a broker to do this, who I will refer to as P.  P sold them a 
loan provided by Step One. 
A few months into the loan, Mr and Mrs C were in the position to pay off a large lump sum. 
They contacted Step One to find out what proportion of the payment would go towards 
interest and what would pay off the debt itself. They also wanted to know the same about 
their repayments to date. They called Step One a number of times but werent able to get the 
required answer. 
When they did find out, they werent happy with the ratio of their payments that was going 
towards interest rather than loan repayment. As the vast majority of the repayments they had 
made was being used to pay interest. They made a complaint to Step One. They said they 
werent happy with a number of things including:
The proportion of their loan repayments that was going towards paying interest. 
The number of times they had to call Step One before getting an answer about the 
amount of interest they were paying. 
The fact Mr C had been added as a joint applicant when Mrs C originally asked for the 
loan in solely her name. Mrs C says that they were now linked on her credit file and this 
has affected her ability to obtain credit.
They felt that Step Ones appointed surveyor significantly undervalued their house.
Step One upheld their complaint in relation to the service they had received. It apologised 
that they had to make 12 calls before getting an answer about the interest to repayment ratio 
and offered £50 compensation to make up for this. However it said it was P who was 
responsible for selling the loan and explaining the terms, including the fact it was in joint 
names. And it said its surveyor provided a full report on their valuation of the property 
including examples of three other comparable properties that had sold recently. So it was 
satisfied it had done enough to ensure a fair valuation. 
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with this response and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended Step One pay an additional 
£100 compensation. She said she thought the number of times Mr and Mrs C had had to call 
it had caused them considerable distress and inconvenience and this would better reflect 
that. 
However she thought Step One had acted fairly in other regards, so didnt recommend the 
other elements of the complaint were upheld.
Step One agreed to pay the additional compensation. However Mr and Mrs C didnt agree 
this was enough and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this complaint, Mr and Mrs C have raised a number of points. As this is an 
informal service, Ive not addressed every one. Instead Ive focussed on those that are most 
relevant.
Part of this complaint was about the sale of the loan. But as Step One had no involvement in 
this process, Ive not addressed all of these points here. Mr and Mrs C have also made a 
complaint about P, who sold the loan. These will be dealt with as part of that complaint 
instead. 
Proportion of repayments used to pay interest
Mr and Mrs C are making monthly repayments on the loan of £972.89. Since taking it out, 
theyve found out that only a small proportion of this is going towards paying off the debt, 
with most being paid towards interest charges. 
I can understand why this has been distressing for Mr and Mrs C to find out, particularly as 
they feel it wasnt made clear before this point. However I dont think Step One has done 
anything wrong here. 
Its explained that while Mr and Mrs Cs payments remain the same for the full term of the 
loan, more of these repayments are used towards interest to begin with. This is because at 
this stage the debt is higher, so interest charges are also higher. As the debt is repaid, 
interest also decreases which means less interest is paid and more of the payments goes 
towards the remaining debt. This is how the same repayments for the full term of the loan 
are maintained. 
When Mr and Mrs C agreed to take out the loan it was for P to make clear the monthly 
repayment amount, the term of the borrowing and the total amount that would be paid. As 
they agreed to that before signing the agreement, I cant say that Step One has done 
anything wrong. As it provided the loan on the terms Mr and Mrs C agreed to through P.
The loan is in joint names
Mrs C has complained that the loan has been arranged in joint names with Mr C and she 
says this has created a financial link on her credit file that has caused her problems 
obtaining new credit. 
While Step One created the financial link on Mrs Cs credit report, due to the fact the loan is 
taken out in joint names, this is because of the agreement made between Mr and Mrs C and 
P. Step One has explained that it only offers second charge loans to people who are married 
in the joint names of both in the married couple. And when P arranged the loan, this was in 
both Mr and Mrs Cs names. If Mr and Mrs C feel this wasnt made clear, then this is a 
complaint about the sale of the loan, which was between Mr and Mrs C and P. But here, I 
cant find that Step One did anything wrong by arranging a loan in joint names, based on the agreement provided by P.
Service provided
Mr and Mrs C have shown they went to great lengths to try and find out the breakdown of the 
payments they had been making. Theyve shown that they contacted Step One 12 times 
before getting a satisfactory answer to this question.
Step One has explained how difficult it is to work out the proportion of each payment that is 
allocated, particularly when an overpayment is going to be made. While I understand this, I 
think it could have better dealt with their requests and explained things to Mr and Mrs C in 
their first call, in order to avoid the need for the extra time they have spent trying to get a 
satisfactory answer.
Mr and Mrs C have explained that they were both under a lot of stress at the time, due to the 
problems theyve had with the debt and in obtaining a re-mortgage. Theyve shown that they 
are both receiving treatment for mental health conditions. Due to this, I think it would have 
been particularly distressing for them to have to contact Step One so many times, before 
they got the information they needed. So I agree with our investigator that Step One should 
pay a total of £150 compensation to better reflect the level of distress this has caused them. 
Valuation of the property
Mr and Mrs C have said they arent happy with the valuation of their property made by Step 
Ones valuers. Theyve said the valuation is lower than the value of the property before they 
carried out significant renovations, so it cant be accurate. 
It isnt for me to decide what the correct value of Mr and Mrs Cs property is. But instead to 
consider if Step One has taken reasonable steps to ensure the valuation is carried out fairly 
and accurately.
Its provided us with a copy of the valuation. I can see this was carried out by a qualified 
surveyor. And they have provided detailed comments about the reasons for the valuation as 
well as three comparable properties sold in the area as a comparison. Based on this, Im 
satisfied that Step One carried out a fair process when conducting the valuation. So I dont 
think it has acted unfairly by relying on this valuation when offering the loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I require Step One Finance 
Limited to pay them a total of £150 compensation.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to accept or reject my decision 
before 10 November 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman