DRN-2931910
The complaint
Mr H complains about his insurer, Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV), in 
respect of his motor insurance policy. The complaint is about LVs quote for a new policy, 
compared to the renewal quote on his previous policy with LV. Mr H cancelled the previous 
policy when he was unable to drive for a period during Covid restrictions.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr Hs motor insurance policy and road tax were due for renewal. At the time, 
in accordance with government advice about the Covid pandemic, Mr H was remaining at 
home and hadnt driven since the start of the national lockdown. As he was unsure when he 
might resume driving, Mr H decided to take out a Statutory Off-Road Notice (SORN) on his 
vehicle as he wouldnt be driving it. Mr H also contacted LV to advise them what hed done 
and that he wouldnt be renewing his motor insurance policy, asking that it be cancelled.
By August 2020 Mr H thought it would be possible for him to resume driving, so called LV 
about restarting his policy. However, he was told that as he cancelled his policy, they 
considered him to be a new customer taking out a new policy. LV quoted Mr H £950, 
compared to the £553 renewal quote for his old policy (itself an increase of £50 compared to 
the previous year). While the quote was reduced to £925 because he also had a home 
insurance policy with LV, Mr H was unhappy at the increase.
 
Mr H complained to LV. LV rejected his complaint, saying that the new policy quote was 
based on the appropriate risk ratings and underwriting criteria. LV also said that they couldnt 
reinstate his old policy as Mr H had chosen to cancel it.
 
Mr H was unhappy at LVs response and complained to this service. The main elements of 
his complaint were the large increase in premium quoted by LV and that he would still be 
likely to have to pay a significantly higher premium if he took out a policy with another 
insurer. He asked that LV refund him the difference between the renewal quote and the cost 
of his new policy (whether with LV or another insurer).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted Mr H had been an LV customer for 
many years and his policy was a legacy policy. This meant that changes to LVs risk criteria 
that had occurred after Mr H took out his policy hadnt been applied to customers with 
policies at the time of the change, as that would have meant a substantial increase in 
premium. Once Mr H cancelled his policy that arrangement ended, meaning that any 
subsequent quotes and policies would be based on the new risk criteria. The investigator 
also concluded that Mr H had asked to cancel his policy and hadnt asked LV about 
alternatives to cancelling his policy.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said that he thought it only sensible to cancel his policy in his circumstances 
at the time. He thought that he had been treated unfairly by LV by being quoted a 
substantially higher premium for a new policy, compared to the previous renewal quote. 
Also, he wasnt made aware by LV about an option to pause his policy until he was able to 
resume driving, rather than simply cancel it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether LV has acted fairly towards Mr H.
Id also acknowledge the difficult circumstances in which Mr H found himself, and that by 
remaining at home he was following government advice. In doing so, it necessarily restricted 
his ability to drive.
 
The main part of Mr Hs complaint is that he was treated unfairly by LV because of the 
significantly higher premium he was quoted for a new policy. Ive considered what Mr H has 
told us, together with what LV have said. Ive also listened to all the conversations between 
Mr H and LV, including the one in which he cancelled his policy.
When Mr H phoned to cancel his policy, he said that hed received his renewal notice but 
wanted to cancel his policy. Mr H set out the circumstances of his vehicle being off the road 
for three months and likely to be for a further three months. He also stated that a 10% rise in 
his premium was unacceptable. He didnt ask whether there were other options, for example 
to pause his policy. LV accepted his request to cancel the policy, which they did. 
Ive also considered Mr Hs subsequent quote when he wanted to resume driving. LV had 
said that they changed their risk criteria during the time Mr H held his policy, which would 
have meant a significant increase in premium had the change been applied at the time. 
Effectively, LV applied a discount to Mr Hs policy, thereby avoiding the increase. While this 
discount applied to Mr H (and other policyholders similarly affected) it was at LVs discretion. 
Similarly, LV have confirmed that in not carrying over the discount for a new policy, it was 
acting no differently to Mr H than for other customers seeking to take out a new policy. 
Taking these points into account, I dont think that LV have acted unfairly.
Mr H said that when he cancelled his policy he wasnt aware of an option to pause his 
policy. As Ive said. Mr H didnt ask about options other than cancellation. And LV have 
confirmed that they dont offer any such option, they provide insurance on a 12-month basis, 
which is either renewed or not renewed, or otherwise cancelled. Again, I dont think theyve 
treated Mr H any differently than other customers so I cant say theyve acted unfairly.
I understand Mr Hs concern at what he feels was an unfair increase in premium in the short 
period between his renewal and obtaining a new quote. But listening to the conversation 
when he obtained a new quote, its clear that LV went through his circumstances carefully 
and asked about any changes or other factors that might have resulted in a lower quote (for 
example his estimated mileage and whether he had a dashcam). While the risk criteria and 
other factors would be determined by the underwriting guidance, I do think LV tried to obtain 
a lower quote. Again, I think that was fair and reasonable.
Ive also considered the circumstances in which Mr H was on a legacy policy. Ive 
considered what LV told us about Mr H receiving a significant discount from not 
applying the risk criteria changes that would otherwise have meant a significant 
increase in his premium. The decision to apply the discount rather than apply the risk 
criteria changes when they took place was a commercial decision by LV, in the same 
way that its a commercial decision to apply those changes (or to apply the discount, 
or any other discounts) for new business. I note Mr H told us he subsequently took 
out a new policy with LV, at a premium of £824. This would also suggest that - given the competitive nature of the insurance market - LV werent out of step with market 
trends and so werent treating Mr H unfairly or unreasonably. 
Overall, I dont think that LV have treated Mr H differently than other customers. It 
was Mr Hs clear decision to cancel his policy, partly because of his circumstances 
but also because he wasnt happy with the increase in premium at renewal. So, I 
dont think LV acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman