DRN-2770977
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Equifax Limited is reporting financial information about him. He 
says Equifax should be ensuring that information is reported correctly, but he says he has 
recently had two occasions where there have been errors with his information.
 
Mr H says he is also unhappy that his credit score dropped by 192 points and he has not 
had a clear explanation as to why this happened. 
Mr H has said Equifax is blaming a third party called CS, and CS are blaming Equifax for the 
errors and problems he is experiencing. Mr H believes someone should be looking at these 
businesses respective systems to ensure that correct checks and balances are in place to 
ensure accurate reporting  particularly given the reliance people have on their credit 
reports.
What happened
Mr H raised concerns with Equifax about a telecoms company account which continued to 
show on his credit file despite him no longer having a relationship with that provider. Mr H 
then raised concerns that a utility company was reporting on his credit file as he did not think 
that it was relevant information for a credit report. 
Equifax approached both the telecoms company and the utility company to check the 
information that was being reported. 
The telecoms company admitted the account with Mr H had been closed and so his credit 
file could be amended to reflect that  which has been done. The telecoms company also 
noted Mr H still had some remaining credit on his account and that he should contact them 
about it as this could potentially trigger the account to continue showing as open. 
The utility company confirmed it was correctly reporting information about Mr Hs account 
and should he have any queries he should contact them directly. 
Around this time Mr Hs credit score dropped by 192 points. It seems Equifax referred Mr H 
to CS to find out why this had happened and CS referred Mr H to Equifax, so this left Mr H 
unclear about what had happened and disappointed in both Equifax and CS. 
Mr H did receive a communication from Equifax which explained some of the different 
reasons that a credit score could be affected. And they referred to the removal of the 
telecoms account and addition of the utility account as likely to have influenced an 
adjustment in his score. 
Mr Hs score did later return to around its previous level, and while unhappy that the drop in 
points had happened, Mr H has not suggested that he was disadvantaged by the temporary 
fall in his score. 
Our investigator didnt think Equifax had done anything wrong. To summarise, they noted 
Equifax did not own the information they were reporting, but they had correctly questioned it 
when needed. The investigator explained to Mr H that a credit score is based on many 
factors and is only a guide as lenders will apply their own scoring systems to the information 
available on the credit reports.
Our investigator explained the utility company wouldve likely agreed with Mr H that they 
could report his information and any further concerns about how the utility company was 
using Mr Hs data could be raised separately with the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). 
The investigator also let Mr H know that as our service is not the regulator its not possible 
for us to tell Equifax to change their systems.
 
Lastly, the investigator noted that Equifax had offered Mr H £50 for the delays in responding 
to his concerns, but they did not need to comment on this. 
Mr H disagreed. He referred to previous concerns hed had with Equifax and CS where IT 
problems had caused issues with what information was being reported on his file. Mr H said 
this needed to be checked again. Mr H also felt that the £50 offer (which he hadnt accepted) 
was an admission of Equifaxs shortcomings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. 
Equifax is a credit reference agency and under our rules this means they are carrying out the 
regulated activities of providing credit information and credit references.
 
CS is not a credit reference agency, but it uses the information held by Equifax to provide 
other services to CS customers  such as being able to view information held on credit files 
and provide a score which can be used as a guide for creditworthiness. Equifax have their 
own credit score, which is separate to CSs score.
 
Its important to note that my considerations are limited to what Equifax has done here. And 
that Mr H understands my remit is only to look at the individual circumstances of his 
complaint. That means, it is not for me to interfere with the wider processes and systems 
that Equifax have in place to run their business. Should Mr H wish to, he can highlight any 
wider concerns to the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  although I would 
note the FCA do not involve themselves in individual cases and will merely take a record of 
Mr Hs concerns and act if they deem it appropriate to do so. 
As a credit reference agency it is Equifaxs role to hold data about the credit history of 
individuals and businesses in credit files. As our investigator explained, this information is 
gathered from public sources such as local authorities or the courts, and from private 
sources such as banks and credit card companies. It is also becoming more common for 
utility companies to provide information to show an individuals payment history in return for 
an ongoing service.
 Third parties provide Equifax with information about an individuals credit/ payment history 
taken from their respective systems. It is therefore for the third parties to ensure this 
information is correct. There is nothing that requires Equifax to have something in place to 
continually monitor the accuracy of an individuals credit file information  Equifax does not 
have access to the various third parties systems. However, Equifax can approach a relevant 
party to raise queries/ disputes if something is highlighted to them as being incorrect  which 
is what they did in this case.
So it is not for Equifax to change any information they hold unless it is agreed by the third 
party which is responsible for that information. 
In Mr Hs case, due to Mr Hs concerns, Equifax contacted both the telecoms company and 
the utility company to ensure information Equifax were reporting was correct. This is as 
much as I would expect Equifax to do in the circumstances, so I cant say Equifax has done 
anything wrong here. If Mr H still has disputes with either the telecoms company or the utility 
company about the information being reported then he should approach them directly.
 
Mr H also raised concerns about his credit score dropping. I understand this is to do with the 
score that shows on CSs system. As this is a complaint about Equifax Ive therefore not 
considered CSs actions as part of this complaint. 
However, in general, Im mindful that seeing a drop in a credit score could cause upset and 
confusion for someone, particularly where there is no clear and direct causal link - it makes it 
difficult for someone to know how to correct things. And if it happens, as Mr H has sensibly 
done in this case, it is worth checking the credit report to ensure that the details held are 
correct and up to date. As there are several factors that can affect an individuals credit 
score, it is not always obvious why a score may have dropped and I note that Equifax has 
made suggestions in this case.
It is also worth noting that the scores provided by credit reference agencies are not what 
lenders themselves rely on when deciding to agree credit for someone. When making their 
decision lenders will apply their own values and scoring system against the information held 
on a credit file, together with other things such as the individuals application and what else 
they may already know about an applicant. Whats important is that the information held on 
the credit file is correct and up to date. 
Mr H has also suggested that previous IT problems Equifax experienced and their offer of 
£50 should be considered indicators of Equifaxs wrongdoing here. I disagree. The £50 offer 
relates to a customer service issue around delays in responding to Mr Hs complaint  so 
this is not an admission that Equifax did something wrong in how they were reporting his 
information. And there have been no suggestions that Equifax have been experiencing wider 
issues with their IT systems at the time in question.
I dont make any comment on the £50 for poor customer service as how Equifax handled   
Mr Hs complaint is not a regulated activity under our rules and not something our service 
can consider. 
In this case, Mr H queried the information held on his credit file and there has been an 
amendment to whats being recorded for him. However, this is not Equifaxs error as they are 
reliant on the information third parties supply them with. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr Hs complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman