DRN-1800848
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the suitability of the advice that Aviva Life and Pensions UK 
Limited (Aviva) gave her to invest in a whole of life policy. She is unhappy as she says she 
wanted a policy that would provide a lump sum at the end of the term.
What happened
Mrs B took out a Maximum Protection Plan with Aviva in 1988. The whole of life policy was 
sold to Mrs B with advice so on an advised basis, meaning that Aviva are responsible for the 
suitability of the policy to Mrs Bs needs at the time. The policy has a sum assured of just 
under £25,000 for a £15 monthly premium. Whilst the policy is reviewable, it appears no 
changes have been made since inception.  
Mrs B complained to Aviva after she was made aware that the surrender value was low 
compared to how much she had paid into it.
When it considered her complaint, Aviva was satisfied that as a standard cover policy it had 
performed in line with the projections given. And while there is no copy of the fact find or 
recommendation letter available, the illustration and policy booklet which Mrs B would have 
received at the start of the policy would have made it clear how the policy worked.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt
be upheld. She felt that whilst there was limited information from the point of sale, Mrs B has 
said she wanted life cover that would also provide a lump sum in the future. She felt the 
policy was suitable to those needs and that the documentation we have seen, explained how 
the policy works. 
Mrs B remained unhappy and said that she could have got a lot more for her premium 
through another policy. As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I realise Mrs B feels strongly about this matter, and it must be frustrating for her to see her 
policys surrender value is not much more than the premiums she has paid from 1988. But, 
my role is to decide if Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way in 
recommending the policy. And I dont believe it has done so.
As the investigator noted, the main objective of this policy was to provide life cover for   
Mrs B. Whilst the surrender value of the policy may not be considered significant, the sum 
assured is much higher. This is because the main aim of the policy is to provide life 
protection. It was not sold as a savings vehicle. Also, its important to note that insurers 
are on risk from the outset of the policy which means that even if a small amount of 
premiums are paid into the policy the full claim benefit would have been paid out. 
Given how long ago this policy was sold its not surprising there is limited information 
available about it. This inevitably impacts on my ability to assess what was discussed at the 
time. However, I can see Mrs B completed a questionnaire when she rasied the complaint 
with Aviva. This sets out what she remembers as being her needs were when she took the 
policy out all those years ago. In this questionairre she has explained that she wanted a 
fixed term policy that provided life protection and an ability to cover funeral costs. 
Apart from this, and as Ive already explained, I have no documentation showing Mrs B had 
explained these specific objectives at the time of the sale. And while I have taken account of 
what Mrs B has said in this quetsionaire I also need to be mindful of the fact that Mrs B 
completed this recently, where-as the sale took place over 30 years ago. I also know that 
Mrs B would have been given the policy information at the time of the sale which I am 
satisfied wouldve clearly set out what the policy was, that it had no end date and what sort 
of protection it provided. Its reasonable, in my view, that Mrs B would have read this at the 
time of the sale, therefore she should have known the type of policy she was taking back 
then.
Its also worth pointing out that a fixed term policy would not have given her the ability to 
cover her funeral coststs and if she had taken an endowment there would have been only a 
small amount of life cover (as life protection on endowment policies are minimal and only 
included to make the payment under the policy tax efficient). Also there would have been no 
gurantee that the endowment would have provided the sum assurred that had been set at 
outset.
Furthermore, as the investigator pointed out an endowment policy for the same monthly 
premium would have provided a much smaller sum assured 
Overall, therefore, while I appreciate what Mrs B has said I dont think the whole of life policy 
was wholly unsuitable for her given the informtaion I have considerd. As life cover was one 
of her priorities, an endowment policy would not have been a more suitable 
recommendation. And there was no policy available at that time that would have met all the 
needs Mrs B has said she had in the recent questionaire she completed.
So, in all the circumstances and while I recognise that Mrs B will be very disappointed, Im 
unable to conclude that Aviva has acted incorrectly or unreasonably.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman