DRN-3483666
The complaint
Mr J complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Ltd (trading as Argos Financial 
Services) did not credit his account when he returned an item.
What happened
Mr J says that he returned a thermostat he bought on 4 July 2021 for £179. He says his 
credit card account was never credited and the balance is incorrect and is now incurring 
interest. Mr J adds that he has had to make multiple trips to various Argos stores, as well as 
spending hours on the phone and the issue is still unresolved.
Argos says it liaised with Argos Direct and in-store colleagues but found no evidence of the 
return. It says the transaction is now accruing charges as it was on a Buy Now Pay Later 
deal and was not cleared by the due date. Argos also reviewed the calls and apologised that 
two of them were prolonged. It sent Mr J a cheque for £25 for the inconvenience.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found no clear 
evidence that Argos had made an error.
Mr J responded to say, in summary, that he was not given a receipt, nor offered an email 
receipt. He said he returned two items at the same time but only one was credited and that 
CCTV should be used as evidence. Mr J adds that the staff member was preoccupied at the 
time and he believes an error was made with the process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, or contradictory, as it is here, I must make my decision 
based on the balance of probability  that is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
Mr J says he returned the thermostat on 4 August 2021, alongside a doorbell, also priced at 
£179. Only the doorbell was credited to Mr Js credit card account, but he did not notice this 
until the thermostat was due for payment in January 2022, after the Buy Now Pay Later deal.
Argos has provided evidence that:
Its systems only show the doorbell being returned for £179 on 4 August 2021, for 
which a paper receipt was provided;
It checked other dates and the thermostat does not show as being returned since its 
purchase;
It confirmed the same with its retail colleagues;
It itemised all Mr Js Buy Now Pay Later items on each monthly credit card 
statement;
Argos has said it will credit the item if Mr J can show a receipt, but it says it no longer has 
CCTV footage available from that time.
Mr J initially told Argos he had lost the receipt but is now saying he was never given one and 
wasnt offered an email receipt. Argoss records confirm that no email receipt was sent using 
Mr Js details, but that a paper receipt was produced for the doorbell.
I acknowledge Mr J says the girl who served him was distracted at the time he returned the 
items, but evidence received from Argos indicates that the doorbell return was actioned by a 
male customer service agent.
Based on all the evidence Ive seen, I consider its more likely than not that the checks 
carried out by Argos would have shown a discrepancy if the thermostat had been returned. 
As they did not, I cannot conclude Argos has made an error here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman