DRN-3113257
The complaint
Mr K has complained about charges applied by Vauxhall Finance plc under a conditional 
sale agreement.
What happened
In October 2017 Mr K acquired a new car under a conditional sale agreement with 
Vauxhall Finance. The car cost around £14,800. 
Mr K decided to voluntarily terminate the agreement in June 2020. And the car was picked 
up from him later that month. In July 2020 Vauxhall Finance contacted Mr K to let him know 
it was charging him £1,350 in relation to damage to the car and missing service history, 
along with a £100 collection fee. 
Mr K was unhappy to be contacted a few weeks after the car was handed back. And he 
complained and said the damage wasnt there when the car was collected, so 
Vauxhall Finance sent him a copy of the inspection report. Mr K didnt agree, and said the 
car was in perfect condition when it was handed back. He says the collection agent told him 
everything was in perfect order. So he complained about the damage charges.
Vauxhall Finance responded to the complaint and agreed to remove two of the charges. This 
left Mr K owing a total sum of £1,150. Mr K wasnt happy so brought the complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked in to the complaint but ultimately didnt uphold it. She reviewed all 
the damage charges against the pictures of the damage and thought they were all fairly 
chargeable. Vauxhall Finance supplied two inspection reports. It says the first was done 
when the car was collected from Mr K and that he signed it. And it supplied another 
inspection, with photos, that it says was carried out two days later at the return address 
(about 30 miles from the collection point). So based on everything she had, she didnt think 
Vauxhall Finance needed to take any action. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said he wasnt disputing there was damage on the car, but he says it 
wasnt there when he handed the car back. He says hed never seen the report completed 
when the car was collected and disputed signing it. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the case has been given to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K acquired the car using a regulated conditional sale agreement, and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
The car was brand new when it was supplied to Mr K, so I think its reasonable to assume it 
was supplied free from even minor defects. 
Mr K doesnt seem to be disputing there was damage on the car, but hes said the damage 
wasnt there when it was handed back. And hes said the collection agent told him everything 
was in order. Vauxhall Finance on the other hand has provided two inspection reports. It 
says one was completed when the car was collected, and one was completed a couple of 
days later at the return address. So the evidence is conflicting.  
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ill never know what was discussed between Mr K and the collection agent. But based on the 
evidence submitted, I think the damage was likely there when Mr K handed the car back. 
The first evidence Ill turn to is the report that Vauxhall Finance says was completed when 
the car was picked up. The report doesnt come with photos, but the inspector has marked 
on a diagram of a car the areas of damage. 
Mr K has disputed there was a collection report completed when the car was picked up from 
him. And he says he doesnt recognise the signature. On his complaint form he says I 
disagreed and said the car had no damage when it left my possession and I had signed for 
that. So it does sounds like Mr K has agreed he signed something. Ive not been provided 
with anything else from the collection date that was signed, and I think the most likely 
document to have been signed was the collection report. 
Mr K has also inferred he doesnt agree the signature is his on the collection report. Again, 
Ill never know whether Mr K signed it or not but, as Ive said above, it looks like he signed 
something. The difference in expected signatures might be because the report was likely 
completed on a tablet  a common method when cars are handed back. 
Ive also considered the report that was completed a couple of days later. This report comes 
with photos of damage to the car. Aside from one area of damage on the roof, the damage 
the collection agent recorded correlates with the damage highlighted on the second 
inspection. 
I think its also important to note damage is recorded on several wheels and panels. 
Vauxhall Finance ultimately noted seven areas of chargeable damage. It would be very 
unusual for all the damage to have taken place after the car was handed back within a 
couple of days prior to the second inspection. Im told the car was only driven about 30 miles 
to the return address after it was collected. I dont think I can say the most likely thing to 
have happened is that all the damage on the various wheels and panels happened after the 
car was picked up  which is what I need to decide. 
Of course, the collection agent may have taken the car in perfect condition, damaged the 
wheels and various panels, and then forged Mr Ks signature on a collection report. Mr K 
may have signed another document. But, I dont think thats the most likely thing to have 
happened. So, as a starting point, while I know itll disappoint Mr K, I think it more likely than 
not the collection report was completed when the car was picked up. And, for the reasons 
given above, on balance, I think the damage was there when the car was handed back. 
While I know Mr K brought a different complaint, given Ive found the damage was likely 
there when the car was handed back, Ive next gone on to think about whether the charges 
Vauxhall Finance is applying are fair in the circumstances. The terms and conditions of the conditional sale agreement Mr K entered into say he had the 
right to voluntarily terminate the agreement and if hed paid 50% of the total amount payable 
he wouldnt have to pay any more, providing hed taken reasonable care of the goods. The 
terms and conditions also set out that if the agreement is terminated the car should be 
returned in good condition with records of a full service history. And it also says that Mr K 
would have to pay the cost of all repairs required to put the vehicle into good and serviceable 
repair and condition. So I think Vauxhall Finance was fairly able to charge Mr K for any 
damage that wasnt considered fair wear and tear. 
Mr K has indicated he doesnt agree with the damage charges. Hes not said he doesnt 
agree with the charge for the missing service history. So my decision focuses on the 
damage charges. 
The British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) issues industry guidelines on 
fair wear and tear. It is predominantly most relevant for vehicles that are generally under five 
years old and that have been handed back after their first leasing cycle  as is the case here 
given Mr K was supplied the car from new. Vauxhall Finance uses the BVRLA guidance 
when considering whats fair wear and tear. Its industry guidance, and I also think its fair for 
me to consider when deciding this complaint. 
Our investigator set out why she thought Vauxhall Finance applied the charges fairly. And, 
for broadly the same reasons, I agree. 
Turning first to the wheels. The BVRLA guidance says: Scuffs up to 50mm on the total 
circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. The guidance also says: 
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. 
In Mr Ks case, Vauxhall Finance is charging a total of £180 in relation to damage on three of 
the wheels. I think all three photos on the inspection report show scuffs that exceed 50mm. 
So I dont find Vauxhall Finance is acting unfairly by charging for the damage. And I dont 
consider £60 per wheel to be an unreasonable charge. 
Ive next looked at the charge for the dent in the roof. The photos on the inspection report 
show a dent as well as a scratch thats over 25mm. Given the BVRLA guidance says: Dents 
on the roof or on the swage line of any panel are not acceptable and that scratches above 
25mm arent acceptable I dont consider its unreasonable that Vauxhall Finance has 
charged £175 for the damage.
Vauxhall Finance is also charging for damage to the front and rear bumper. Ive already set 
out that the BVRLA considers scratches over 25mm to be unacceptable and both photos 
clearly show scratches larger than this. Vauxhall Finance has charged £125 per scratch, 
which I dont think is unreasonable. 
The final charge relates to a dent in the bonnet. The BVRLA guidance says: Dents of 15mm 
or less in diameter are acceptable providing there are no more than two per panel and the 
paint surface is not broken. The photo on the inspection report indicates theres a dent larger 
than this, so I dont think Vauxhall Finance has acted unfairly by charging for it. And I dont 
find the charge of £175 unreasonable. 
For completeness sake, I also dont think the delay in sending Mr K the inspection report 
has had a significant impact here. The report was sent within a few weeks of the inspection 
having been carried out, which I dont think is unreasonable. 
All things considered, while I know itll disappoint Mr K, on balance, I think the damage was 
there when the car was collected. And I think Vauxhall Finance has raised charges that are 
fair. Vauxhall Finance has already agreed to remove two charges Ive not mentioned above but, for the reasons given above, I dont find I have the grounds to direct it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman