DRN-2859313
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that U K Insurance Limited refused to refund their premium in 
relation to their travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes reference to its agents. 
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had travel insurance as a benefit of a current account. The chronology of 
events is important here and is summarised below:
3 August 2019 Mr H called UKI and bought a medical upgrade for the policy 
year to 26 August 2020. 
5 August 2019 Mr H closed his related current account.
7 August 2019 Mr Hs current account provider told UKI that the related 
current account was closed on 5 August 2019.
8 August 2019 UKI says it sent Mr H a letter informing him that his travel 
policy would be cancelled as he no longer had the related 
current account. Mr H says that he didnt receive that letter.
27 August 2019 UKI took a payment of £115.90 for the medical upgrade.
3 August 2020 Mr H called UKI to enquire about renewal as he hadnt 
received a renewal notification. UKI told him that his policy 
had been cancelled on 9 September 2019.
Mr H says that in late July 2019, he was told that when the travel insurance policy was 
up for renewal in August 2019, he wasnt eligible for it. So, he contacted UKI in order to 
purchase a policy and was quoted a premium of £115.90 for the policy year to        
August 2020. When UKI took the payment, he assumed that hed bought annual travel 
insurance. In August 2020, UKI told Mr H that his policy had been cancelled on               
9 September 2019. Mr and Mrs H want a refund of the premium they paid in August 
2019, as they say no policy was in place.
In its final response to Mr H, UKI said that as he hadnt replied to its letter of                     
8 August 2019, it cancelled the policy. UKI changed its position and now says that, in 
error, it didnt cancel the policy in 2019. It says that during the course of Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint, it cancelled the policy from inception, but that as cover was in place for the 
policy year to August 2020, its not required to refund the premium, as Mr and Mrs H had 
the benefit of the policy. It also says that it made an error in telling Mr M on                     
3 August 2020 that the policy wasnt in force. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said initially that UKI made 
an error in taking the premium after the policy had been cancelled but it wasnt required 
to refund the premium, as cover was in place up to August 2020. Mr and Mrs H didnt 
agree with the investigator. Mr H said that UKI cancelled the policy then took a premium 
for a policy which wasnt in place. 
The investigator looked at the matter again. She said that once the policy was cancelled, 
UKI should have refunded the premium, as it was no longer on risk. The investigator said 
that before it took the premium, UKI was aware that Mr and Mrs H were ineligible for the 
policy, as the related current account was closed. She said that its unlikely that UKI 
would have dealt with any claim by Mr and Mrs H for the policy year to August 2020, as 
its system notes show that the policy wasnt in force. The investigator recommended that 
UKI refund the policy premium and pay interest. 
UKI didnt agree with the investigator. It said that the August 2019 to August 2020 policy 
wasnt cancelled: it made an error in failing to cancel the policy. So, Mr and Mrs H had 
cover in place and travelled in that policy year, so no refund is due. UKI said that when 
Mr H spoke with UKI on 3 August 2020, it said that no cover was in place, but that wasnt 
correct.   
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator in her second view for these 
reasons:
Theres been considerable confusion in this case. When Mr H phoned UKI on           
3 August 2019, he was aware that he and Mrs H were about to become ineligible for 
the policy as a benefit of his current account. Mr H believed that he was buying a 
new policy for the policy year to August 2020. But at that point, UKI didnt know that 
Mr and Mrs H were about to become ineligible for the policy. It sold Mr H a medical 
upgrade to his policy for the year to August 2020. The policy documents confirm that 
Mr H bought a medical upgrade to the policy he had as a benefit of his current 
account.  
In its final response letter of 2 September 2020 to Mr H, UKI says that as it didnt 
receive a response to its letter of 8 August 2019, it cancelled Mr and Mrs Hs policy. 
UKIs system notes show that Mr and Mrs Hs policy was cancelled on                       
9 September 2019. And when Mr H phoned UKI on 3 August 2020, it told him that it 
had cancelled the policy on 9 September 2019. 
UKI now says that  it made an error in not cancelling Mr and Mrs Hs policy and that it 
in fact remained in force until September 2020. Thats beyond the policy renewal 
date. UKI hasnt explained why the policy would remain in force up to September 
2020. And it cant provide any evidence that the policy was in place for the policy 
year to August 2020. It says thats because, after Mr H complained in August 2020, 
the policy was cancelled from inception. 
Considering everything, on balance, I dont think that I can safely conclude that       
Mr and Mrs Hs policy remained in place for the policy year to August 2020 such that 
UKI would have dealt with a claim arising in that period. I see no reason why UKI 
wouldnt have responded to any claim in the same way that it responded to Mr H in 
August 2020: by telling him that the policy had been cancelled on 9 September 2019, 
as thats what its system notes showed. If Mr and Mrs H had made a claim against the policy in the policy year to           
August 2020, I think that UKI would have been entitled to decline to deal with it. 
Thats because Mr and Mrs H werent eligible for the policy and UKI had written to 
them in August 2019 telling them that it was going to cancel the policy. I appreciate 
that Mr H says that he didnt receive that letter, but Im satisfied that it was sent. UKI 
isnt responsible for any failings in the postal service. So, as UKI wouldnt have been 
obliged to deal with any claim from Mr and Mrs H, I think its right  and fair and 
reasonable  for it to refund the premium Mr H paid. 
In all the circumstances, I think that its fair and reasonable for UKI to refund the 
premium Mr H paid for the medical upgrade on renewal. As Mr and Mrs H have been 
kept out of the use of that money, it should also pay interest. 
For these reasons, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Putting things right
UKI should now refund £115.90 to Mr and Mrs H and pay interest on this amount at the 
simple rate of 8% per year, from the date Mr H made the payment, to the date UKI makes 
the payment.
HM Revenue & Customs requires UKI to take off tax from this interest. UKI must give          
Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I now require                              
U K Insurance Limited to take the steps Ive set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman