DRN-3383991
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that BUPA Insurance Limited refused their request for a refund of 
part of the premium or an extension of cover in relation to their private medical insurance. 
Reference to BUPA includes reference to its predecessor.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs O have private medical insurance with BUPA. The 
annual membership relevant here began in January 2020.
On 23 March 2020, the UK government imposed national lockdown as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Many private doctors and hospitals were supporting the NHS and 
access to private health care was limited. In May 2020, the UK government lifted the 
lockdown in part and whilst some services resumed, not all private health care options 
were available. 
In December 2020, Mr O complained to BUPA. Mr and Mrs O say that they paid for 
cover for a year but from the end of March 2020 to the beginning of October 2020, very 
little private health care was available, so the cover was reduced or non-existent.            
Mr and Mrs O want either a six month extension to their cover or a refund of one half of 
their premium. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that BUPA had 
treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly or unreasonably. The investigator said that the terms of 
the policy didnt entitle Mr and Mrs O to a refund of premium or an extension of cover if 
the policy benefits arent used. She thought that the availability of private medical 
practices was outside BUPAs control. The investigator said that BUPA hadnt found a 
reduction in claims over the policy year. She thought that BUPA had acted in accordance 
with the policy terms and fairly and reasonably in this case.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree with the investigator. Mr O responded to say that he didnt 
understand how this isnt a breach of contract. He said that he paid for cover for a year 
but wasnt covered for part of the year. Mr O thought that BUPA should reinsure for 
unforeseen events. He said that it would have been reasonable to expect an increase in 
claims in the exceptional circumstances of Covid-19, so the fact that BUPA saw no 
increase in claims equates to a reduction in claims. Mr O thinks that BUPA should offer a 
refund of premium for the period when it operated outside the normal terms of the 
contract. 
The investigator considered what had been said but didnt change her view. Mr O said 
that Mrs O was due to visit a hospital for a procedure which was postponed then 
cancelled but he didnt think that added to the substance of his complaint. As there was 
no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think that BUPA treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly. Ill explain why: 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Os membership provide that their cover is 
for one year and that the premium must be paid for BUPA to provide cover during 
that year. Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of uncertain events over 
the duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium 
paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no successful claim has been made. 
BUPA provided cover for Mr and Mrs O from January to December 2020.                
Mr and Mrs O would have been able to avail themselves of the full benefits for a 
significant proportion of the policy year. BUPA is entitled to retain the premium it 
charged to cover the risk of Mr and Mrs O making a claim during the year. 
Theres no term in Mr and Mrs Os contract with BUPA that requires BUPA to refund 
the premium in part or extend cover if it becomes difficult to access private treatment. 
I dont think that BUPA treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly or unreasonably in declining to 
do so here. Thats because I wouldnt expect an insurer to refund part of a premium 
or extend cover if treatment was unavailable due to circumstances outside its control 
 which was what happened here. And I understand that BUPA has treated all of its 
members in the same way, so I dont think that it singled Mr and Mrs O out unfairly. 
Mr O says that Mrs O had a procedure postponed then cancelled. I think that in the 
unprecedented circumstances arising out of Covid-19 some disruption in provision 
was inevitable but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that means that BUPA 
is required to refund part of Mr and Mrs Os premium or extend their cover. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman