DRN-3721646
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car he bought using his Halifax credit card did not have agreed issues 
fixed before it was delivered to him. He has had to pay for repairs to the car and, because he 
paid for part of the cost of the car using his credit card issued by Bank of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax, he says Halifax should reimburse him.
What happened
Mr F bought a second-hand car in August 2020. The car was around eight years old and had 
been driven nearly 70,000 miles. Mr F paid for part of the cost of the car using his Halifax 
credit card.
He says that, before hed paid for the car, it failed an MOT. He says the supplying garage, 
which Ill refer to as H, agreed to carry out the necessary repairs. But he says when the car 
was delivered to him there was a clunking noise and that the spring bearing hadnt been 
replaced. He also says the car was due a major service in September 2012 and that H had 
agreed to complete this before Mr F bought the car. He says theres no evidence that a 
service was carried out. 
He complained to H but couldnt get it to take any action, so he took the car to an 
independent third-party garage. That garage carried out the repairs and Mr F wants to be 
reimbursed for the cost - £271.86, plus the cost of a full service.
Mr F contacted Halifax to make a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. 
Halifax declined Mr Fs claim. It said there wasnt enough evidence to show that H agreed to 
carry out any work in addition to that evidenced in an invoice. It apologised for not returning 
Mr Fs call as promised and sent him a cheque for £75 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Halifax had acted unfairly because there wasnt enough evidence to show thered been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr F didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
H sent him a text saying it had carried out a service. But theres no evidence this has 
been done, and H doesnt have its own garage facilities.
The invoice H supplied to show work had been carried out doesnt include an invoice or 
VAT number, so is invalid.
And he provided photographs which he says shows that the work was only partially 
carried out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in this case is that, if Mr F has a 
claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against H, he has a like claim against 
Halifax. In order to decide whether Halifax has treated Mr F fairly, therefore, I have 
considered how section 75 might apply in this case.
Ill deal first with Mr Fs claim that the car was misrepresented to him, because H didnt carry 
out the repair work as agreed, or a service. A misrepresentation is a statement of fact or law 
made by one contracting party to another, which is untrue, and which induces the other party 
into entering into the contract.
Mr F says the car failed an MOT and H agreed to carry out the necessary repairs. I can see 
that the car did fail an MOT on 14 August 2020 because:
Offside Front Coil spring fractured or broken; and
Nearside Rear Wheel bearing has excessive play.
H supplied an invoice from a third-party garage which shows the following work:
Supply and fit a new wheel bearing to N/S/R
Fit a new coil spring to O/S/F (part supplied)
The invoice is undated, but an MOT was carried out at the same time, so its more likely than 
not that the work was carried out after the first, failed, MOT and before the second MOT on 
17 August 2020, which the car passed.
Im satisfied that H agreed to carry out the repairs necessary for the car to pass the MOT. 
And the invoice and the successful MOT test evidence it did this. Im satisfied that the 
invoice is genuine, and Im persuaded by that, rather than the photographs Mr F has 
provided. Im not persuaded that H agreed to carry out any additional repairs or 
maintenance, so I dont find a misrepresentation took place.
Mr F says the car should have been serviced before he bought it. He says it was due a 
major service in September 2020, including replacing the timing chain. Hes provided various 
text and email exchanges, one of which refers to the service book being stamped. Ive not 
seen enough evidence to persuade me that H said it would carry out the full service due in 
September 2020. So, again, I dont find this was misrepresented.
Ive gone on to consider whether Halifax should have reimbursed Mr F for the cost of the car 
because of a breach of contract.
The effect of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 is that Mr Fs contract with H was to be read as 
including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. That means 
the quality a reasonable person would expect in the circumstances. Those circumstances 
include matters such as age, mileage, and price.
As already mentioned, the car in this case was around eight years old and had covered 
nearly 70,000 miles when Mr F bought it. It was priced very much lower than a newer model 
would have been.
In my view, it was quite likely that a car of that age and mileage would already have been 
subject to significant wear and tear. It was to be expected that, even within a relatively short 
period of time, it might need repairs which went beyond normal maintenance. They might be significant and expensive, relative to the sale price. And I believe that all the repairs that 
were needed were matters of wear and tear which were consistent with the cars age and 
mileage. I think it was reasonable therefore of Halifax to take the view that the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of delivery and to decline the section 75 claim.
I stress that, in reaching this conclusion, I am not deciding whether H was in breach of 
contract. My decision about whether Halifax treated him fairly when he made a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act and, for the reasons Ive explained, Ive found that it 
has.
Halifax sent Mr F a cheque for £75 because it failed to return one of his calls as promised. 
Mr F says Halifax suffered a massive glitch which led to a nine-month delay. I can see that 
Halifax didnt send a final response to his complaint until January 2022. But Im satisfied that 
it had told Mr F it had declined his section 75 claim and Mr F hadnt provided any additional 
evidence to change its stance. So, whilst there does seem to have been a long period when 
Halifax didnt get in contact with Mr F, I dont find this has made a difference to the overall 
outcome here. And I find £75 is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman