DRN-2718315
The complaint
Mr N complains that Gain Credit LLC  trading as Lending Stream lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from the Lending Stream records, here is a brief loan table of the 
approved loans. 
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowedtermhighest 
repayment
(rounded)income
1 08/08/2017 28/02/2018 £400 6m £149 £1,800
2 31/10/2017 outstanding £390 6m £276 £1,400
3 10/01/2018 outstanding £250 6m £252 £1,600
After Mr N had complained to Lending Stream, it responded with its final response letter 
(FRL) in which it did think that it needed to put things right for Mr N in relation to Loan 3. 
Mr N told us that he rejected that offer and referred the complaint to this Service in 
March 2020. Lending Stream has confirmed to us that this offer on loan 3 remains available 
to Mr N. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not review Loan 3 as it was not in 
dispute. He thought that Lending Stream did not need to do anything in relation to loans 1 
and 2. 
Mr N disagreed as he thought the adjudicator didnt take into account what he explained was 
his largely negative credit file showing he was dependant on other high cost credit and short 
term loans. Mr N did not feel proportionate checks were carried out. 
Our adjudicators second view explained further that the proportionate checks he would have 
expected Lending Stream to have carried out for Loans 1 and 2 were carried out. So, he 
made no alteration to his opinion. Mr N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review it. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance 
and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr N could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a 
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable, but I do not think this is relevant to Mr Ns 
circumstances as he took three loans over five months. This is too short a period to create a 
pattern of lending.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr N could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) defines sustainable as being the ability to repay without undue difficulties. The 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments, and without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint.
The important point to commence with is that Lending Stream has agreed to uphold Loan 3, 
and so although I have not reviewed the circumstances surrounding that loan approval, it is 
logical that I endorse that offer and recommend that Mr N accepts it. I do think that the 
calculations need to be updated by Lending Stream to bring them up to the date that Mr N 
accepts that offer  assuming he does. 
I have reviewed Loans 1 and 2 considering Mr Ns comments. I understand that he feels that 
Lending Stream ought to have done more before approving Loans 1 and 2. But, as our 
adjudicator has explained, and as I have outlined above, this would be disproportionate. 
I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint about Loans 1 and 2 and I do not think that Lending Stream 
needed to do more than it did using the information from Mr N and its own credit search 
results. 
I endorse the offer from Lending Stream for Loan 3 so long as the figures are recalculated to 
bring them up to date. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint in relation to Loans 1 and 2. 
Lending Stream needs to follow through with its offer on Loan 3 with updated calculations. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman