DRN-3263551
The complaint
Mr F complains about the decision of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) to 
decline his claim for loss of income following interruption to his business due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr F is a self-employed swim teacher with membership of a professional body. This 
professional body had an insurance policy underwritten by RSA. The policy provided a 
number of areas of cover, including for business interruption. The policy covered insured 
losses of any swimming teacher or coach affiliated to the professional body. 
So, the policy provided cover for Mr Fs loss of income due to business interruption caused, 
subject to the terms of the policy. And, as a potential beneficiary of this policy, Mr F is able to 
bring his complaint about the decision on his claim to this service.
Mr F provided teaching in two swimming pools owned by, and sited on the premises of, two 
schools. Mr F did not work for the schools, but rather provided lessons in the pools over the 
weekend. It seems the pools were open to pupils of the school and non-pupils at certain 
times. 
In March 2020, these pools had to close following the government-imposed measures to 
limit the spread of COVID-19. As a result, Mr Fs business was interrupted and he contacted 
RSA to claim. Much of the correspondence around the claim involved a third party, but as 
RSA is responsible for the decision on the claim, I have just referred to RSA for the sake of 
simplicity.
RSA declined the claim. Largely, this was because it didnt consider Mr F had demonstrated 
that the insured premises had been closed as a result of an occurrence of COVID-19 on 
those premises. Mr F disagreed and provided evidence to support there having been such 
an occurrence. 
When RSA didnt alter its stance, Mr F brough his complaint to this service. But our 
Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was not persuaded by the 
evidence Mr F could supply that there was a relevant occurrence of COVID-19. 
As Mr F remains unsatisfied his complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mr F, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
The type of cover Mr F is looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There 
are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. 
For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others 
provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The 
starting point is to consider the specific policy Mr F took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Mr Fs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Mr Fs business.
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Mr Fs claim. And I think 
RSA acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Mr Fs claim under this area of cover.
The policy does contain a non-damage denial of access term. But this does not provide 
cover in the circumstances of Mr Fs claim either. There are a number of reasons for this, but 
the clearest one is that the extension says it does not cover any consequence of infectious 
or contagious disease. COVID-19 is an infectious or contagious disease, and it is the 
consequences of this disease that has led to the claim. So, I dont consider RSA should 
have met Mr Fs claim under this extension either. 
The last extension I shall specifically refer to is the one that has been the focus of the 
parties arguments. This is the Infectious Diseases extension. The wording for this extension 
is found in the policy schedule and it provides cover for business interruption resulting from:
closure of the Premises or part thereof on the order or advice of any local or 
governmental authority as a result of an outbreak or occurrence at the premises of
1. any human contagious or infectious disease other than Acquired Deficiency 
Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related condition an outbreak of which is required 
by law or stipulated by the government authority to be notified

COVID-19 falls within the diseases covered under 1, but in order for a claim to be covered 
this disease must have occurred at the premises and this must have led to a relevant 
authority directing the premises to close.
At this point it is useful to set out what these premises are. As mentioned, Mr F worked at 
two sites. These were on the premises of two schools. But the schedule to the policy defined 
Premises as: Any Swimming pool within the United Kingdom which is the place of work of 
any insured Members. The policy wording contains a differently worded definition of 
Premises saying this is: The premises owned, occupied, leased or rented by the 
Policyholder as stated in the Schedule. But I do not think Mr F rented the entire schools to 
provide his swim classes. Instead, I think its most likely he only rented the swimming pools 
which were his places of work. I also should say at this point that Mr F has given the relevant date of closure as 
20 March 2020. The requirement for schools to close was made by the Prime Minister on 
18 March. And it was on 20 March that leisure centres, etc. were then directed to close. So, 
it seems that the schools where the swimming pools Mr F worked at would have been closed 
on 18 March, but that the swimming pools themselves were able to remain open for 
non-school use until their closure on 20 March. As Mr Fs first day of loss was 21 March, 
this is only relevant to the fact that the insured premises are the pools themselves, rather 
than the entire schools. 
Ultimately, I consider the insured premises are not the entire premises of the schools, rather 
the swimming pools within those schools. 
It is for Mr F to evidence that he has a valid claim. So, in relation to the current claim, he 
must show that COVID-19 occurred at the swimming pools that he worked at, and that this 
then led to their closure. 
Mr F has provided some evidence that COVID-19 occurred. He has provided an email from 
another swimming teacher, L, dated 25 March 2020. This says that L has had to 
self-isolate following advice from NHS 111 due to COVID-19 clinical features. The email 
does not provide any detail of what these clinical features were, nor the date L first suffered 
from them. Mr F has been unable to obtain further details from L. 
Whilst I recognise that it can be difficult for claimants to obtain the evidence they need to 
support their claim, it is for the claimants to first establish that they have a valid claim. 
In this case, the email from L does not confirm what symptoms she had. So, it is not clear to 
me that she was most likely suffering from COVID-19. We know that NHS 111 was, at the 
time, advising many people to self-isolate if they were suffering from symptoms that might 
have been COVID-19. But it also seems clear that this approach was overly cautious and 
that many of the people it gave this advice to were not actually suffering from the disease. 
Without knowing more about Ls symptoms, it is not possible for me to comment further on 
whether I consider she had most likely sustained COVID-19. 
I will though also say that L worked on a similar basis to Mr F, so it seems L would have last 
been on the premises on 15 March 2020. This was 10 days prior to her email, and without 
further details of when she developed symptoms, it isnt clear whether, at a time when she 
was on the premises, that she had sustained any disease she was potentially later 
experiencing symptoms of. It is likely that symptoms of COVID-19 would have developed in 
a shorter period of time than 10 days. 
Mr F has also provided an email from one of the schools where the swimming pools are 
located. This says that on 20 March 2020, 15 members of the schools staff were 
self-isolating. The email doesnt give a reason for their self-isolation though and, even if it 
can safely be assumed that this was connected to COVID-19, it isnt clear how many of 
these individuals had actually sustained the disease  as opposed to being within a 
household where someone else had. Similarly, the email does not confirm the dates any of 
them developed symptoms, what these were, or when they were last at the school. 
Significantly, this email also doesnt confirm whether any of these individuals had been at the 
swimming pool at a time when it was most likely they had sustained COVID-19. Whilst the 
pool is on the premises of this school, it is housed within a separate building and it does not 
appear all faculty members would have regularly visited the pool.Mr F has also referred to the number of cases of COVID-19 that were confirmed within the 
local area. But this does not show that any of those individuals were at the premises at a 
time when they had sustained the disease. He has also referred to some correspondence 
regarding certain children who were displaying symptoms of illness. But the illness is 
described as a cold, so it isnt clear this was most likely COVID-19. And the messages are 
that the children are not attending the classes due to this illness, which does not support 
them having been on the premises with that illness. 
I do appreciate the difficulties with providing evidence of an occurrence of COVID-19 at any 
particular premises. I also appreciate this is made more difficult where those attending the 
premises have limited connection with the claimant and/or are minors. However, it is for Mr F 
in this case to demonstrate that it is more likely than not that there was an occurrence of 
COVID-19 at the swimming pools and that this led to their closure. Based on the evidence 
provided, I do not consider Mr F has done this. It follows that I do not consider RSA acted 
inappropriately by declining Mr Fs claim. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means RSA should have met Mr Fs claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for him, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman