DRN-2004377
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) carried out a hard credit record search when 
he opened a new account with them. 
What happened
Mr D switched his bank account to Lloyds in October 2019. He says hed read some terms 
and conditions before applying and these led him to think a hard credit record search 
wouldnt be done. He completed the application process online. 
As part of their approval checks, Lloyds carried out a search of Mr Ds credit record. The 
search was recorded on Mr Ds record, which he says has caused his credit score to drop by 
64 points. 
Mr D complained to Lloyds, but says he was initially told a hard credit record search hadnt 
been done. In their final response to the complaint though Lloyds said that sort of search had 
been done. Lloyds felt their terms and conditions made it clear this would be done, so they 
didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Lloyds offered Mr D £48 of compensation though, because they felt theyd caused him to 
need to make more than one phone call to raise and pursue his complaint. Ill come back to 
this later in my findings. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so he brought the matter to us. Our investigator 
looked at the information Mr D would have seen when completing the online application 
process and felt this made it suitably clear that a credit check could be completed. 
Mr D wasnt happy with this view, so the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate Mr D feels otherwise, my view is Lloyds dont need to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
 
My first question is whether its okay for Lloyds to do a hard credit record search when 
setting up a new product with a new customer. The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
website  specifically this page  suggests its to be expected. The FCA say that a bank 
should give the customer information about what theyre going to check, but its then for the 
customer to raise any questions or concerns about this with the bank. 
Ive taken this as a guide for what is a reasonable level of service  as long as Lloyds told Mr 
D they could do a such a search, and as long as he didnt raise any specific issues with that, 
there was nothing to stop them doing it. 
Ive seen the same screenshots of the online application process that our investigator saw. 
On the page titled Lets get started, there was clearly a section headed How we use credit 
reference and fraud prevention agencies. Within that section it said:
In order to process your application we may supply your personal information to 
credit reference agencies (CRAs) including how you use our products and services 
and they will give us information about you, such as about your financial history. We 
do this to assess creditworthiness and product suitability, check your identity, 
manage your account, trace and recover debts and prevent criminal activity.
I satisfied this did enough to say Lloyds would be contacting and exchanging information 
with credit reference agencies before they did it. It didnt explicitly say a hard credit record 
search would be done, but I think thats reasonable, as there may have been specific cases 
where Lloyds decided not to do one. This general warning was enough in my view to let 
anyone with a specific concern about checks on their credit record know they might want to 
contact Lloyds for more details before continuing. 
Mr Ds commented that he doesnt remember seeing the details quoted above. But Ive seen 
nothing to show that Lloyds could have known if he hadnt. And Ive not seen anything to say 
there was a technical issue at the time preventing this information from appearing during the 
online application. Ive also not seen that Mr D raised any questions or concerns with Lloyds 
about a credit record search being done. So I find it was reasonable for Lloyds to proceed as 
if their standard procedure to search his credit record was accepted. 
I appreciate some of Mr Ds comments make the point that information about credit record 
searches isnt specifically in the terms and conditions for the product he applied for. But I 
think its enough for it to be included in Lloyds general privacy policy, which applies across 
their products, and to have it available as part of the online application process. 
Mr Ds also said that he was initially told a hard credit record search hadnt been done, and 
this was only corrected after he pursued the matter further. Ive not seen specific evidence to 
show that  everything Ive seen shows Lloyds were consistent in saying a search had been 
done. But I note that Lloyds response to his complaint did include compensation for the 
complaint process taking longer than it should have. That compensation deals with the 
impact of any initial misinformation in my view, so Im not going to direct any further action 
on that point.  
My final decision
I decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc. That means they dont need 
to do anything else to resolve the matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman