DRN-1641769
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold 
them a fee-paying Advantage Gold account, which was sold to them in May 2011.
They say they were forced to upgrade their account so that they could obtain future lending. 
They also say that NatWest increased their overdraft without their consent. And that they 
tried downgrading the account a number of times but were refused.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Is account history is as follows:
Opened a fee-free current account  1986
Upgraded to a fee-paying Advantage Gold account  August 2001
Downgraded to a fee-free Current Plus account  September 2008
Upgraded back to an Advantage Gold account  May 2011
Changed (due to the withdrawal of the Advantage Gold account) to a Select Platinum 
account  July 2015
Downgraded to a fee-free Select account - March 2019
In its response to the complaint, NatWest upheld Mr and Mrs Is complaint about the sale of 
the first Advantage Gold account and so refunded all of the account fees they paid for it, plus 
8% simple interest (less tax) because they had not had the benefit of the money that was 
being refunded. However, NatWest didnt think that the second Advantage Gold account had 
been mis-sold. 
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and she concluded that the Advantage 
Gold account sold in 2011 had not been mis-sold. As the account was changed to a Select 
Platinum account due to the withdrawal of the Advantage Gold package, the adjudicator did 
not treat this as a separate sale but instead as a continuation of the previous packaged 
account. The adjudicator also didn't find that Mr and Mrs I had downgrade requests unfairly 
denied by NatWest.
Mr and Mrs Is representative disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website and Ive used that to help me 
deicide this case.
I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, 
as is the case here, I have to decide this case on a balance of probabilities. In other words, I 
have to base my decision on what I think was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available. Therefore, I cant just accept Mr and Mrs Is (or their 
representatives) testimony without also considering the wider evidence and circumstances.
In the complaint form, Mr and Mrs Is representative says that if they had not been sold the 
Advantage Gold account in 2001 (Which NatWest has admitted was mis-sold), then it 
wouldve remained a free account when it was migrated to a fee-paying Select Platinum 
account in 2015. However, I disagree with this logic as Mr and Mrs Is account was 
downgraded to a fee-free account in 2008 and remained as such for some time, until it was 
upgraded back to the Advantage Gold account in 2011. 
Therefore, I dont think the fact that the first packaged account was mis-sold means that their 
account would never have been migrated to a Select Platinum account  or for that matter, 
necessarily means that it was mis-sold for a second time. After all, their circumstances 
couldve changed between 2001 and 2011 and I'm mindful that how the account was sold in 
2011 may well have been very different to how it was sold in 2001.  
I understand that Mr and Mrs I feel that their Advantage Gold account was mis-sold in 2011 
as they were forced into taking it to obtain future lending. However, according to what 
NatWest has been able to provide, Mr and Mrs Is overdraft limit was increased to £500 in 
August 2001 and then to £1,800 in February 2002 i.e. many years before the second 
Advantage Gold account was sold to them. And as far as I can see, the overdraft limit 
remained the same on the account, both when it was a fee-free account, and after they 
upgraded. 
Mr and Mrs Is representative says that the overdraft was added to their account without 
consent. Whereas NatWest says that it was not their policy to offer an overdraft increase if 
no agreed limit was in place, so it believes that the first increase was a customer application. 
But it does concede that the second increase mayve been offered to the consumers, 
although it also says that because of the amount it increased by on the second occasion, it 
thinks its unlikely that NatWest wouldve offered this to Mr and Mrs I. 
I think its possible that, as were talking about events that happened over 18 years ago, Mr 
and Mrs I mayve agreed to the overdraft increases but just cant remember doing so. But 
even if they didn't, I've not seen anything to suggest that offering these overdrafts to Mr and 
Mrs I was unreasonable. And if they didn't need the overdrafts, then I can't see that they've 
lost out as a result of them being on their account. On the contrary, by having the agreed 
limits in place meant that they would've avoided paying unarranged overdraft charges if and 
when their account went overdrawn. 
But whether Mr and Mrs I requested their overdraft to be increased or NatWest offered to 
increase it, the fact they had a sizable agreed limit on their fee-free account before the 
upgrade in 2011, makes me think that Mr and Mrs I were aware that they could have an 
overdraft facility, without needing to have a packaged account.
Mr and Mrs Is representative says that the account was not being used by Mr and Mrs I and 
so they had no need for the overdraft facility. If that was the case, then I find it unlikely that 
they wouldve agreed to pay a monthly fee for an Advantage Gold account because it would 
help them obtain future borrowing. I say this particularly because Ive also seen no evidence 
that Mr and Mrs I applied for any borrowing after the account had been sold to them.
At the time the account was sold to Mr and Mrs I, the Advantage Gold benefits included 
preferential rates on mortgages, overdrafts and loans. Therefore, even if Mr and Mrs I did 
agree to the account because they might need to borrow from NatWest in the near future, 
then I think its just as likely that they did so for the potential savings they could receive on 
such borrowing.So, when weighing up what I think was most likely to have happened, I think its more likely 
Mr and Mrs I agreed to the Advantage Gold account because they were, at least initially, 
attracted to something it provided, rather than because they thought they had to have it, if 
they wanted to borrow from NatWest again.
NatWest says that the account was sold online  which, it says, explains why Mr and Mrs I 
didnt sign anything - and so says the account was sold on a non-advised basis. But Mr and 
Mrs Is representative disputes that it was sold online because Mr and Mrs I have never used 
online banking. 
The limited evidence provided by NatWest would suggest that it was sold online. And I 
understand its possible that Mr and Mrs I couldve applied for the upgrade on NatWests 
website, without them needing to use online banking. But, however it was sold, neither Mr 
and Mrs I, nor NatWest, have provided anything that leads me to think that the account was 
sold on an advised basis. I say this as there doesnt appear to have been a review of Mr and 
Mrs Is demands and needs, or a personalised recommendation based on their 
circumstances at the time.
This means that NatWest didnt have to check if the account was right for them, but it did 
have to give them important information about the account.
I cant be sure what information NatWest gave to Mr and Mrs I. But I think its likely that 
NatWest, in trying to make the account seem attractive to them, would likely have given Mr 
and Mrs I some information about the account and the associated benefits. It appears that 
Mr and Mrs I were aware of the monthly fee and, given that theyd removed the Advantage 
Gold package from their account in 2008, I think its likely they wouldve had an appreciation 
for what type of benefits theyd get with it, when it was added back onto their account in 
2011.
I accept that Mr and Mrs I may not have been given all of the information about the account. 
But Ive seen nothing about their circumstances at the time that makes me think they 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had NatWest given them even more information 
about the package.
I appreciate that based on what they mayve read recently, and perhaps with the benefit of 
hindsight, they (or their representative) may now think that the account has been poor value 
for money. But that in itself doesnt mean that it was mis-sold or that NatWest was wrong to 
have sold it to them at the time.
Therefore, having carefully considered everything provided by all sides, I dont think that the 
Advantage Gold account sold in 2011, was mis-sold. As such, I think it would be 
inappropriate to require NatWest to refund the account fees theyve paid since then.
Mr and Mrs Is representative has said that they stopped using the account and therefore the 
only reason the account was left overdrawn and eventually was passed to NatWests 
collections team was because of the account fees. 
NatWest has provided an extract of the transactions on the account. I can see throughout 
2014, 2015, and 2016 the account was consistently in credit. And although there were not 
many transactions on the account, I can see that Mr and Mrs I paid the occasional cheque 
out of the account. So they were clearly aware they still had the account. However, it 
appears that Mr and Mrs I paid a £500 cheque out of the account on 10 May 2016  which 
meant the account went overdrawn. And I cant see that they put any money into the account 
since then.Therefore, Im satisfied that the reason the account went overdrawn was because they 
issued a cheque on the account, but then didnt pay any further money into the account to 
bring it back to a credit balance. I appreciate that the account fees mayve added to their 
indebtedness on the account. But as I think they were aware they had the account; were 
aware it had a monthly fee; and I think the account fees were being correctly applied (as I 
dont think it had been mis-sold),  I dont think NatWest is required to refund those fees. And 
I can see that the redress from the first sale was used to reduce this overdrawn balance  
which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
Finally, Mr and Mrs Is representative says that they tried to downgrade the account a 
number of times but were refused. NatWest says that it has looked through its records but 
cannot find any evidence of this. In response, the representative says that he used to work 
for NatWest and says that it was common practice for staff members to write down requests 
and action them later and says this is why there may not be an official record of the 
downgrade request.
Ive considered what both parties have said. And I do think its possible that not every request 
may necessarily be formally noted on the system by staff members. But Ive not seen 
enough here to say that Mr and Mrs I made a request to downgrade and NatWest either 
refused to action it or said it would, but then didnt. 
I therefore don't think that this complaint should be upheld. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs I 
(and their representative) will be disappointed by my decision. And I can see their strength of 
feeling on this matter. But I hope I have been able to explain my reasons for my decision.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Thomas White
Ombudsman