DRN-2653283
The complaint
Miss B complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited refused to let her terminate a 
finance agreement which had been mis-sold.
What happened
 In March 2019 Ms B acquired a car costing £18,080 funded by a deposit of £500 and the 
balance with a hire purchase agreement. It was some three years old and had covered 
7,992 miles. The car was to be used in her business and the agreement did not allow for 
business use. 
In November 2019 Miss B complained to Clydesdale. It said that she hadnt told the dealer 
she had her own business or that she was planning to use the car for business purposes. It 
said the terms and conditions of the agreement which she had seen stated that the car must 
not be used for business purposes and it rejected her complaint.
Miss B brought the matter to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. Initially he recommended it be rejected, but after further information was 
supplied, he changed his opinion.
Miss B explained that her first visit to the dealer was to get a quote. She said she had told 
the salesman about her business and the type of car she needed. She had been 
recommended to take out a PCP agreement and had paid a deposit of £500. The car was at 
another showroom. She was uncertain about the car when she saw it and whether it was 
suitable, but the dealer put her under some pressure to complete the sale. He said that if she 
had to make a claim, she could lie about using it for business. Miss B says she declined to 
proceed.
A few days later she was told the agreement was being emailed to her, but she didnt 
receive it. She went back to the dealer to ask for a refund of her deposit and she spoke with 
the manager. He reassured her the agreement was suitable and it was sent to her by email 
and she looked at it in the dealers office. She signed the agreement having been reassured 
she could use the car for business.
Our investigator spoke with the dealer. The salesman no longer worked there and it had 
limited information, but our investigator was satisfied that Miss Bs testimony was credible. It 
also tied in with some of the information held by the dealer. He concluded the complaint 
should be upheld. He recommended Clydesdale to:
Unwind the agreement so no more payments are due
Refund the deposit paid
Refund 15% of repayments made since November 2019  these representing the 
time she was made aware she could not use the vehicle for more than personal use 
which impaired her use
Apply 8% simple interest from the date of payment until the date of settlement for any 
refunds stated above
Collect the vehicle at no further cost to Miss B
Miss B agreed, but Clydesdale made a counter offer. It said Miss B had not made any 
payments since September 2019. It would have repossessed the car but had been told she 
had a medical condition which stopped it from taking such action. It suggested that it unwind 
the agreement with nothing more to pay and retain the deposit. It didnt think it should pay 
interest. It said Miss B would have to make the car available with all the keys and 
documentation. It added that due to the outstanding balance there would be an impact on 
Miss Bs credit file, but it would remove any adverse entries it had made.
Miss B rejected this offer and said she had stopped making payments since she was unable 
to use the car for her business. She had sold her family car in April 2019 as she had 
acquired a new one which she could use for business and family needs. She said it was 
unfair to expect her to pay for a car Clydesdale had instructed her to stop using. She had 
invested a lot into the car, beyond the deposit. This included a licence, maintenance, tax, 
etc. She felt she should receive back all the payments she had made.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I believed Clydesdale had accepted that the agreement has been mis-sold by dint of its 
counter offer. Having reviewed all the evidence I was satisfied that Miss B was mis-sold the 
agreement and that the dealer had been made aware of the purpose to which the car was to 
be put. Given this issue was not disputed I trusted both parties accept it was unnecessary for 
me to set out my reasoning in any more detail.
This left the matter of redress. I was satisfied that Miss B made use of the car for business 
purposes up to around or about October 2019. She said that after that she stopped using it 
for business. I looked at the MOT details for the car and the mileage records. These state:
3 April 2019 8,321 miles
3 October 2019: 17,287 miles
14 October 2020 23,808 miles.
I noted that these showed Miss B has continued to make use of the car long after she 
ceased making payments. She did some 9,000 miles in the first six months of ownership 
which fits with her using it for business. However, she still managed some 6,500 miles in the 
following year. So, while she may not have been able to use it for business purposes she still 
was able to use it.
I was aware that the current pandemic may well have had an impact on the miles she was 
able to cover, but I was willing to accept that she stopped using the car for business from 
around November 2019.
Her monthly payments are £327.95 and I thought it would be reasonable for her to pay for 
the period she used the car for business.  Although she continued to drive the car, I was 
aware that she was deprived of making additional income. I noted Miss B was employed 
elsewhere and her self-employment was to provide additional income for her and her family. 
That opportunity to earn additional income had not been available to her since November 
2019. That meant that on one hand she had been deprived of earning additional income and on 
the other she has had the personal use of a car without paying for it for over a year. I thought 
those balanced each other out and I believed the offer put forward by Clydesdale was fair. 
Miss B didnt agree with my provisional decision. She said that she had given up her 
employment soon after she took up her self-employed work. She said that she had invested 
a lot in the car and in her business including maintenance and licences. She said that she 
had told Clydesdale in a phone conversation at the beginning of December 2019 that she 
was happy to return the car. Mrs B said she had been left with a car against her will which 
she had to tax and insure.
She hadnt been able to work and earn money due to the agreement being unsuitable.
I issued a second provisional decision as follows:
I said I had reviewed the evidence again and I saw that Miss B was recorded as being an 
employee when she acquired the car and I also noted that in May 2020 in a call to this 
service she said she that she was both an employee and self-employed. It was on this 
evidence that I referred to her having two sources of income. 
I also reviewed Clydesdales records and I saw that Miss B called the bank on 10 December 
2019 and asked to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement. In January 2020 the notes 
record she was a vulnerable customer and an update on her health was needed before 
acting to repossess the car. It also notes that no written request had been made to VT the 
agreement. 
I said Miss B called again on 7 February asking when the car would be collected. The 
records show that she was on reduced hours and her condition was improving. A decision 
wasnt made by Miss B about returning the car. As Miss B has explained she stopped using 
the car for her self-employment I could only assume the reference to her working in the 
banks records relate to her employment. I understood the bank took the view that due to her 
health she remained a vulnerable customer and so it didnt proceed with repossession. 
She stopped making payments in September 2019, but I gathered she carried on using the 
car for business until November when she was told that the agreement didnt allow for 
business use. That meant she did make use of it for business for a period after stopping her 
payments. 
However, I concluded that the cause of Miss Bs current situation was due, primarily to being 
mis-sold the agreement. I thought her situation had been exacerbated by her health issue 
and subsequently by the pandemic, but the core problem was the mis-sold agreement. She 
did try and return the car in late 2019 and in early 2020 and although she has made some 
use of it, I thought she had been financially disadvantaged by it not being collected. I 
accepted the bank took the action it did with the best of intentions. However, on balance, I 
thought that the bank should return Miss Bs deposit, but without any interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The bank agreed and Miss B said she reluctantly agreed. She explained that she believed 
she was owed more and she asked that the £500 be deposited in her account and she 
receive a letter confirming her credit score had been cleared before the car was collected. 
She also said that she never received a copy of the sales agreement so she couldnt be held responsible for any damage albeit she said the car hadnt been damaged and all items were 
present.
Given the responses of both parties I believe my second provisional decision should stand. I 
dont consider it necessary to require Clydesdale to follow the process suggested by Miss B. 
However, I would expect it to deal with the matter without further delay. If there are any 
charges for damages which Miss B disputes it is open to her to bring a second complaint.
Putting things right
The bank should allow Miss B to return the car. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and I direct Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to end the agreement with nothing further to pay and it should return the deposit of 
£500. The car should be returned without delay and if appropriate would be subject to any 
charges for damage or for missing items as set out in the agreement. The bank should also 
remove any adverse entries it has made regarding this account on Miss Bs credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman