DRN-3727716
The complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct bank) acted unfairly when 
restricting access to the accounts she held with it.
What happened
Miss M held a personal current account and two savings accounts with first direct, a division 
of HSBC. Miss M also held a business account and £10,000 Bounce Back Loan with HSBC, 
which are the subject of a separate complaint.
In July 2021, first direct restricted Miss Ms usage of the accounts and the funds held therein. 
The restriction was applied while HSBC conducted a review of Miss Ms accounts and, in 
particular, her Bounce Back Loan application  as the bank didnt think shed been eligible 
for the loan shed obtained.
In May 2022, first direct wrote to Miss M to advise that it had decided to withdraw its banking 
facilities. There was a credit balance of £5.68 payable to Miss M.
In response to Miss Ms complaints about the restriction of her accounts, first direct accepted 
that it couldve handled matters more efficiently and promptly between the initial restriction 
and its final decision. So it apologised for any inconvenience and frustration this may have 
caused, and offered Miss M £200 by way of compensation.
As Miss M remained unhappy, she asked us to look into things and the matter was reviewed 
by one of our investigators. She didnt think first direct had done anything wrong in the 
actions taken in light of HSBCs broader review, other than the undisputed error in failing to 
release the account balance in a timely manner. For the impact of this, she thought £200 
was fair compensation and so didnt recommend that the bank take any further action.
Miss M didnt accept our investigators view. She didnt accept that HSBCs decision 
regarding her Bounce Back Loan was reasonable, which had then impacted her personal 
accounts with first direct unfairly. She said shed been left without access to money for 
essential expenses for nine months, and had defaulted on her mortgage  which she didnt 
think had been taken into account. And so with no resolution, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Miss Ms accounts with first direct allowed the bank to restrict 
her access in certain circumstances. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the bank to do 
so in light of the review being carried out by HSBC. That review is the subject of a separate 
complaint, in which Ive found that HSBC had legitimate concerns as to Miss Ms entitlement 
to the Bounce Back Loan shed obtained.
The terms and conditions also allowed first direct to end its relationship with Miss M and to 
close her accounts immediately. Again Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the bank to 
exercise that power in the circumstances here.
As first direct has accepted, there was a delay in taking the decision to close Miss Ms 
accounts and arranging the release of the closing balance. But I can see that first direct 
confirmed to Miss M shortly after the restriction was applied that it could arrange for the 
withdrawal of funds if she needed them  which largely mitigated the impact of this delay.
In October 2021, after Miss M had set up a new account elsewhere, a withdrawal of £1,300 
was arranged leaving a remaining balance of around £45. There was always going to be 
some delay in Miss M regaining access to her funds while the bank completed its review. 
And I dont think first direct ought necessarily to have closed the accounts any earlier than 
October  so I dont think Miss M was deprived of access to these funds for longer than she 
wouldve been, even if things had gone as they shouldve done. 
A further £40 was withdrawn in January 2022, leaving a balance of around £5. So it was a 
relatively small sum that Miss M was waiting on for any real length of time. 
With all that in mind, I dont think there is any basis on which I could fairly require first direct 
to increase its offer of compensation. The £200 it has already offered represents fair 
compensation for any inconvenience or frustration caused to Miss M by the delay in closing 
her accounts.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct bank) has already made an offer to pay £200 to 
Miss M to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct bank) must pay Miss M 
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman