DRN-4164654
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) provided him with 
a final closing statement for his account which contained an error in it. 
Background
When Virgin Money investigated Mr S complaint it accepted that Mr S closing statement did 
contain an error. And it paid him £25 in compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
this may have caused. Mr S remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service.
Mr S complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She thought what Virgin Money 
had already paid Mr S was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. So she 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Given Mr S submissions, I do think it would be useful for me to reiterate that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service isnt the regulator of the financial services industry. So I while Ive seen 
Mr S has referred to a number rule breaches he thinks have taken place in the course of 
Virgin Moneys actions, I want to be clear in stating that it isnt for me to enforce these rules.
All Im able to do is look at whether what Virgin Money has already done to put things right, 
for what it has already accepted went wrong, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of         
Mr S complaint. And thats what Ive done here. 
It isnt in dispute that Virgin Money sent Mr S a final closing statement for his account which 
contained an error on this. But Virgin Money has not only accepted that this is the case, it 
has also already sent Mr S a correct closing statement and paid him £25 in compensation  
for this. 
Mr S says that the amount paid doesnt reflect the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. Hes said that his new bank placed a block on his account because of the error 
on his closing statement. However, despite being given the opportunity to do so, Mr S hasnt 
provided us with evidence to show that his new account was blocked at all, let alone that it 
was blocked because of the information contained on his incorrect closing statement. 
I do accept that Mr S did experience an amount of frustration and annoyance as a result of 
Virgin Moneys actions. I also understand why this might have been upsetting and that the 
impact on Mr S might have been more than just minimal. However, I do think that matters 
were put right relatively quickly. And as Ive already explained, Ive not been provided with 
anything which clearly demonstrates that Mr S new account was ever blocked because of 
Virgin Moneys error either. 
I do appreciate Mr S that Mr S believes £200 would be a more appropriate amount of 
compensation here. But overall Ive not been persuaded that the level of distress and 
inconvenience Mr S experienced warrants an award of this amount. Instead having 
considered everything, Im satisfied that £25 is adequate amount of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr S experienced here. So having considered everything, Im 
satisfied that what Virgin Money has already done to put things right for Mr S is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman