DRN-3477672
The complaint
Mr M has complained that, when his occupational pension scheme (OPS) bought an 
insurance contract with Rothesay Life Plc for it to pay for a portion of the OPSs pension 
liabilities, Rothesay no longer provided increases in his annual pension income. Mr M has 
said that he used to receive cost of living reviews, but that Rothesay hasnt done so.
What happened
Mr M was a member of his OPS, which arranged a buy in with Rothesay in 2014, whereby 
the trustees established the insurance contract and it would receive payments in respect of 
certain pension liabilities. 
In a letter dated January 2013, the OPS administrator said that the policy established with 
Rothesay matched a portion of the schemes pensioner liabilities on a like for like basis. Mr 
M was told that he didnt need to take any action and that Mr M wasnt a Rothesay customer. 
He remained a pensioner of the scheme, and this was unaffected by the transaction. Rather, 
Rothesay would make regular payments to the scheme which would replicate some of the 
monthly pension which the scheme then paid out.
As such, the trustees retained responsibility for paying Mr Ms benefits and his pension 
would continue to be paid in the same way as it had been.
In the accompanying question and answer section, it was explained that the trustees now 
owned an investment  the insurance contract  which would provide a better match for the 
pensions they needed to pay. The insurance policy was designed to protect the scheme 
from future changes in life expectancy and changes in financial conditions such as long term 
interest rates and inflation.
The scheme administrator further confirmed that Mr Ms pension benefits wouldnt be 
changing.
The terms of the policy set out that Rothesay wouldnt assume a number of liabilities, 
including the following:
(f) any liability of the Trustee which arises as a result of the Schemes:
(i) principal employer using its power to augment benefits on or after the 
Inception Date; or
(ii) principal employer exercising its discretion under Rule 12.3 of the Deed and 
rules dated 18 February 1992 on or after the Inception Date to direct the 
Trustee to increase pensions in payment,
Unless the Trustee elects under clause 11 (increase of Policy Benefits) to increase 
Policy Benefits so as to include such a liability
Clause 11 essentially set out that the Trustees could secure additional benefits by payment 
of a further premium. 
Mr M wrote to his scheme administrator in April 2014 enquiring as to whether the cost of 
living increases would continue, or whether the pension would be frozen.
In response, the administrator confirmed that the transaction didnt in any way affect its 
ability to pay discretionary increases. It said that it was still invested in assets which aimed to 
grow the pension fund, but that, due to the companys financial strength having decreased, it 
couldnt take risks with the investment strategy. It said that it couldnt provide discretionary 
increases until the scheme could fully secure the contractual benefits of all members. But it 
confirmed that it would continue to review the position every year.
In 2016, the legal responsibility for providing the scheme benefits transferred to Rothesay, 
as indicated by its letter of July 2016. This was followed by individual policy documents 
being sent to Mr M in February 2017.
Mr M contacted Rothesay in January 2021 saying that he hadnt received any notification 
that pension increases wouldnt increase as they once had, and enquired as to when the 
cost of living review would occur. Rothesay provided the policy documents to Mr M, but he 
responded to say that he couldnt see any reference to the cost of living review.
Rothesay confirmed that Mr Ms pension didnt increase in payment and there was no 
allowance for an increased cost of living. This, it said, had been allowed for within the old 
scheme rules, and whilst Mr Ms benefits did increase between the date he left employment 
and the date he retired, the scheme rules said that those increases would stop once the 
benefits began to be paid.
Mr M complained in February 2021, providing several documents which he said 
demonstrated that the transfer to Rothesay wouldnt affect his benefits. 
Rothesay issued its final response letter in April 2021, in which it said that, when the OPS 
benefits were bought out by Rothesay, its obligation was to provide former scheme members 
with the benefits which were guaranteed by the scheme rules  and any discretionary 
increases didnt form part of that contract. Increases after retirement werent guaranteed by 
the scheme rules and so Mr Ms retirement benefits wouldnt increase in payment.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr M referred his complaint to this service, reiterating that, 
although Rothsay had confirmed that his pension had increased in deferment, it hadnt 
increased since the benefits had begun to be paid.
Rothesay, for its part, said that it had only been asked to insure the guaranteed benefits of 
the scheme and that any annual cost of living increases had been discretionary. Therefore, 
although there may have been the potential for discretionary increases to be paid when Mr 
M was receiving benefits directly from the scheme, these could never be paid under the 
insurance policy provided by Rothesay.
It further said that it didnt really consider this to be a matter for it to answer, as it was the 
scheme trustees decision as to what they paid for when insuring the members benefits  it 
simply acted on their instructions, it added.
One of our investigators considered the matter, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said the following in summary:
The agreement in place when Rothesay took over the pension payments said that it 
wouldnt assume liability for any increases in Mr Ms pension payments - which would 
have been at the schemes discretion.It only took on the liability for paying the guaranteed benefits and wasnt contractually 
obliged to pay anything else. And so it wouldnt need to undertake cost of living 
reviews.
Hed considered the documents which Mr M had submitted, but these confirmed that 
any increases in the pension were at the discretion of the scheme.
He also noted that Mr M had provided a letter from the scheme in July 2016 which 
said that the transfer to Rothesay wouldnt affect benefits payable from two specific 
pension schemes, but they were overseas schemes of which Mr M hadnt been a 
member.
A further letter from Rothesay in February 2019, which said that there would be no 
change in Mr Ms benefits levels as result of Prudential transferring some annuities to 
it also didnt mean that there was a need for Rothesay to provide cost of living 
reviews. Mr M had never had cost of living reviews with Rothesay as it hadnt bought 
this responsibility from the OPS.
By transferring the responsibility to Rothesay, Mr Ms OPS had effectively made the 
decision to end the possibility of discretionary increases.
He noted that Mr M had submitted correspondence between him and the scheme 
which said that the transaction didnt affect its ability to apply discretionary increases, 
and that it would continue to review its position every year. But it had sold Mr Ms 
pension to Rothesay and there was no provision within that to apply discretionary 
increases.
When the benefits were being paid by the scheme, there was the possibility of 
discretionary increases, but this ended when the pension was transferred to 
Rothesay.
Mr M disagreed, however, saying that Rothesay had bought his pension, including the 
benefits with it. Both the scheme and Rothesay assured him that nothing would change with 
regard to his pension, which he said hed demonstrated in the various letters hed submitted.
He said that the facility to provide discretionary increases had been dropped by Rothesay, 
but this hadnt been mentioned before or after the purchase of his pension, which he found 
unacceptable.
As agreement wasnt reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I accept that this will disappoint Mr M, Ive reached broadly the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for similar reasons.
I dont think Mr M is claiming that he has a right to increases on his pension. I think he 
understands that such increases were always discretionary and, as demonstrated by 
correspondence from the scheme, they would be largely dependent upon the schemes 
financial strength.I think what concerns Mr M is that even the option to apply discretionary increases has 
effectively been removed. Rothesay has ruled these out. But I dont think that I could fairly or 
reasonably find Rothesay to be at fault here. As it said to the investigator, when it bought the 
liabilities by way of the insurance contract, it was simply responding to the instructions of the 
scheme, which, according to the policy terms, excluded increases to pensions in payment.
Mr M has said that he wasnt informed by either his scheme or Rothesay that the facility for 
providing discretionary increases would be removed after the transfer. But I dont think it 
would be fair to hold Rothesay responsible for the manner in which any changes to his 
scheme benefits might have been communicated. Again, as far as it was concerned, it was 
receiving instructions on what benefits it would be buying, and then issued policy documents 
to Mr M  and as the terms set out, it had bought the guaranteed benefits under the scheme, 
without mandatory or discretionary increases. 
And whilst its fair to say that the scheme did originally say that it retained the responsibility 
to pay Mr Ms pension, and that it could still pay discretionary increases, this changed in 
2016 when it discharged its liability to pay the pension and Rothesay created an individual 
policy with Mr M. From that point on, the insurance contract only required Rothesay to pay 
the guaranteed benefits as no provision had been put in place for increases.
Mr M has mentioned the increases which occurred in deferment  up to his retirement  then 
ceased when Mr M started receiving the pension benefits, but this is quite a normal feature 
of OPS pensions. They have an obligation to revalue deferred pensions in line with 
increases in inflation, usually up to certain limits, but this revaluation then ceases once 
benefits have started to be paid. Thereafter, pensions are payable in line with the scheme 
rules relating to pensions in payment, rather than in deferment.
Overall, I think that Mr Ms concerns relating to the terms of the insurance policy, and 
specifically what changed when the legal responsibility for providing the pension transferred 
to Rothesay in 2016, might better be directed at the scheme administrators/trustees of his 
OPS. For example, they might be better able to point to any communications relating to the 
removal of the facility to apply discretionary increases. And if Mr M remained dissatisfied 
with whatever response they provided, he could then refer this to the Pensions Ombudsman, 
which deals with complaints relating to such schemes.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman