DRN-3805057
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the refusal of a claim for a Guarantee Protection Insurance policy 
with Safe World Insurance Group (UK) Ltd. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
In December 2019, Mr R signed up with Contractor A to have a battery storage system 
installed, and this took place in February 2020. Contractor A registered the installation with 
the Home Insulation and Energy Systems Contractors Scheme (HIES) and arranged the 
insurance policy with Safe World from HIES. The policy provides an insurance backed 
guarantee for domestic installations to ensure that the installers written guarantee is 
honoured if it ceases to trade and is unable to fulfil its warranty terms.
Mr R says the installation was unsafe and has had the batteries removed however 
Contractor A has ceased trading, so Mr R made a claim under the policy.
Safe World have rejected the claim for several reasons. Firstly, the policy only covers for 
installations carried out at a domestic property. It says that Mr Rs property is not a domestic 
property and that it is used for commercial purposes. It therefore cancelled the policy with 
immediate effect and rejected the claim. Other reasons given were due to exclusions listed 
in the policy. In summary it said it wouldnt cover; any work carried out by anyone other than 
the supplier, or in the event of a claim without its authorisation; any loss which is recoverable 
under any other insurance or any other source whatsoever; any fault, failure, loss or damage 
resulting from the design of an installation. All of which it said applied here.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying Safe World had fairly applied its 
exclusions, in particular any fault resulting from the design of an installation He said Mr 
Rs claim is the result of the location of the installation, which is part of the design, so he felt 
the claim was fairly declined.
Mr R disagrees he argues that separation of design and installation can only occur if the 
design was carried out before the installation and approved by the client. Mr R says this 
didnt happen. The installers turned up with no design they were jobbing electricians with no 
surveying qualification, therefore were not capable or competent to carry out design work. 
He says he didnt ask for the batteries to be installed in the roof. Mr R also refers to his 
expert report that identifies multiple installation failures in addition to location. So, he has 
asked for his complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of the policy. The policy is clearly named a 
Domestic property deposit protection and insurance backed guarantee and is therefore 
aimed at domestic customers. The policy specifies a domestic property as; A dwelling, such 
as a house or a flat used for domestic purposes only. A dwelling will still be deemed as
used for domestic purposes only when used for a commercial purpose (such as a home 
office) provided:
(a) it is confined to one room within the boundary of the property;
(b) the public do not have access to it;
(c) a planning consent has not been necessary to allow a commercial activity to take place at 
the property. 
It is clear from what Ive seen that this property now has some commercial use. At the time 
of installation of the batteries in February 2020 Mr R argues the property wasnt being used 
for a commercial business. From what Ive seen the business that does run from the 
property was registered on 10 October 2021 which is prior to Mr R first making contact to 
make a claim on the policy on the 25 October 2021 and actually completing the claim form 
on 6 December 2021.
I can understand Safe Worlds concerns about the set-up of the energy system in that Mr Rs 
property benefits from a three phase system that are usually applicable to larger scale 
commercial premises as to a one phase system which is normal for a domestic property.
Mr Rs system has 22kWh solar installation and the battery system would be fed by that 
system. A typical domestic dwelling would have 4kW system generating 3,400kWh it would 
have 16 panels and need approximately 28sq of roof space. To generate 22kWh, a system 
of circa 100 panels would be needed. And from what Ive seen the solar panels are not on a 
dwelling such as a house or a flat they are on a barn albeit the batteries were installed in the 
attic of the home. So, it seems most likely to me Safe Worlds has fairly determined the 
property wasnt in domestic use at the time of installation as Mr R had said.
However, even if I were to accept that this was installed at the time on a domestic property 
as our investigator pointed out Safe World did rely on other exclusions in the policy and I am 
satisfied that it was fair to do this. 
There is a clear exclusion for Any work carried out by anyone other than the supplier, or in 
the event of a claim without our authorisation;. Mr R has said he had the batteries removed 
as he was concerned of the fire risk in June 2021. However, he didnt get the supplier to 
remove these and as far as I can see Contractor A didnt wind up until 8 October 2021 nor 
did he seek authorisation as per the policy requirements.
There is also a clear exclusion for Any fault, failure, loss or damage resulting from the 
design of an installation Mr Rs claim is a result of the location of the batteries Safe World 
would not cover the design elements of an installation, unless they relate to workmanship 
failures that would ordinarily be covered under an installers written guarantee. The 
movement of any element of the installation completed by Contractor A would therefore not 
be covered by the policy. I take on board Mr Rs point that he may not have had a choice in 
where the battery was installed, but the exclusion in question has no such specification or 
requirement for his input for it to take effect. So, this hasnt changed my mind.
Mr R also referred to his experts report and says it outlines multiple installation failures but it 
says it didnt meet fire safety regulations the other conclusions are about the performance of 
the system and how the transaction occurred, which are not covered under the policy. I am 
therefore satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Safe World to reject the claim and I wont be 
asking it to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman