DRN-2864689
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex), trading as Volvo Car Leasing, charged him 
an extra month rental when he terminated his finance agreement early.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The early termination quote Mr R received, dated 14 October 2020, explained that a sum of 
£1224.65 plus VAT was due to terminate his agreement early. An explanatory note said that 
the quotation assumed all invoiced rentals had been paid.
A monthly rental was due to be paid on 30 October 2020. That rental had been invoiced on 
1 October 2020 and covered the period from 20 October 2020 to 19 November 2020. 
As the early termination fees were received by Lex on 22 October this final rental was due, 
and I dont think Lex have done anything wrong when charging for it. 
Mr R says that as Lex couldnt collect the car when he asked them to he was in forced to pay 
an additional rental. I dont think that was the case as by the time Lex had received the early 
termination forms back on 22 October 2020 they were already into the new rental period that 
had started a couple of days earlier. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman