DRN-3455030
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank Plc wont make any form of refund for payments 
made on their debit card to rent a cottage for a group of people.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr H and Mrs H used their Lloyds debit card to pay a deposit for a stay at 
a cottage in July 2020 for a group of people. They paid £79 at that point. The booking 
confirmation stated that in the event of cancellation a further £949.90 would be payable. The 
total cost of the rental was over £3000.
On 20 May 2020 Mr H and Mrs H cancelled the booking due to concerns regarding the covid 
pandemic. On 21 May 2020 the £949.90 was debited by the cottage rental company. Mr H 
and Mrs H complained to it but didnt get any money back. They say they couldnt have 
attended the property due to the covid restrictions put in place by the government.
So Mr H and Mrs H complained to Lloyds who looked into the matter but concluded it didnt 
think it could help. This was because it didnt think it could pursue a chargeback further 
because it didnt have a reasonable prospect of success in its view. So it didnt think it could 
do any more for Mr H and Mrs H.
Mr H and Mrs H didnt think this was fair, so they brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly by 
declining Mr H and Mrs Hs request for a refund. Mr H and Mrs H didnt agree. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the cottage rental company, which 
isnt a financial services provider and so doesnt fall within my remit.  Whatever the issues 
there maybe with the rental and just because Mr H and Mrs H feel theyve lost out, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that Lloyds has treated Mr H and Mrs H unfairly. 
Lloydss role in the matter is to be considered only under the Chargeback rules in place as 
this transaction was on Mr H and Mrs Hs debit card. The Chargeback rules are a voluntary 
scheme and consumers do not have a right to a chargeback being raised. It is however the 
case though that this Service considers raising a chargeback to be good practice. Lloyds can 
only be held responsible if it has failed in some way. And the question of whether or not 
Lloyds has treated Mr H and Mrs H fairly is the only question I can decide upon in this 
decision. This is an important distinction which I hope Ive made sufficiently clear.
Mr H and Mrs H accept they made the transaction for the rental on that day in November 
2019 and that they did this transaction with the cottage rental company in question. Ive 
considered the transaction itself and having done so Im satisfied the transaction was 
properly authorised by Mr H and Mrs H and correctly applied to their debit card account with 
Lloyds. 
Mr H and Mrs H says they didnt authorise the transaction for £949.90 taken on the 21 May 
2020. However having looked at the terms and conditions agreed in November and the 
booking confirmation it makes clear that £949.90 would be debited in the event of 
cancellation. And this is what Mr H and Mrs H agreed to at the time. In essence they 
consented to making the payment made in May 2020 in November 2019 by agreeing the 
terms of the rental. It is unfortunate that at that time nobody could foresee how the pandemic 
would grow and change so many things in society. But Lloyds hasnt done anything wrong in 
allowing the transaction which Mr H and Mrs H authorised in November 2019 to be debited 
in May 2020 as per the agreement made.
could Lloyds challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr H and 
Mrs H do here, Lloyds (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the chargeback 
process. I dont think Lloyds couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr H and Mrs H 
didnt properly authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already 
set out.
Lloyds is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The cottage rental company would then receive that 
chargeback request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then Lloyds should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is 
warranted, then it can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider (not 
Lloyds) who will then make an independent determination on the matter. So Lloyds isnt 
solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not when going through the 
chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think 
there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Lloyds didnt raise a chargeback here. Its position is that any such chargeback didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of success, so it didnt raise or pursue a chargeback. So Ive 
considered this decision by Lloyds carefully.
Having considered the chargeback reasons available (which are defined and limited in the 
card scheme rules) Im not persuaded Mr H and Mrs H have lost out because Lloyds didnt 
raise a chargeback. I say this because I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of 
success considering the situation and the chargeback rules.
Mr H and Mrs H says they had to cancel due to the restrictions in place. But the booking 
wasnt until the end of July 2020 which was a significant period of time after they cancelled 
the booking by which time the restrictions could have relaxed. Having considered the 
agreement I can see that at a certain date the rental balance became due (the rest of the 
total cost). When Mr H and Mrs H cancelled this enabled them to avoid payment of the rental 
balance and only the deposit remaining (£949.90). This meant a significant saving rather 
than paying the total cost of the rental.
Mr H and Mrs H says couldnt fulfil the contract due to the nature of the group they were 
booking for. But this doesnt mean that the cottage could not fulfil what was agreed. The 
booking confirmation only shows they booked for a number of people. The rental company 
were not on notice when talking the booking of either the government restrictions to come or 
the individuals and households that Mr H and Mrs H intended to have stay at the cottage.I have sympathy with Mr H and Mrs H in the conundrum they was faced and indeed the large 
numbers of people who have suffered in different ways due to the pandemic through no fault 
of their own. But just because theyve lost out doesnt make it fair for other parties to cover 
such losses through no error or fault on their parts.
Mr H and Mrs H says 6 households had entered the agreement. This isnt the case. Mr H 
and Mrs H agreed a contract with the cottage rental company to hire a cottage that could 
accommodate a certain number of people as per the booking confirmation. Mr H and Mrs H 
may have agreements between them and the other people due to stay with them-but that 
isnt part of the agreement they made with the rental company and certainly not agreements 
that Lloyds are responsible for.
Mr H and Mrs H also says We did not break the terms of our agreement the government 
enforced the restrictions. They is correct that they didnt breach the contract as it had 
cancellation clause within it and as they cancelled the company took the money as Mr H and 
Mrs H had previously agreed to. The contract operated as agreed. And it concluded when 
the payment was made on 21 May. What may or may not have happened by the time the 
rental was booked for doesnt make a difference here as the contract had been cancelled 
and concluded some time beforehand.
I do empathise with Mr H and Mrs H for what has happened here. But Lloyds hasnt done 
anything wrong and it would be unfair on Lloyds for it to have to refund this money that Mr H 
and Mrs H agreed to pay in the event that they cancelled. So I dont think I can fairly require 
Lloyds to refund Mr H and Mrs H for the cottage stay. So this complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman