DRN-3607148
The complaint and what happened
Ms G complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont reimburse £34,000 that she 
lost when she fell victim to a scam. 
Our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied NatWest 
ought to have intervened when Ms G made her second payment towards the scam 
investment as the payment was unusual for the account. She asked it to reimburse £29,000 
of the losses plus interest. 
NatWest questions whether the pattern of transactions was unusual, and that if we find it 
should have intervened, we will ultimately be saying it should block all high-value 
transactions. As NatWest didnt agree the outcome, the matter has been referred to me for 
review and determination.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background above, I have read and considered whats 
been provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
the following reasons:
There is no dispute that Ms G authorised the transactions in question. Whilst she 
didnt intend for the money to go to scammers, she is initially presumed liable for the 
loss. There also doesnt appear to be any dispute she has been scammed  there 
was a warning about the merchant published on the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
website part way through the scam. 
NatWest is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts 
to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or 
other indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud; and in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments or declined them altogether to protect 
customers from possible financial harm from fraud or scams.   
In the previous seven months, Ms G barely used the account, with only five debits, 
the highest of which was for £40. So the first payment of £5,000 was a significant 
departure from the accounts previous use. And the payment was going to a new, 
international payee. However, I agree with the investigator that a one off, large 
spend, particularly as it had been transferred in from another account, isnt 
necessarily unusual; people often have one off large spends. 
But the following day Ms G made an identical payment. This was the second 
payment, to the same payee, in as many days. Whilst customers may save for a 
large spend, I dont find that a plausible explanation for two payments of the same 
amount, to the same destination on consecutive days. The amount represents a 
12,400% increase on previous typical spending from the account. I find the second 
payment (and those following it) look unusual and uncharacteristic such that 
NatWests systems ought to have triggered an alert and the payment/s paused, 
pending further intervention  such as making enquiries, or giving a scam warning. 
NatWest argues paying large sums to an investment wouldnt be unusual. I accept 
the general point, but I cant see it knew thats what the payments were for at the 
time.  I understand they were ultimately paid to a crypto-asset wallet. So even if it did 
know the payments were for investment purposes and were going to a crypto-wallet, 
it doesnt follow Ms Gs money was safe, in her control (and NatWests records show 
it wasnt) or that she wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud or a scam. As 
NatWest is aware, and ought to take notice of, both the regulator and Action Fraud 
have been reporting on this type of fraud since 2018.  
Had NatWest carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Ms G about the 
payments, Ive no reason to doubt she would have explained what she was doing. It 
could have provided information about the steps a customer can take to ensure, as 
far as is reasonably possibly, they are dealing with a legitimate person. And it could 
have drawn on its knowledge about the high risks associated with investing into 
crypto-assets, the potential for fraud and provided a scam warning. Had it done so, 
Im satisfied Ms G would have looked into the opportunity further and wouldnt have 
taken at face value comments about competitors posting bad reviews about the 
merchant. Im satisfied a warning from NatWest would likely have exposed the scam 
and caused Ms G to stop investing, thereby preventing the loss of £29,000. 
I have considered whether Ms G ought to bear some responsibility for her losses. It 
does appear she carried some research before investing. It appears she came 
across some negative reviews which she did question the merchant about. And she 
was reassured to be told they had been posted by competitors.  I have thought about 
this carefully, given the imbalance of knowledge between the parties. Overall, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to make a deduction for contributory negligence in this 
case. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require National 
Westminster Bank Plc to:
Refund £29,000 to Ms G; and
Add 8% simple interest on that sum, from the date of the payments to the date of 
settlement, less any lawfully deductible tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman