DRN-3149925
The complaint
Mr D complains about two loans provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited L2G, which he 
says were unaffordable.
What happened
L2G provided Mr D with two loans. Mr D asked for £250 on 13 October 2020. L2G agreed to 
this loan, but Mr D withdrew from the agreement a day later. So as this was the case, and 
the loan was withdrawn, I have not looked into the lending decision here.
Mr D then asked for a loan for £3000 on 19 February 2021. This loan had a term of 24 
months and Mr D would be contracted to repay £362 each month. If the loan ran to term he 
would pay back £8688. I have looked into the lending decision L2G made with this loan.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He said L2G 
didnt make a fair lending decision as Mr D was making a significant payment each month to 
credit commitments and so would not have been able to sustainably repay this loan.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our investigators view. So as this complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has come to me, as an ombudsman, to review and make a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
When L2G lent to Mr D the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
L2G was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Ds creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
L2G had to consider both the risk to it that Mr D wouldnt make the repayments under the 
agreement when due, and the risk to Mr D of not being able to make these repayments. In 
particular, L2G had to consider Mr Ds ability to make repayments under the agreement as 
they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ds case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ds loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
If it did, did L2G then make a fair lending decision?
 If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that L2G asked Mr D about his income and expenditure when he applied for the 
loan in February 2021. It has told our service that it adjusted Mr Ds income and expenditure 
based on an online verification tool and payslips for his income, and its own calculations 
using what it had in front of it for expenditure. This included it assessing credit search results 
that it conducted for Mr D. 
L2G reduced Mr Ds declared income from £2300 a month to £1855.17 after verifying this. It 
then increased what Mr D says his expenditure was of £989, to £1263.07, based on checks 
it carried out this included a credit search. It then added a 10% buffer for any fluctuations in 
spend for Mr D. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said about how it calculated Mr Ds disposable 
income when it agreed to lend to him. I dont think its checks were proportionate because 
there was a discrepancy between what Mr D said about his income and expenditure and 
what it says it could see through its checks. I dont think L2G should have accepted the loan 
knowing or having reason to suspect Mr D wasnt being truthful about his income and 
expenditure. So, I think L2G should either have carried out further checks to see if there 
were good reasons for this, or it shouldnt have provided Mr D with the loan. This leads me 
to think that L2G needed to take steps to verify what Mr Ds actual monthly expenditure was. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mr D with his loan were reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Mr D would 
need to meet his loan repayments over 24 months.Did L2G make a fair lending decision?
Ive concluded the checks L2G carried out werent proportionate and that they needed to do 
more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks, because I dont think L2G made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr D anyway, 
based on what it had in front of it. 
I say this because when I look through the credit search results that L2G would have 
had in front of it, I can see that there were enough signs there that Mr D was having 
problems managing his finances. I can see that he had 2 County Court Judgements 
that had balances to repay. One was from 2017 and another from 2019. Mr D was also 
in an arrangement to pay an outstanding balance on a communications account. He 
had used almost all of the credit available to him with his 2 credit cards and had two 
defaults registered in his name, both with balances left to repay. So, I think this 
information ought to have given L2G concerns about Mr Ds finances at that time.
In addition to what I have just concluded, I agree with the investigator when he said Mr 
D was paying a significant amount of his income to credit commitments. Mr D had 
credit cards to repay along with other credit commitments at that time including his 
CCJs and defaults. This all meant that, once added to the monthly repayment of this 
loan, Mr D was paying such a significant proportion of his monthly income on credit 
repayments that L2G ought to have realised it was unlikely that he would be able to 
sustainably repay his loan over the two-year term. And, in these circumstances, when I 
consider what was shown on the credit search and what it would have found Mr D to 
be committed to, L2G should reasonably have concluded that it was not fair to lend to 
him.
So, I conclude based on what L2G had in front of it, it would have seen Mr D wouldnt have 
been able to make repayments in a sustainable way.  
As Mr D has been indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the loans that 
she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what L2G did wrong.
So, I think L2G needs to put things right.
  
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr D shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for the loan. With this in mind, L2G should:
add up the total amount of money Mr D received as a result of being given loan. The 
payments Mr D made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments made 
after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr D was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr D to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ds credit file because of the loan.*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give Mr D 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint for the reasons set out above and require 
Loans 2 Go Limited, to put things right.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman