DRN-4441441
The complaint
Mr K, Mr K, Mr K and Ms S complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim 
on their travel insurance policy after their flight was cancelled by the airline. 
While the complaint has been brought in joint names, for ease of reading I will refer only to 
Mr K throughout this decision. However all references include the actions of all other 
complainants. 
What happened
Mr K had travel insurance provided as part of his bank account. The insurance was 
underwritten by UKI. 
He had a holiday booked that was due to depart on 3 April 2023. However on 2 April, the 
airline contacted Mr K to say that his outbound flight had been cancelled, due to staff 
shortages following industrial action. The airline was unable to offer an alternative flight until 
the following week, so Mr K was unable to go on the holiday. The airline refunded the cost of 
the flights and Mr K made a claim on his insurance for the accommodation. 
However UKI declined the claim. It said that the policy only covered for delayed or 
abandoned departure when the trip had started, and the flight was cancelled after a delay. 
And in this case the flight was cancelled before they left for the airport and there hadnt been 
a delay.
Mr K wasnt happy with this, he said theyd already checked in online but wouldnt have 
travelled to the airport as the flight was cancelled the day before they were due to travel. He 
made a complaint but UKI didnt uphold it so he brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said as Mr Ks flight had been cancelled before they left for the airport, the relevant section 
of cover would be Cancelling your trip (up to the point of departure). And as this section 
doesnt provide cover for flight cancellations before the trip begins, then UKI acted fairly by 
declining the claim.  
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators outcome and asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI declined Mr Ks claim because it says a cancelled flight isnt covered under the relevant 
section of the policy. It says as Mr K hadnt set off for the airport, then the cover that would 
apply would be Cancelling your trip (up to the point of departure). This cover is described in 
the policy as:
This section provides cover if you need to cancel your trip. The cover starts when you book 
the trip and ends when you reach your point of departure
Under the section, it lists the reasons for cancellation that are covered and it doesnt include 
flights that are cancelled by the airline. 
Ive considered whether UKI has applied its terms and conditions fairly in the circumstances.
Insurance policies dont cover for every eventuality. They list the areas they do cover in the 
policy documents. Here, Mr Ks policy lists three areas that are covered for any trips he 
takes. These are laid out in Part 1  Covers For Your Trip and are described as:
Cancelling Your Trip (up to the point of departure)
Missed, Delayed or Abandoned Departure
Cutting Short Your Trip (after the trip has started)
The policy defines the word Trip to mean: A journey that begins and ends at your home 
during the period of insurance That means that under the policy, it is considered that the 
trip begins when the policyholder leaves their home to depart for the holiday. 
Based on this definition, cover wouldnt be provided under the third section listed above - 
Cutting Short Your Trip (after the trip has started)  as Mr K hadnt left his home at the point 
the need to claim arose. Therefore under the policy the trip hadnt started, so UKI acted fairly 
by not considering the claim under this section.
That leaves two other possible areas of cover. Ive considered whether Mr Ks claim could 
reasonably be considered under the second section - Missed, Delayed or Abandoned 
Departure. The policy document states:
This section provides cover if: 
 You are unable to reach your point of departure or connection in time due to one of the 
reasons listed below. 
 You are delayed for more than two hours after check in. 
 You are unable to return to the UK on your planned return date. 
 You choose to abandon your trip following a delay of 12 hours or more (six hours for a trip 
of four nights or less).
As none of these apply, I agree UKI have acted fairly by not considering the claim under this 
section.
Therefore the only section the claim could be reasonably considered under is Cancelling 
Your Trip (up to the point of departure). This section of cover provides a list of 13 reasons 
for cancellation that the policy provides cover for under this section. And these dont include 
cancellation of the flight by the airline. Based on this, I agree the policy doesnt provide cover 
for the circumstances of this claim and therefore UKI acted fairly by declining the claim. 
I note Mr K has said that there was no point in him departing for the airport when he had 
been informed that the flights were cancelled. And that he did go to the airport the following 
day to try and arrange an alternative flight. I understand Mr Ks point, however whether he 
had gone to the airport or not after the flight cancellation would make no difference to policy cover. In determining which section of the policy applies, the important issue is whether the 
trip has begun or not. And here the flights had been cancelled and there were no suitable 
flights for a week. So even if Mr K and his family had travelled to the airport after learning of 
the flight cancellation, the trip still wouldnt have reasonably begun so the same section of 
cover would apply.
I also understand his point about the measures he took to ensure he had protection in the 
event the trip was cancelled, and I sympathise with his position. However insurance policies 
dont cover for every eventuality. And they explain what they do cover, as well as significant 
exclusions, in the policy document. I note that his specific circumstances arent listed as an 
exclusion in the policy, but it isnt a reasonable expectation for UKI to list every circumstance 
that wouldnt be covered. Instead we expect an insurer to list clearly what is covered, as well 
as any significant exclusions to this cover. The relevant section of cover clearly lists the 
reasons for cancellation that are covered, and Mr Ks circumstances arent included. So its 
reasonable for UKI to decline the claim based on the policy not covering the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K, Mr K, Mr K 
and Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman