DRN-4101892
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) has failed to provide 
correspondence that is clear, fair and not misleading.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known by both parties, so I dont intend to go over them 
again here. Instead I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 March 2023. Barclaycard didnt have 
any further comments to make. Mr T disagreed with my decision, he maintains that the 
misleading information given by Barclaycard caused him significant detriment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
In 2019 Mr T raised two chargebacks with Barclaycard, he was unhappy with how 
Barclaycard handled those chargebacks and so raised a complaint. We have already 
considered Mr Ts complaint about the outcome of those chargebacks and how they were 
handled under a separate complaint reference. So I wont be commenting on those matters 
here. This complaint from Mr T is specifically that, in its final response letter to Mr Ts 
complaint about the chargebacks, Barclaycard provided information about the chargebacks 
that was unclear, unfair, and misleading.
Mr T says that, as a result of the information contained in that final response letter, he did 
not have a full picture of what was happening with his account. 
The final response letter Mr T is referring to stated the following:
We raised chargebacks in relation to the two transactions you wanted to dispute. Whilst one 
chargeback was successful, the other was rejected
Mr T says this is contradicted by what Barclaycard said in a letter sent to him in 2022. This 
later letter said the following:
I understand you raised two chargebacks with us, totalling the amount of £2,112.50. The 
disputes unfortunately failed and we were unable to obtain a refund of the full amount, 
however Im able to see the merchant agreed a partial refund of £343.60, in relation to the 
chargeback for £968.32.
Mr Ts account statements show this more recent letter is correct, one of the chargebacks 
was partially successful. Mr T had received a temporary refund of the full £968.32 on 29 July 
2019, and £624.72 of this was re-debited from his account on 26 September 2019  
essentially meaning he had received a refund of £343.60 on the original payment. Mr T says 
that, on receipt of the first letter, he believed that the chargeback for £968.32 had been 
completely successful, and so none of that amount should have been re-debited from his 
account. Mr T says that Barclaycards first letter therefore was in breach of regulations 
regarding how banks should communicate with their customers, specifically in relation to the 
requirement for communications to be clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive carefully considered the regulations Mr T has referred to, as well as other relevant 
regulations and guidance. I can understand why Mr T feels as he does, I can see how the 
information contained in the final response letter could have been taken to mean that one of 
his chargeback claims had been entirely successful. I note that its possible he was sent 
other correspondence about that chargeback, which may have made it clearer exactly how 
much he would be receiving back from the merchant, but given the time that has passed, 
that correspondence appears to be no longer available so we cant be certain what he was 
told.
I do think I must bear in mind that the final response letter Mr T is complaining about was 
intended to address Mr Ts complaint that his chargebacks had not been dealt with properly 
by Barclaycard. The purpose of the letter was not to provide detailed information regarding 
the outcome of Mr Ts chargebacks. However, I agree that it was not as clear as it could 
have been.
But I dont agree that any unclearness in Barclaycards correspondence with Mr T has 
caused him detriment, and therefore I dont consider it appropriate to award any 
compensation for what has happened here. 
Mr T has said that as he thought more had been refunded to his account than had actually 
been refunded, he did not agree with the amount he was told he was owed when 
Barclaycard began sending him letters regarding the outstanding balance of his account. 
Hes said he asked for clarification but did not receive any, and that he was unable to view 
his statements at that time. Mr T has suggested that if the situation had been clearer then he 
may have been able to avoid the default on this account.
But Ive seen the letters that Barclaycard sent to Mr T during this period, which clearly set 
out that Mr T was not making any payments to his account. They explained how much 
Barclaycard needed him to pay to bring his account back in order, and made it clear that he 
was over £1,000 over his arranged credit limit. So even if he thought he owed around £600 
less than Barclaycard was saying he owed, its not clear why Mr T wouldnt have taken steps 
to repay any of the outstanding balance of his account  which was around £4,000 at that 
time  or to make even the minimum payments required given that Barclaycard had made it 
clear that he was at risk of default if he didnt take action.
Mr T has also said that the unclear information meant he was not in a position to properly 
challenge the merchant regarding Section 75 of the consumer credit Act 1974. The 
ombudsman who dealt with Mr Ts previous complaint to our service explained why Section 
75 either would not apply or would be unlikely to be successful, and the reasons he gave 
would apply to the £968.32 payments as well as to the £1144.18 payment that the 
ombudsman was specifically commenting on. So regardless of what information he had at 
the time, Mr T would likely not have been able to successfully claim under Section 75. And 
given that both chargebacks appear to have been pursued to the extent expected by 
Barclaycard, I cant see how Mr T being aware of the specific amount that was returned to 
him from the £968.32 transaction would have changed the outcome here.
So in summary, with everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that while Barclaycards final 
response letter could have been clearer, ultimately this has not changed the outcome of the chargebacks raised, affected his ability to claim under Section 75, or caused Mr T any 
financial detriment. I also find that the default process was carried out fairly and clearly. So 
overall, I consider Barclaycard has treated Mr T fairly, and consider it was not unreasonable 
for it to default his account given the circumstances.
I appreciate Mr T taking the time to respond to my provisional decision, but having carefully 
considered his comments my findings remain the same. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I agree that Barclaycards final response letter 
could have been clearer, but I dont agree that lack of clarity means that compensation is 
due or that the default that has been recorded should be changed or removed.  
I say this because I dont agree that Mr T being unaware that one claim had been partially 
successful, rather than entirely successful, has affected his ability to pursue his claims. Mr T 
thinks he would have been in a better position to defend his chargeback and to pursue a 
claim under Section 75 if he had known why one of the claims was partially successful. But 
his argument as to why he felt he had not been provided with the service hed paid for would 
arguably be the same regardless of whether one claim was successful or not. And as noted 
in my provisional decision, under Mr Ts earlier case we explained why Section 75 would 
very likely not apply to these payments, so I also cant see how any additional information 
would have changed that situation.
As Ive said, I agree that Mr T was given unclear information, but given that I dont consider 
that unclear information affected the outcome of his chargeback claims I dont consider that 
any compensation is due for that lack of clarity. 
Regarding the default, Mr T has said he asked for repayment plans or a payment holiday but 
that Barclaycard would not help him. Hes commented on the fact that the COVID pandemic 
meant many lenders were offering payment holidays or repayment plans during the period 
when his account was defaulted. But Mr Ts account was already many months in arrears 
before the start of the pandemic  the default notice was issued only a few days after the 
first lockdown was announced  and before any guidance from the government was issued 
regarding financial difficulties caused by the pandemic.
I appreciate that Mr T disagreed with the amount he was then asked to repay, but Im 
satisfied the correspondence he was sent at that stage was clear. The letters he received up 
to and including the default notice set out the missed payments he needed to pay. When he 
got in touch with Barclaycard he was then asked to repay the full overlimit balance. Mr T 
says he did not agree that amount was correct, but even so I have to consider that he didnt 
make any payment towards the outstanding balance, and hadnt done for several months 
prior to the default. With this in mind I remain satisfied that it was reasonable for Barclaycard 
to default Mr Ts account.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr T, but for the reasons explained above my findings 
set out in my provisional decision remain unchanged. I agree that Barclaycards 
correspondence with Mr T regarding the outcome of his chargebacks could have been 
clearer, but Im satisfied that did not adversely affect his ability to defend his chargeback 
claim, his ability to raise a Section 75 claim, or his position regarding the default of his 
account.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman