DRN-1505132
 
The complaint
Mr W complains about that esure Insurance Limited has registered a fault claim on his car 
insurance following an accident.
What happened
Mr W has car insurance with esure. In May 2019 he was involved in a collision with another 
driver. 
esure accepted that Mr W was at fault for the collision. It was recorded as a fault claim. But 
Mr W didnt think this was fair. He said the other vehicle crashed into his as he was changing 
lanes. And that it had slowed down, so he thought it was letting him in. He also said he was 
driving very slowly so was showing caution. He therefore didnt agree it was his fault. He 
also said esure hadnt responded to a number of emails and had provided poor service. He 
made a complaint to esure.
esure partially upheld his complaint. It accepted it had provided poor service and some 
emails had gone unanswered. And it offered £100 compensation to make up for the 
inconvenience caused. However it said when a driver is moving from one lane to another, it 
is their responsibility to ensure it is safe before moving across. So it said it was right to 
accept Mr W was liable for the incident.
Mr W didnt accept this. He brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said that she felt esure had considered the circumstances and evidence and come to a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Mr W didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service doesnt decide whos at fault for an incident. Thats the role of the courts. 
Instead, we look at whether the insurer acted in line with the policy terms and made a fair 
and reasonable decision. Under Mr Ws policy esure has the right to defend or settle any 
claim on his behalf. That means it might make a decision Mr W disagrees with, but the policy 
allows it to do so. I can consider whether its decision to do so was reasonable. Having done 
so, I think it was. 
Ive considered Mr Ws comments and detailed account of the accident. And I appreciate his 
strength of feeling that the incident wasnt his fault. esure says it was right to accept liability as when a driver is moving into another lane, the 
onus is on them to ensure it is safe to do so and not those that are already established in the 
other lane. It says that as a crash occurred, it clearly was unsafe to do so. Based on that it 
accepted liability for the collision. 
Mr W has also referred to rule 134 from the highway code:
you should follow the signs and road markings and get into the lane as directed. 
In congested road conditions do not change lanes unnecessarily. Merging in turn 
is recommended but only if safe and appropriate when vehicles are travelling at a very low 
speed, e.g. when approaching road works or a road traffic incident. It is not recommended at 
high speed.
He says as he was travelling at a very low speed this shows he was compliant with the rule. 
Esure has responded directly to this in its final response. It said that as the impact happened 
when Mr W moved his car, it doesnt consider it was safe and appropriate to change lanes. 
Therefore it felt he hadnt complied with this rule. 
I realise this will be a disappointment for Mr W. But overall, having considered everything 
provided, I cant say esures decision to accept liability was unfair or unreasonable.  
Mr W has referred to guidance on various websites about zip merging. Ive considered 
these but dont feel they are relevant to this complaint. The articles are discussion pieces 
about the relative benefits of a type of queuing in avoiding accidents.  And therefore not 
something I would expect esure to reasonably consider in its investigation. 
In regards to service provided, I can see that esure has left a number of emails without a 
response. It has offered £100 to make up for the inconvenience this would have caused.  I 
think this is fair in the circumstances. So I wont ask esure to do anything differently or in 
addition.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require esure Insurance Limited to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman