DRN-1579770
 
The complaint
Mrs B has complained to us about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which 
MBNA Limited (MBNA) sold to her with a credit card in 1998. 
background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs B disagreed and so its been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain the reasons 
for this.
The sale took place a long time ago and because of this most of the information is no longer 
available. This isnt particularly unusual, given how long ago the sale was. In addition, the 
account closed in 2006. Ive used my knowledge and experience of PPI sales to help me 
think about what might have happened. Ive also looked carefully at what the parties 
have said. 
First of all, Ive looked at whether MBNA made it clear enough that the policy was optional. 
Mrs B told us PPI wasnt discussed and she was not made aware PPI was optional. MBNA 
told us its records show the policy was sold by phone call, after Mrs B had submitted a form 
to apply for the card. But due to the time thats passed the recording of the call is no 
longer available. 
Mrs B says she wasnt given a choice to have PPI but her recollections are not detailed 
about what happened. This is entirely understandable given how much time has passed 
since the sale. I also havent been able to see any original sales documentation either so it 
has been difficult to work out what happened. But based on what I know of how sales were 
conducted at that time by MBNA during the phone call, and without any supporting evidence 
or a detailed testimony, I cant safely conclude that the policy was sold as Mrs B says it was. 
I just havent seen enough on this occasion to do that. 
Next, MBNA says it wouldnt have recommended the PPI cover with the credit card and after 
looking through what I do have I agree that it didnt. So this means it wasnt under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Mrs Bs situation. But it did have to give her 
enough information about the policy, so she could make a decision for herself whether to 
take it out. 
Given the time that has passed, its not possible to say for certain whether Mrs B received all 
the correct information. But I know that the cost of the policy was comparable to the cost of 
other similar policies available at the time. From the information Mrs B provided, she had 
very little in sick pay or savings, so I think she probably decided that she had a need of the 
safety net PPI could provide. So although the benefit provided by the policy was modest I 
think she wouldve wanted the reassurance of it being available if needed. In addition, given 
her circumstances at the time of the sale, she wouldnt have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions or restrictions under the policy. So having considered all the available 
evidence, I dont being given clearer information about the PPI would have dissuaded Mrs B 
from taking out the policy. So on balance, I think she probably agreed to the PPI and I dont 
require MBNA to put anything right. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman