DRN-2981597
The complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money she lost, which she believes 
was as the result of a scam.
What happened
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the background to be as follows.
Miss M has said she had been searching for some time, for a sofa online. As a result, Miss 
M had been following a furniture company on Instagram for over a year, which shes said 
had over 230,000 followers.
Miss M has said shed seen a number of adverts showing celebrities who had made 
purchases from the company and that a friend had also recommended the company to her.  
As well as this, Miss M has said she carried out her own research, and although she didnt 
find any information about the company on Google, she didnt find any information which 
caused her concern and saw positive testimonials on celebrities Instagram pages about the 
company. Alongside this Miss M said shed seen the company were registered as an active 
business on Companies House.
Having seen a sofa she was interested in buying, in May 2020, Miss M contacted the 
furniture company via Instagram and discussed purchasing the sofa. And having exchanged 
messages, she agreed a price and to make the purchase. Miss M offered to make the 
payment by PayPal, but was told the furniture company didnt have a PayPal account and it 
asked for the payment to be made by bank transfer. Miss M has said she received an 
invoice and on 7 May 2020, went ahead and made a payment for £1,929.00.
The furniture company told Miss M that the delivery time for the sofa would be between 10-
13 weeks. In the meantime, Miss M has told us she received samples (of fabric) from the 
furniture company and she continued to receive messages from the company. In one of the 
messages Miss M was told that, due to the situation with the pandemic, the delivery date 
would be delayed, but a new delivery date was given.
When the sofa didnt arrive Miss M tried to contact the furniture company, but found the 
number on Instagram wasnt working and she didnt receive a reply to her emails. But she 
then saw an Instagram message had been released, to say the company had gone into 
liquidation in August 2020.
Realising something was wrong, Miss M contacted Lloyds. Lloyds issued its final response 
on 17 November 2020, not upholding Miss Ms complaint. It considered whether it ought to 
refund Miss M for her loss. Lloyds is a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM Code) and so also considered its obligations under it. But it did not think Miss 
M had been the victim of a scam. It said a scam is a fraudulent scheme to obtain money 
dishonestly, where an individual or a group would misrepresent as someone else. Lloyds 
said, in Miss Ms case, the person she sent the money to was genuine, but she never 
received the goods and this is not covered by the CRM Code. Lloyds went on to say that the 
furniture company was a registered business on Companies House.
Miss M then brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint, as she considered this was a 
dispute between Miss M and the seller. In summary, she said this because; she considered 
the furniture company was a legitimate supplier of home and furniture items who had an 
established record of successfully providing customers with goods; there had been multiple 
positive reviews regarding the company; the company was registered with Companies 
House and Miss M was initially receiving prompt responses to questions she raised with the 
company and with regular updates. Overall our investigator didnt think the company 
intended to deceive Miss M, but rather it found itself operationally unable to provide the 
goods, because it went into liquidation.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In summary, she didnt agree that this 
wasnt a scam. Miss M maintained that the people running the company had a history of 
setting up business and then putting them into liquidation following large orders, and that 
there was never the intention for her to receive a sofa.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having thought very carefully about Lloyds actions, Im not intending to uphold Miss Ms 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Lloyds should reimburse her. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss M, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that her money should be returned to her. Its understandable having lost such a 
significant sum why Miss M feels she has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases where 
individuals have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Lloyds has 
signed up to and was in force at the time Miss M made the payment.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payment Miss M made and, in particular, whether Lloyds ought to 
reimburse her under the provisions of the CRM Code. But the CRM Code is quite explicit 
that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in 
some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payment Miss M made formed part of a civil 
dispute and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code. Miss M strongly disagrees. She feels 
the seller set out with the intention to scam her.
After taking everything into careful consideration, so the testimony and evidence provided by 
both parties, Ive not seen anything that I can safely say meets the high legal threshold and 
burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a legitimate business failing 
and not being able to honour its customers orders as a result of going into liquidation.
Its clear the agreement Miss M entered into with the company did not go as planned and 
she has not received what she was expecting. And I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly about what has happened. There may even have been some sharp practice in 
terms of how the company was operated. But I cant safely say with any certainty, that the 
company set out with an intent to defraud her.
The company Miss M paid was a registered limited company, which had been incorporated 
in 2018 and whose principle activity was the manufacturing of soft furnishings and the retail 
of furniture. And Im mindful that it appears the company had a large following, with many 
reviews indicating other customers had orders successfully completed  indeed Miss M has 
said herself that the company was recommended to her by a friend.
I understand that this company was bought to the attention of Trading Standards, but Im not 
aware of the outcome of any ongoing investigations by Trading Standards, or any other 
authority, which would lead me to safely conclude there was an intent to defraud. Based on 
what Ive seen, while I cant rule out there may have been some questionable sales tactics, 
Ive not seen anything that I can safely say meets the high legal threshold and burden of 
proof for fraud.
Rather, this appears to be a case of a legitimate company that has fallen into liquidation and 
subsequently been unable to meet its obligations to its customers. So, on balance, taking 
into account everything thats been said and provided, I cant fairly conclude that Miss M  
has been a victim of a scam or that the company she made her payments to were operating 
fraudulently.
This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly ask Lloyds 
to refund the money Miss M has lost, as I dont think Lloyds treated Miss M unfairly when it 
said the payment she made was not covered by the CRM Code. And I dont think there was 
anything else Lloyds could have done to prevent her loss.
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Miss M and I dont underestimate the 
impact this matter has had on her. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask Lloyds to refund the money Miss M has lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint 
against Lloyds Bank PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman