DRN-2974601
The complaint
Mr H had two fixed term savings accounts with Atom Bank PLC (Atom). He complains 
about the customer service he received when those accounts were about to mature.
What happened
Mr H is unhappy that Atom didnt provide him with the opportunity to select maturity options 
for his accounts through their app when their fixed term was coming to an end in March 
2021. 
He says he received an email from Atom to say that, while he had given them maturity 
instructions in the past through the app, they were currently working on an upgrade to the 
app to improve the customer experience, so he would need to call them to select his options. 
Mr H says he doesnt like having to call organisations, and had deliberately chosen to bank 
with Atom, an online bank, so that he could operate his accounts online. So he waited until 
the accounts had matured, thinking the app upgrade would be completed by then. It wasnt. 
He then tried to transfer his money through the live facility on the app but was again told hed 
need to call them to do this. He found this very frustrating. He was also annoyed that the 
person he spoke to on the live facility said Atom didnt have his linked account details. 
Mr H then went on download the statements for the accounts. However, the statements for 
both accounts were incorrect, showing a significantly lower balance in the accounts than 
they should have done.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He said he could understand Mr Hs preference 
for not having to phone organisations. However, the relevant account terms and conditions 
state that, although their accounts are designed to be accessed through their app, in some 
situations customers might be required to do things by phone. The terms and conditions also 
state that from time to time Atom may update or modify the app to implement improvements. 
Our investigator said that in this case Atom were upgrading the app to try to improve it for 
their customers, and that Mr H was still able to manage his accounts by phoning Atom. 
Although he recognised that wasnt ideal for Mr H, he didnt think Atom had done anything 
wrong. Thats because it wasnt unreasonable for Atom to upgrade their app, and Mr H was 
warned about the upgrade.
Our investigator also looked into the problem with the statements. He said that Atom have 
confirmed that there was a known statement issue at this time that meant the total balance 
wasnt reflected correctly in annual statements. However, the full balance was displayed 
correctly in the closing statements that were issued.
Our investigator recognised this. However, he said that there was a large difference between 
the amounts Mr H thought he had in the accounts and the at a glance balance shown on 
the statements Mr H downloaded. He also said that Atom didnt provide an explanation for 
what might have happened to the money Mr H had had in the accounts, so he understood 
why Mr H was worried by the statements he downloaded, thinking the money might have 
been lost.
However, our investigator could see that Mr H got in touch with Atom soon after he 
downloaded the statements. Mr H was assured that the money in the accounts wasnt lost 
and was able to transfer the money in them into another account. So, he could see that the 
problem with the statements and the question of what Mr H wanted to do with the money in 
the accounts was cleared up promptly after Mr H phoned Atom. 
Our investigator concluded that Atom should pay Mr H £30 compensation for the stress and 
upset he was caused when he first saw the statements. He didnt think Mr H should be 
awarded compensation for having to phone Atom to tell it what he wanted to do with the 
money in the accounts once they matured.
Atom paid the £30 to Mr H, although it said that Mr H had not complained to it about this 
matter before he complained to us. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
He said he hadnt agreed to the £30 compensation. As Atom is an app-based bank he felt he 
should be able to do everything to manage his account using its app. He felt that Atom 
downgraded the app and removed his ability to use it to decide what he wanted to do with 
his money on maturity. He didnt think Atom should be allowed to rely on the terms and 
conditions to do this, and he thinks he should be awarded more compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think it would be fair for me to require Atom to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint now that it has paid the £30 our investigator recommended. Ill explain 
why.
Mr H has said that Atom is an online bank, so it was unreasonable for him to have to phone 
Atom to tell it he wanted to do with his money on maturity. As far as hes concerned he 
should be able to do everything he needs to manage his account on the app. He says Atom 
already had all the information it needed (including linked account details) to do this.
I appreciate Mr Hs strength of feeling about this, and his strong preference to avoid having 
to phone businesses. However, I think Atom was entitled to make changes to its app for 
business reasons, and I understand why it might need to remove certain features from its 
app while it did this. The terms and conditions of Mr Hs accounts were clear that Atom was 
able to update or modify the app to implement improvements.
It was unfortunate that Atom made the changes to its app around the time Mr Hs accounts 
matured, and I understand how frustrating this was to Mr H. He has talked about how he felt 
the app was downgraded, not upgraded, and how he felt the person that he spoke to using 
Atoms live in-app facility shouldve been able to do more to help him. However, Ive seen 
nothing to indicate that Atom acted to permanently downgrade the app as Mr H has 
suggested. Mr H wasnt prevented from managing his account or accessing his money. 
Once he phoned Atom, he was able to select his maturity options and arrange for his money 
to be transferred to another account. Im also conscious that Mr H was warned about the 
upgrade before his accounts matured. So he knew what he needed to do to manage his 
money.
Like our investigator, I can also appreciate that Mr H was concerned about the balances in 
the statement he downloaded. He told us that he was distressed by what happened, and I 
can understand why. However Mr H also told us that the main part of his complaint was about the fact that he was required to phone Atom to move his money when his accounts 
matured. I think the £30 Atom has paid him after our investigator recommended it reflects 
the impact the incorrect statements had on him and amount of time he was affected. I can 
also see that this matter was dealt with promptly once Mr H contacted Atom about it. My role 
isnt to punish Atom for what happened.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Atom Bank PLC to pay Mr H £30 compensation to reflect 
the upset the incorrect bank statements caused Mr H. I understand that it has already paid 
Mr H the £30 so I dont think it needs to anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Atom Bank PLC needs to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman