DRN-4467888
The complaint
Mr U complains on behalf of a limited company, S, that Amazon Payments UK Limited 
blocked access to his funds. Hed like his funds released and compensation for the impact. 
What happened
Mr U is the sole director of S. 
S had an account with Amazon. 
In July 2022 Amazon asked S to provide documents for seller verification. On August 2022 
Mr U, on behalf of S, sent in documents to Amazon. However, on reviewing the documents 
Amazon werent satisfied with what Mr U provided and they decided to suspend his account. 
Mr U sent in further documents on 24 August 2022 however Amazon didnt unblock his 
account. 
Amazon informed Mr U that theyd hold on to his funds for 90 days. However, on 
8 November 2022  when the 90 day period was up  Ss funds remained restricted.
Mr U contacted Amazon to ask why they still hadnt released Ss funds. Amazon advised 
Mr U that although theyd informed him of the 90 day restriction, they may hold on to funds 
for longer as per their terms and conditions. 
On 14 January 2023 Mr U provided further verification documents to Amazon  however 
they continued to restrict Ss access to the funds. 
Mr U raised a complaint with Amazon, but Amazon didnt uphold it  so Mr U brought Ss 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Ss complaint. They asked Amazon for more details 
about why they restricted Ss account and what hed need to provide to allow the funds to be 
released. Our investigator also shared some documents which Mr U provided our service, 
which Amazon confirmed theyd already received on 14 January 2023. After sharing the 
documents Amazon arranged a virtual interview with Mr U to verify his identity on 
8 September 2023.  
Amazon confirmed that Mr U passed the interview, and they were assessing the documents 
he sent in. And on 1 November 2023 the funds were released to Mr U. 
Our investigator thought that Amazon initially acted fairly in restricting his account and 
asking for verification documents, however once Mr U provided satisfactory Know Your 
Customer (KYC) documentation in January 2023 Amazon should have reviewed their 
position. And released S's funds a week later by 23 January 2023. 
Mr U accepted our investigators findings but Amazon didnt. Amazon argued that theyd 
restricted Ss account to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. 
As no agreement has been reached its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amazon made its submission to our service in confidence. Our rules permit this; its then for 
me to decide whether its fair to rely on evidence that only one party has seen. Its not a one-
sided rule; either party to a complaint can submit evidence in confidence if they wish to, and 
well then decide if its fair to rely on it.
Here, the information (and its source) is sensitive and on balance I dont believe it should be 
disclosed. But its also clearly material to the issue of whether Amazon has treated Mr U 
fairly. So Im persuaded I should take it into account when deciding the outcome of the 
complaint.
Amazon are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. Having looked at whats happened I 
appreciate why Mr U may have found this inconvenient, but Amazon must ensure they keep 
their due diligence checks updated at all times. 
As part of their review, Amazon asked Mr U for detailed information about the funds in his 
account and identify verification documents  which theyre entitled to do under their 
obligations. Having reviewed everything, I do think Amazons requests were reasonable in 
the circumstances. Ultimately its Amazon who decide what information they require as part 
of a due diligence review and they have a duty to protect their customers money and 
understand where it came from. Because of that, I cant fairly conclude Amazon acted 
inappropriately in initially blocking Ss account.
However, although Im satisfied Amazons decision to initially restrict Ss account was fair, I 
also need to consider if Amazon should have released Ss funds sooner. Having considered 
this, I think they should have released Ss funds much sooner than they did. On being 
provided with verification documents by our investigator Amazon scheduled a virtual 
interview with Mr U in September 2023. But, Amazon confirmed that theyd received the 
same documents on 14 January 2023. I cant see why, if Amazon received the documents in 
January 2023, they didnt organise a virtual interview at this time. I think the virtual interview, 
and Amazons KYC checks, should have been carried out within seven days of the 
documents being resubmitted. And therefore Mr Us funds should have been released by 
23 February 2023. 
Putting things right
I think S were deprived of access to their funds from 23 January 2023 to 1 November 2023. I 
think 8% annual interest during this period is fair compensation for the impact caused to S. 
Ive considered whether any additional distress and inconvenience should be paid to S. Mr U 
has mentioned feeling distressed by Amazons actions, however as a limited company S 
cant experience inconvenience or distress. Mr U hasnt provided evidence of the impact of 
the restriction on Ss business operations so I cant conclude S is due any further 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Ss complaint and direct Amazon Payments UK Ltd to:Pay S 8% interest on the account funds from 23 January 2023 to 1 November 2023
HM Revenue & Customs require Amazon Payments UK Limited to withhold income tax from 
the abovementioned interest. Amazon Payments UK Limited should give S a certificate 
showing how much is taken off if it asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman