DRN-3170077
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited wouldnt provide a further
replacement tablet, when the replacement she received after making a claim, developed
problems after about 18 months.
What happened
Mrs S has household contents insurance with Lloyds. In February 2019 she made a claim
under her policy for a lost tablet. Lloyds provided her with a replacement. In August 2020 the
camera on the replacement tablet developed a problem and Mrs S contacted Lloyds as she
wanted a further replacement, and the tablets 12-month warranty had expired.
Lloyds declined this further claim saying that theyd only cover a claim made within six
months of the new tablet being supplied. And after 18 months they said any problem was
likely to be as a result of wear and tear, which isnt covered by Mrs Ss policy, rather than as
a result of the replacement tablet being faulty.
Mrs S then raised a complaint which Lloyds didnt uphold. They said that as the tablet was
outside the 12-month warranty period when the fault developed, they couldnt offer a further
replacement or repair. But they did apologise for the numerous calls she told them shed had
to make about her claim. And they offered her £50 compensation for poor customer service.
Mrs S was unhappy with Lloyds response and complained to our service. Our investigator
considered the case and accepted that after 18 months any problem with the tablet was
likely to be caused by wear and tear. And this wasnt covered by her policy.
Mrs S also told us the manufacturers had told her shed be protected by consumer law for 72
months, but our investigator said this was only if there was evidence of a technical fault, and
there was no such evidence. So he didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything.
Since our investigator provided his opinion, weve asked Lloyds to provide a copy of any
diagnostic report prepared on the tablet while it was with them. Which theyve now done.
This shows that when the diagnostic was run, it didnt show any fault with the camera,
although it did show that the software wasnt up to date.
When we advised Mrs S of this, she told us she also had a report which confirmed that the
camera was faulty. Shes now sent us not a report, but a screenshot from her tablet dated 18
October 2021, which shows what she says she sees when she tries to take a photograph
with her tablet.
The case then came to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 26 October 2021. And in it I said the following: -
When Mrs S contacted Lloyds to report the fault with her tablet, she had to call a number of
times before they took any action. Lloyds have acknowledged that they didnt provide an
appropriate level of customer service. Theyve paid Mrs S £50 compensation for this which I
think is reasonable.
Mrs Ss policy covers her personal belongings, which would include the replacement tablet
Lloyds provided, but specifically states that damage caused by wear and tear isnt covered.
When Lloyds declined Mrs Ss claim they said, that after 18 months any problem with the
camera on the tablet was likely to be the result of wear and tear, which isnt covered by her
policy.
Lloyds returned the tablet to Mrs S and shes told us the camera still isnt working. And shes
now sent us a screenshot of the image she says appears on her tablet when she tries to
take a photograph.
The diagnostic report prepared when the tablet was with Lloyds doesnt show any fault with
the tablet, or its camera. But it does show that the software on the tablet wasnt up to date.
When we sent a copy of the report to Mrs S, she told us she had her own report which
showed there was a fault with the camera. Shes now sent us, not a report, but a screenshot
dated 18 October 2021, which she says shows the image she sees when she tries to take a
photograph with her tablet.
The diagnostic report Lloyds obtained was prepared when Mrs S first reported a problem
with her tablet. The tablet was then around 18 months old and Lloyds said they wouldnt
replace it as it was outside the warranty period. They didnt make it clear to Mrs S that theyd
been unable to find a fault with the tablet, and I think they should have done.
But its now been over a year since Mrs S first raised her complaint with Lloyds, and I dont
think it would be fair for me to say Lloyds should take any action, based on the screenshot
shes provided.
There was no fault found when Mrs S first raised the problem with Lloyds. And if the camera
is faulty now, theres no evidence of what has caused any fault, or when this arose. So I
wont be asking Lloyds to do anything.
So my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Since I issued my provisional decision Lloyds have told us they have no further comments to 
make. 
And Mrs S has said that even though the screenshot shes sent us is dated 18 October 
2021, this was the original screenshot she sent to Lloyds went the problem arose with her 
tablet, and she found this in her photo archives.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs S has now told us about the screenshot shes provided. Shes now 
said that this was taken at the time she reported the problems with the camera to Lloyds. But 
I dont think an image of a blurred screen is persuasive evidence of a fault with the camera, 
when Lloyds have provided a diagnostic report that didnt show any fault. Although I still 
think that Lloyds should have told Mrs S what the report said.I havent changed my opinion that it wouldnt be fair of me to say Lloyds should take any 
action, based on the screenshot Mrs S has provided. So I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman