DRN-2621117
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection
insurance (PPI) to protect their mortgage.
What happened
In my provisional decision sent in January 2021 I said:
Ive provisionally decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make Mr and Mrs S aware the PPI was optional and gain their consent
before adding the policy to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs S say they didnt know they had PPI
and didnt agree to take it.
The PPI was taken a long time ago and there is limited information available from the time. I
dont think this is unusual considering businesses arent required to keep this type of
information indefinitely. From the information that is available I dont have enough to say
Santander didnt make it clear the PPI was optional, or that Mr and Mrs S didnt choose to
have it.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, so it had to check that the PPI was right
for them. Mr and Mrs S told us they werent entitled to any sick pay and didnt have any
savings when they took the policy.
Mr and Mrs S have also told us that Mr S was self-employed when the policy was taken out.
As the policy is unlikely to have covered people that were self-employed our adjudicator
upheld the complaint on the basis Mr S would not have been able to make a claim. But we
have since asked Mr and Mrs S for evidence of Mr Ss employment status which has not
been provided. Without evidence of this I cant confirm Mr S was self-employed when the
policy was taken out.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time they werent affected
by any of the remaining exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a
need for the cover. So, I think the recommendation was suitable.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as
it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take the policy - so it looks like they wanted this
type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong.
It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would
have put them off taking out the cover.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So, Santander doesnt need to refund what
Mr and Mrs S paid for it.
I gave Mr and Mrs S, and Santander time to respond, but no further information was 
provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But as neither side responded to my provisional decision with anything further for me to 
consider I see no reason to come to a different decision to that explained above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman