DRN-2842918
The complaint
Mr M has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund him for multiple transactions he 
says he didnt make between 15 July 2020 and 23 July 2020.
What happened
On 24 July 2020, Mr M told Barclays that he had noticed multiple transactions totalling 
£3,630.00 debiting his account to a gambling website (the merchant) which he disputed.
 
Barclays says initially Mr M explained he had lost his wallet, which contained his debit card 
and his ID. Barclays blocked his debit card and on 27 July 2020, Barclays temporarily 
credited Mr Ms account whilst it investigated the matter. This credit was later removed on 23 
September 2020, as Barclays concluded Mr M was liable for the disputed transactions 
because it believed he authorised them.
Barclays paid Mr M £50.00 for the delays he experienced in logging his complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said the evidence suggested Mr M 
authorised the transactions. She considered £50 offered by Barclays was a fair amount of 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr M didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 7 May 2021 covered the 
detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Mr Ms testimony. Whilst Ive 
concentrated on what I think is the crux of the complaint, Ive read and listened to everything 
he and Barclays have sent us. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what 
I think is the right outcome
Its important to highlight that with cases like this I cant know for certain what has happened. 
So, I need to weigh up the evidence available and make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the 
circumstances.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im also required to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant rules here. As a starting point, 
Barclays can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
So, when I look at whether a bank has acted fairly in declining someones fraud complaint, 
one of the things I consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then I generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them. 
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Barclays and Mr M have told us. Having carefully considered everything that both 
sides have said and provided, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Mr 
M authorised the transactions he disputes. Ive explained why below:
A payment needs to be correctly authenticated and made with the customers consent in 
order to be regarded as authorised. 
The evidence provided by the merchant indicates that Mr Ms card was used with the correct 
security details entered. The merchant explained a further 3D authentication process was 
carried out whereby the cardholder would be directed to an authentication page on their 
banks website, and they would enter a password associated with the card or a code was 
sent to their phone. So, Im satisfied the payment was authenticated using the correct card 
details. 
But a payment out of someones account can only be treated as authorised if the payer has
consented to it. When a customer disputes a transaction, I consider three possibilities:
the transaction was completed by an unknown third party, the transaction was completed by 
a known third party or the transaction was completed by the customer.
The evidence provided indicates an account was set up in Mr Ms name with the merchant 
using Mr Ms name address and other personal details including his bank card details. Mr M 
disputes the contact telephone number is his. I can see its different from the mobile number 
Barclays had on its records; although that doesnt automatically mean the number doesnt 
belong to him, but it is a possibility I have considered.
Mr M also explained to us that his email login details had been compromised. So I accept its 
possible someone else could have used Mr Ms email account to verify the account with the 
merchant or intercepted the code via the different mobile number to complete the second 
stage of authentication. 
However, whilst this is a possibility, on balance I dont feel the overall evidence supports this 
scenario. I say this for the following reasons:
According to Barclays initial claim log, Mr M reported he was in possession of the 
card at the time the fraud was committed.
Mr M told us he lost his wallet with debit card before the disputed transactions took 
place, but he did not report the matter to the bank for over a week. This seems odd to 
me; either not to notice his wallet and card was missing or to leave reporting it is 
missing for such a long time. 
Mr M made a claim for the deposits to the merchant but did not mention he had also 
received some credits from the merchant.
There is no benefit to anyone other than the genuine cardholder, to access the 
gambling account as any winnings would have been returned to the same card. The 
winnings from the account in Mr Ms name, credited Mr Ms Barclays account.Mr Ms mobile banking was accessed during the period in question. Mr M confirmed 
that he uses mobile banking. He told us the passcode to access his mobile banking 
wasnt shared with anyone and it isnt written down. Mr M confirmed his phone has 
fingerprint touch ID and a passcode to access it. He also told us that no one had 
access to his phone in order to access his mobile banking app. Mr M hasnt said he 
lost his phone or online mobile banking details. Im therefore satisfied that it was Mr 
M that accessed his mobile banking during the period in question. And he didnt 
dispute the transactions during this time, only after the last disputed transaction was 
made.
Mr M logged on to his account via mobile banking on five separate occasions during 
the period in question. There were numerous transactions for the disputed activity. 
Mr M ought reasonably to have noticed the activity on his account. Having noticed it 
he ought reasonably to have raised the issue straightaway.
Mr M made a number of other transactions during the period in question via his 
mobile banking. Initially Mr M said he did not recognise these transactions but later 
confirmed they were him. On 17 July 2020, Mr M transferred £8,153.17 from his 
account.
The disputed activity looks like it was funded by transactions from Mr Ms business 
account, and from another business account Mr M was associated with.
The disputed transactions stopped after the card was cancelled which suggested the 
person making the transactions knew the card had been cancelled.
The pattern of the payments is inconsistent with that of an unknown fraudster with full 
access to Mr Ms online banking. There are also unusually large gaps, up to two days 
between disputed payments. More commonly a fraudster will try to take as much as 
they can, as quickly as possible, before they are discovered as delay risks their 
access being blocked.
Barclays told us there were no balance enquiries but in fact there was one on the day before 
the first disputed transaction and there were cash withdrawals two of which were declined 
because the daily limit had been reached. But Mr M hasnt disputed these transactions, and 
they are not unusual compared to historic activity of the account - both in terms of the 
amounts withdrawn, or cash machine locations used. 
I appreciate there are some anomalies here such as Mr M appears to have had no previous 
history of gambling  so the activity was out of character. And I accept some of the details 
(mobile number) provided to the merchant dont appear to match Mr Ms. The IP addresses 
used for the transactions has also been raised - but its important to bear in mind that IP 
location data isnt always reliable and so it has to be approached with caution. 
Overall, these anomalies are not enough to persuade me to reach a different conclusion. 
And whilst I acknowledge that there could be an explanation behind each of the points Ive 
discussed above, when they are all taken into consideration together and holistically, I dont 
believe the more likely explanation is that Mr Ms been the unwitting victim of a scam.
Barclays is not holding Mr M liable for the claim because he didnt sign and return the letter 
he says didnt receive. The process for a disputed transaction is to temporarily refund the 
sums whilst Barclays investigates the matter. Once it had investigated the matter it removed the credit as it deemed Mr M liable for the transactions. Barclays has admitted it didnt log 
the complaint as early as it should and has paid Mr M £50 for the inconvenience. I dont think 
this is unreasonable in the circumstances and wont be recommending Barclays do anything 
more in relation to this point. 
Overall, Ive concluded its more likely than not these were authorised payments. It would not 
be fair or reasonable for me to ask Barclays to do anything further as Im not satisfied Mr M 
has been a victim of fraud.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman