DRN-1912351
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr W took out the PPI around the same time as arranging the mortgage towards the end of 
1996, with the policy going live in March 1997. Neither Mr W nor Nationwide has any 
information about how the PPI was sold. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide no longer has any paperwork from the sale of the mortgage or PPI, which is not 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place, especially as the PPI ended in 2010 and 
the mortgage account was closed in 2014. This does however make the complaint more 
difficult to decide. In reaching my decision I have considered the information that we do 
have, as well as what I consider is most likely to have happened.
Mr W says he would only have taken the policy out because of fear and hes mentioned fear 
of not saying the right thing. But it is clear that Mr W has no particular recollection of the 
sale, which is also not surprising given how long ago it happened.
From what we know of Nationwides sales process for PPI at the time, the policy would 
normally have been presented as optional. I havent seen anything that would lead me to 
conclude that something different happened in this case. Ive thought about what Mr W has 
said but, on balance, I consider that Mr W would have been given a choice about buying the 
policy. It seems to me that Mr W decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he 
no longer remembers doing so.
Nationwide didnt advise Mr W to take out the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide Mr W with sufficient information for him to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether or not it was right for him.
Mr W says he would have received 12 months full sick pay  although, given the nature of 
his employer, it is more likely that he would have received six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay. Regardless of this, the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay 
and potentially for longer than Mr W would have received full pay for.Mr W has told us he had some savings, but having the policy would have allowed him to 
retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
Mr W has mentioned that he had some health insurance cover, but these covered a different 
risk than the PPI. So the PPI wasnt duplicating Mr Ws existing cover.
Overall, it seems to me that Mr W had a need for the PPI and could have benefitted from it if 
the circumstances had arisen where hed needed to make a claim on the policy.
I think that Mr W would have known something about the policy  that it would cover his 
mortgage repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont think hed have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all about it.
Mr W was able to provide a copy of the mortgage illustration dated 27 November 1996. This 
details the PPI as costing £19.56 per month. So I also think that Mr W would have known 
what hed be paying for the policy.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr W wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think he had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused Mr W to change his mind.
This means that Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But 
Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
When the policy was sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr W 
about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman