complaint
Mr P says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma, irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about a loan Satsuma provided to Mr P in October 2018 for £800, to be 
repaid over 12 months. 
Our adjudicator thought about Mr Ps complaint and felt Satsuma had lent to 
him responsibly, and so didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. Mr P disagreed so, the complaint 
was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
DRN-1528415 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
why I think Sunny checks were proportionate for Mr Ps loan
Mr Ps loan was for £800.00 and as per the loan agreement he needed to payback £132.80 
per month. Ive seen a record of the information Mr P provided when he completed his loan 
application. Mr P said he had a monthly income of £2580.00 and monthly expenses of 
£500.00. This means after deducting his regular monthly outgoings this means he was left 
with a disposable income of £2080.00. Satsuma also says it allowed for an additional buffer 
and safeguards in its assessment of affordability for Mr P. So, it looked like he had enough 
disposal income to make his payments under this loan agreement.
Mr P has provided evidence that he had defaulted on some payments on a credit card he 
had with another credit provider which was also under the Provident Personal Credit Limited 
umbrella. He also says he used this credit card for gambling transactions. Mr P has provided 
some bank statements to evidence his financial difficulties at the time and says he had 
outstanding debts with other short-term lenders which wouldve shown up on his credit 
report. Therefore, Mr P says that Satsuma shouldve been aware of his financial situation 
and shouldve deemed him unsafe to lend based on this evidence. Had Satsuma completed 
a full review of Mr Ps financial circumstances, I think this is something it ought to have 
uncovered. But, at this point in the lending relationship I think it was reasonable for Satsuma 
to have relied on what Mr P told it about his income and expenditure, and I think it was 
reasonable of Satsuma not to investigate Mr Ps circumstances any further. 
It is of course possible that had Mr P taken further lending then Satsuma, as a reasonable 
lender, ought to have carried out further, more in-depth checks at that point. But considering 
Mr P hadnt taken out any prior loans with Satsuma, I dont think it had yet reached the stage 
where it needed to carry out further checks, such as verifying this information or enquiring 
into his wider financial circumstances.
In any case, I have considered the evidence Mr P supplied about his financial history which 
he says ought to have led Satsuma to decide not to lend to him. But the information provided 
suggests that Mr P was having some difficulties with his finances in 2016, more than 1 year 
prior to his loan application with Satsuma. I havent seen any evidence or other information that Satsuma collected at the time of his 
loan application that shows its likely it was made aware of any financial problems Mr P 
mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate Mr Ps 
circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on the information it 
obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the affordability assessment Satsuma carried out 
for Mr Ps loan was proportionate. And I think its decision to lend Mr P in these 
circumstances was reasonable. So, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
In is response to our initial assessment on this complaint Mr P referred to another complaint 
he brought to our Service. However, each case is considered on its own merits, and I 
cannot comment on the findings made in another case in this decision. I appreciate that this 
decision will come as a disappointment for Mr P, but I want to assure him that Ive thought 
about and considered all the evidence that has been made available to me. 
final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman