DRN-2421714
The complaint
Mr G says Santander UK Plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr G took out PPI alongside a mortgage that started in July 1996. The policy protected his 
mortgage repayments if Mr G was unable to work as a result of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. Mr G paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Mr G says that he was never told anything about PPI or asked any questions about it and he 
didnt know about it being added to his mortgage. He says it wasnt explained that he had 
any choice and was made to feel that whatever was being done, sold or given to him was 
standard.
Our adjudicator felt this was a complaint we should uphold. Based on information Mr G told 
us about a medical condition hed had in 1996 our adjudicator thought Mr G probably wasnt 
covered for absence from work related to health problems resulting from this condition. And 
our adjudicator felt that if Santander had explained this to Mr G, then it was unlikely he 
wouldve wanted the PPI. 
And so she felt Mr G probably wouldnt have bought the policy if hed understood this at the 
time and that hed lost out as hed been paying for it.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly said that any pre-existing 
medical condition wouldve been discussed at the point of sale and formed part of the 
suitability check on the policy. It said the exclusions for pre-existing medical conditions 
wouldve also been discussed with Mr G and he wouldve been asked all the necessary 
questions and advised of the policy exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions. 
Santander also told us that it wasnt persuaded by the evidence Mr G had provided about his 
condition that this was enough to show that hed been diagnosed with it before the mortgage 
started.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Im currently thinking about not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr G to remember exactly what was discussed when he 
took out the policy as this was so long ago. This means that what he says isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. I have to base my decision on what I think is 
most likely given the available information and the wider circumstances.
I think Santander made Mr G aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI and that he 
chose to take it.
Although Mr G has told us that he didnt understand spoken or written English very well at the 
time, I dont think its likely that he wouldnt have understood he could choose if he wanted 
PPI.
I say this because Santander has given us a copy of the mortgage application from the time of 
sale. There are Yes and No tick boxes for PPI  so I think Mr G wouldve been aware that it 
was up to him to choose if he wanted to take out PPI. And he couldve ticked the no box if he 
hadnt wanted PPI. 
The Yes box is ticked on Mr Gs application next to where it says: Do you wish to take out 
Paymentcare? (this is what the business called the PPI it offered). 
And Mr G has signed the completed form to say he agreed with the information on the form. 
I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI  but I think it wouldve been reasonably 
clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mr G to say if he wanted to have PPI added on. 
Mr G wouldve also had to complete a separate application form to take out the PPI. This isnt 
any longer available  but thats unsurprising after all this time and it isnt a reason for me to 
uphold the complaint. I mention this because I think it means that Mr G would have had a 
further opportunity to ask about anything he didnt understand before signing the form if hed 
been unclear or uncertain about what he was signing up to. 
I think its likely that Mr G would've had to choose what sort of cover he wanted to have and 
say how long he wanted the benefit to run for  and how long hed be prepared to wait 
before making a claim.
Mr Gs mortgage was a big financial commitment and he was putting savings and money 
from his family towards buying his house. His home wouldve been at risk if his mortgage 
payments werent kept up to date. So, I can see why Mr G mightve felt PPI was useful to 
have at the time. 
I can completely understand why he mightve forgotten this now as the sale was a long time 
ago. But looking at all this information, on balance, I think its likely that Mr G was persuaded 
of the benefits that the policy offered him, he understood that he had a choice about having 
PPI and PPI was added to Mr Gs account when he chose to buy it. 
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr G so it needed to sell Mr G something that was 
suitable for him. And it needed to sufficiently highlight the significant details of the policy to 
Mr G. 
Santander doesnt any longer have a policy document from the exact date Mr G took out 
PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was the one in use just a few months later 
 so I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr G took out wouldve had 
similar terms and conditions.
The policy seems to have been right for Mr G based on what Ive seen of his circumstances 
at the time. Mr G was eligible for the policy. In the event of a successful accident or sickness 
claim the policy wouldve paid out a benefit for up to at least 12 months (possibly 24 months 
depending on what Mr G chose when he arranged the policy). 
Repeat claims were possible providing Mr G with long term cover. This means that the policy covered his mortgage repayments for longer than Mr G told us he 
wouldve received sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work  and it wouldve been paid 
in addition to any work benefits Mr G mightve got. 
I dont know if Mr G wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make a claim. 
It looks like he paid a substantial deposit when buying his home so he may well have used 
some of his existing savings towards keeping down the cost of his borrowing. 
And he mentioned that his family helped out financially as well. Having PPI is more 
dependable than relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems. 
So I think the policy couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if Mr G 
mightve had extra costs as a result of being off work as a result of illness or disability. 
The policy couldve also paid out for up to at least 12 months at a time if Mr G lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
For these reasons, I think PPI was suitable for him. 
Mr G doesnt remember the advisor highlighting or bringing to his attention anything about 
the PPI  including the specific policy exclusions concerning Mr Gs medical condition. 
Santander said it did explain everything Mr G needed to know about the policy. But given 
that theres disagreement about this, Ive approached this complaint on the basis that its 
possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
Mr G told us he had a condition that affected his health when he applied for his mortgage. 
He said that he used to take several days off from work due to this and hed been taking 
medication for it from the early 1990s onwards. Mr G has sent us a photograph of tablets he 
says he was taking at the time. Hes also sent us a doctors note confirming a prescription 
was issued for tablets to take for his condition - although this is dated the year after the 
policy started. 
I've thought very carefully about what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr G is sure that hes correct in saying he had this health 
condition before he took out this mortgage and the PPI. Hes told us this consistently 
throughout the complaint. And he and his family have gone to a lot of trouble to try and find 
some proof that hes right about this. 
I think Santander is right to say that nothing hes sent us shows that he was definitely 
diagnosed with his condition before he took out the mortgage in 1996. 
But, bearing in mind that within 14 months or so it looks like Mr G was seeing a doctor and 
being prescribed tablets for his condition, I think he could well already have been diagnosed 
with that condition before he took out the mortgage and the PPI. So Ive kept this in mind 
and approached the complaint on the basis that Mr G did, as he says, have a pre-existing 
condition when he took the policy out.
I think its clear from the likely policy wording that the policy would have excluded payments 
for a chronic condition and Mr Gs condition probably met these requirements. 
This means that Mr G wouldnt have been able to make a claim for any absence from work 
arising from his condition.  But, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr Gs condition had ever affected his ability to work 
before he arranged the PPI, beyond having to take a few days off at a time.
So, when taking out the PPI, I dont think Mr G would've had any reason to think his 
condition was likely to impact significantly on his work  or that he wouldve had any reason 
to expect that hed be likely to find himself off work ill as a result of his condition for long 
enough to need to claim on the policy.   
Its not clear how long Mr G would have to be off sick before he could claim under the 
disability part of the policy. But typically, someone off work as a result of illness needed to be 
off for at least 30 days based on what I know about policies like this. It was very unlikely hed 
be able to make a claim after just a few days away from work. 
And Mr G still had the benefit of other cover that the policy offered. So I dont think its likely 
that his medical condition made the policy unsuitable for him overall or that having clearer 
information about the circumstances when the policy wouldnt pay out wouldve made any 
difference to Mr Gs decision to take it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr G before he agreed to buy it. 
Santander says the cost of the policy was shown in the policy information sent to him and 
Mr G couldve queried it then if he decided this wasnt something he wanted to pay for. But, 
from what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened. Mr G hasnt suggested that he 
couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And he wouldve signed an instruction form to his 
bank to cover the cost. So it seems he was happy at the time to pay for PPI. 
Overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr G still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if hed been better informed as the 
policy gave him useful protection overall in his particular situation. 
This means, as things stand, Im not currently planning to tell Santander that it needs to do 
anything to put things right. 
I appreciate that what Ive said will be very disappointing for Mr G  particularly after the 
trouble hes taken to provide information in support of his complaint. But I very much hope 
that setting things out as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached this conclusion. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr G says I must understand that if he was ever told PPI was optional he would not have 
taken it or if he was asked about it he would not have taken it. He says he never consented 
to it being added to his mortgage account and says Santander assumed his consent and 
filled the paperwork themselves and never told him about the PPI. 
Mr G disputes that Santander sent him any paperwork. He relies on the fact that he paid for 
PPI beyond the mortgage end date and didnt claim when he couldve done as evidence that 
he was mis-sold the PPI. 
Mr G feels overall that my provisional decision is unfair and biased towards Santander. 
Santander hasnt commented further. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
I've taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision.
I appreciate that Mr G feels strongly about this complaint. But I must be impartial. Where 
theres only limited information I need to decide what I think is most likely. That means 
making some reasonable assumptions where necessary.
For the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision, what Mr G says isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. 
It wouldnt be unusual for the sales advisor to fill in the paperwork  and if that happened, it 
wouldnt be a reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I think its likely that Santander did do 
enough to make Mr G aware that PPI was optional and that it was added to his account 
when he signed the completed paperwork to take it out. 
Even if he didnt receive all the policy information Santander says it sent him, Mr G wouldve 
been able to see from his bank statements that he was paying for PPI each month. If the PPI 
wasnt something he wanted to pay for, he couldve taken this up with Santander or with the 
insurer  I havent seen anything to make me think he did that. And, as he paid for the policy 
monthly, if hed wanted to stop paying for it, he couldve cancelled the policy at any time. 
Mr G has told us that he kept paying for PPI, but didnt make a claim on the insurance, when 
he was unable to work. This information doesnt affect my decision. But he may wish to 
approach the insurer to see if it would be prepared to accept and consider a retrospective 
claim. If he does so and finds that he has concerns in this regard, then he should first tell the 
insurer why hes unhappy. And if hes unable to reach a satisfactory conclusion, he may be 
able to bring a complaint relating to the retrospective claim to this Service as a separate 
matter. 
The fact that Mr G says he kept paying for PPI beyond the mortgage end date doesnt mean 
that PPI must have been mis-sold when he took it out. And it isnt a reason for me to uphold 
his complaint.
Overall, I havent seen enough to be able to say that Mr G has lost out as a result of 
anything that Santander did wrong when it sold him this PPI. So this means that theres 
nothing Santander needs to do to put things right.
Although Mr G also mentioned some other things I've concentrated on dealing with the main 
points raised that affect the outcome of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G. But I do hope that setting things out as Ive done will help 
explain how Ive reached my decision.
 
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman