DRN-1352801
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very contacted her 
about arrears on her account and refused to accept her offer of payment.
What happened
In April 2019 Miss B contacted Very and explained that she was experiencing financial 
difficulties. She asked to arrange a payment plan.
Very sent Miss B an income and expenditure form which she returned in April 2019.
Following this, the customer arrears support team attempted to contact Miss B. Miss B 
complained to Very. She said she was being harassed about her account and she was 
seeking advice from a debt management company.
In June 2019 Miss B contacted Very and said she hadnt had a response to her income and 
expenditure form, or her payment offer. She said that her daughter was helping her with 
matter relating to her account.
Very tried to contact Miss B about the arrears on her account several times but she refused 
to speak to them and said that her daughter was dealing with the matter. Very said it didnt 
have the necessary form of authority from Miss Bs for her daughter to discuss the account.
In October 2019, Very spoke to Miss Bs daughter and advised her that Miss Bs offer of £10 
per month wasnt acceptable.
Miss B complained to this service. She wants Very to accept her offer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and said that although Very could have 
communicated with Miss Bs daughter sooner, it hadnt done anything wrong by not 
accepting the payment offer. The investigator said that Verys offer for poor customer service 
for failing to respond to the income and expenditure form was fair. This offer has since been 
increased to £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Miss B didnt agree. She said shed felt harassed by Very and that her online account had 
been blocked so she was unable to make any payments. She also said that interest hadnt 
been frozen on the account. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer experiences financial difficulty, Id expect a business to respond positively 
and sympathetically. In this case I can see that Very asked Miss B to complete an income 
and expenditure form and asked her to contact the arrears team. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Very to do this as it needed to assess Miss Bs financial circumstances to 
see whether any offer of payment was affordable and reasonable.
I appreciate that Miss B has said she felt harassed by the calls she received from Very. Very 
has explained that when an account falls into arrears, the customer is contacted by an 
automated dialling system which attempts a re-call if contact isnt made. Im aware that Miss 
B wasnt willing to discuss her account with Very, but I dont think Very acted unreasonably 
by trying to contact Miss B because at that time it hadnt been asked to deal with Miss Bs 
daughter. I havent seen anything to suggest that there was an excessive number of calls or 
that the calls were made at unreasonable times of day. However, I do think that Very could 
have communicated with Miss Bs daughter sooner than it did.
Although Very couldve provided better customer service by replying to the income and 
expenditure form, overall, I dont think this wouldve made a difference to the outcome. Very 
wasnt obliged to accept Miss Bs payment offer and having considered the offer I dont think 
it would have been in Miss Bs best interest for Very to accept it. The effect of Miss Bs offer 
is that it would take over 35 years to repay the debt. This would have a negative impact on 
Miss Bs credit file, because the minimum monthly payment (which is more than Miss Bs 
offer) would be marked as unpaid each month.
On balance, and given that Miss B is only abler to offer a nominal payment, I dont think it 
would have been reasonable for Very to accept the offer because of the detrimental impact 
this would have had on her.
Miss B has expressed concern that access to her account has been blocked and that she 
cant make any payments. Shes also unhappy that interest is continuing to accrue on the 
account.
Ive looked at the account and I can see that the balance hasnt increased since August 
2019. The statements show estimated interest but this isnt being added to the balance.
Im unable to say why Miss B cant access her online account. But I can see that shes made 
payments of £5 per month to the account so I dont think shes been prevented from making 
payments.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Very has acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
refusing to accept Miss Bs offer of payment because of the length of time it would take to 
repay the balance and the detrimental effect it would have on Miss Bs credit file. I think Very 
couldve provided better customer service but Im satisfied that the sum already offered by 
Very is fair and reasonable, so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman