DRN-4142637
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the length of time its taken for Nationwide Building Society to remove 
his now ex-partner from an account they held in joint names.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In January 2020 Mr H and his now ex-partner (Miss H) completed two separate requests 
for Miss H to be removed from the two joint, current accounts they held with Nationwide. 
One request was actioned promptly, but the other was held pending further checks. 
Miss H was eventually removed from the account at the end of March 2023, after both 
she and Mr H raised complaints with Nationwide.
Nationwide said it couldnt remove Miss H from the account in 2020 because she didnt 
respond when it asked her to. But it accepts it ought to have removed her, following 
further contact, in May 2022. It offered £250 compensation to Mr H to recognise the 
inconvenience caused. Mr H didnt think this was sufficient given that Nationwides 
mistake meant Miss H had retained access to the account, and to information she wasnt 
entitled to see, for longer than was necessary. He asked us to look into the complaint.
Our investigator thought Nationwide should increase the award to £500. But the society 
refused to do so and, in any event, Mr H said this wasnt enough. So the complaint came 
to me.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month and explained why I thought the outcome 
the investigator had reached was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I have 
reproduced my provisional findings below:
I would first say that Mr H and Miss H have both raised complaints about this matter and 
Nationwide dealt with those complaints separately. Mr H and Miss H are aware of, and have 
each consented to, the others complaint being brought to this service. But neither is now 
party to the others complaint. I think thats appropriate given the current situation. I have, 
nevertheless, considered the complaints in parallel as they share a lot of common evidence.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And, having done so, I think Nationwide 
ought to have removed Miss H from the joint account in January 2020. But I also think Mr H 
ought to have realised sooner that this hadnt been done and taken steps to sort this out. 
I note neither party agreed with the investigators recommendation, but I currently think an 
award of £500 compensation is fair and reasonable  Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr H and Miss H submitted a form to Nationwide in January 2020 
asking it to remove Miss H from their joint account. But Nationwide says she wasnt removed 
at that point because it needed to check she agreed to the request. The evidence suggests it 
wrote to Miss H at the address Nationwide held for her, asking her to get in touch, but she 
didnt do so. 
I dont dispute Nationwides suggestion that its entitled to carry out checks to verify this type 
of request when it deems such to be necessary. However, its also now become clear that 
Mr H and Miss H submitted a separate request for Miss H to be removed from their other 
joint current account on the same day. And that request was actioned promptly, without any 
additional checks. Nationwide hasnt provided me with a copy of that other form or explained 
why that request was actioned while the other one needed additional verification. Both 
accounts ought to have been linked to Miss Hs one customer profile. And, in the absence of 
supporting evidence, I can only conclude that Nationwide ought to have removed Miss H 
from both accounts in 2020.
As noted above, Miss H was eventually removed from the second account at the end of 
March 2023. Most recently Mr H has said he had unwanted and stressful communications 
with Miss H over the intervening, three-year period and feels he should be compensated for 
that. In addition, he wants compensation to recognise that Nationwide has unreasonably 
allowed Miss H access to the account, which he believes amounts to a data breach. Ive 
considered Mr Hs comments carefully, but Ive also taken the following into account. 
In his initial call to this service, in early 2023, Mr H indicated he raised his complaint with 
Nationwide in 2022 because it was at that point he realised Miss H was still party to the 
account. And that seems to tie in with the evidence Nationwide has provided which 
suggest he thought the removal had taken place in 2020. I also note Mr H told us he was 
still in touch with Miss H anyway because they co-own some dogs. Its, somewhat , 
difficult to understand exactly what happened given Mr Hs conflicting recollection of 
events.
Mr H suggests he has been in touch with Nationwide about this issue numerous times 
over the years and hes pointed to phone calls about other matters in which he mentions 
that the account was in his sole name. But Nationwides notes dont suggest he actually 
queried the fact Miss H was still party to the account until May 2022. And this was when 
they submitted a new account removal form.
Nationwide says Mr H would have been sent monthly emails directing him to view his 
account statements online. And, from what Ive seen, these statements show both Mr H 
and Miss Hs name at the top, indicating the account was still joint. Its not clear to me 
why this didnt prompt Mr H to take action sooner if he was so concerned about Miss H 
having access to the account. But I think its possible that this simply wasnt a priority at 
the time given the account was used for very few payments, and it only became a priority 
in May 2022 when Miss H was trying to get a mortgage.
Ive taken into account the role Miss H played in this situation. She was joint party to the 
account so jointly and equally liable for arranging to be removed.
Nationwide refused to increase its award, but I agree with the points made by the 
investigator. The £250 offer was made in the final response letter it issued in late-January 
2023. The society admits in that letter that it ought to have acted on the removal request it 
received in May 2022 because, at that point, it had everything it needed to honour the 
request. The society has since suggested that it didnt have everything it needed in May 
2022 and only removed Miss H from the account in March 2023 as an exception. But Im 
not persuaded by its conflicting arguments and supporting evidence. So its not clear to me 
why, in that January 2023 letter, it asked Mr H to submit a further form or why it then took 
until the end of March  a further two months to remove Miss H from the account. I think this likely compounded what was already a frustrating situation for Mr H. Ultimately it took from 
May 2022 to March 2023 to get Miss H removed from the account and I simply cant 
understand this delay. And Nationwide has been on notice since May 2022 that Mr H was 
unhappy with the situation and did not want Miss H to be able to view the account.
Mr H accepted my provisional findings, but Nationwide did not. It reiterated that its internal 
process relating to account holder removal allows it to write to its customer to authenticate 
them and it followed that process in relation to the account in question.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Nationwides reference to its internal process and I accept that, on occasion, it may 
need to authenticate its customers. But, given the inconvenience and delays this can cause, 
I would expect there to be a specific reason that warrants that authentication such as a 
signature mis-match on the form or some other concerns about the veracity of the request. 
Nationwide has still not explained why it needed to authenticate Mrs H and its decision to do 
so on one of the joint accounts is entirely at odds with the decision not to do so, at the same 
time, on the other joint account. 
In all the circumstances, and for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and 
reproduce above, I think an award of £500 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay £500 compensation to Mr H.
It should do so within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that Mr H accepts my final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman