DRN-3827575
The complaint
Mr B complains that Sabre Insurance Company Limited (Sabre) declined his claim following 
the theft of his car, under his motor insurance policy. 
Mr B is represented by a solicitor in his complaint. For ease I will refer to Mr B throughout my 
decision.
What happened
Mr Bs car was stolen from in front of his house. He made a claim to Sabre and sent CCTV 
footage of him parking the car and of the theft. Sabre declined the claim as it says Mr B had 
left his car unsecured. 
Sabre says the CCTV footage confirms the car wasnt locked at the time it was stolen. It 
says this made it easy to steal as there was no locking system or immobiliser for the thief to 
override. 
Mr B says this was a pre-planned theft. Regardless of whether the car was unlocked he says 
the thief will still have gained access to the vehicle and been able to drive it away. He 
doesnt think Sabres decision is fair and refers to the Insurance Act 2015 in support of his 
claim. Sabre didnt change its decline decision and so Mr B referred his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says the CCTV footage supported Sabres 
view that the car wasnt locked. She thought the forensic report the business provided, 
demonstrated the vehicle was susceptible to theft if its left unlocked. Because of this she 
thought Sabre had behaved fairly in declining the claim in line with its policy terms. 
Mr B disagreed. He asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him. I 
understand he has suffered a significant financial loss as a result of the theft. But Ill explain 
why I think my decision is fair. 
Its for a customer to show they suffered an insured loss (fire, theft etc.). If they are able to 
do so then, generally speaking, the insurer should pay the claim unless it can reasonably 
rely on a policy exclusion not to.
Ive read Mr Bs policy schedule and terms. This covers him in the event of theft. There is no 
dispute around this point.  
Sabre has relied on the following policy exclusion to decline Mr Bs claim:
EXCEPTIONS TO SECTIONS A & B
What we do NOT cover
We shall not be liable for:
j) loss of or damage to your vehicle or anything contained therein arising from theft or 
attempted theft whilst the vehicle is left unattended or temporarily unoccupied and you are 
not in a position to intervene if:
i. your vehicle has not been secured by means of the door and boot locks. 
Ive seen the statement Mr B provided about the theft of his car. In this he describes how the 
lights flash, there is a sound as the locks engage and the wing mirrors fold inwards when the 
car is locked. The forensic report provided by Sabre mirrors this description of what happens 
when the car is locked. 
Ive looked at the CCTV footage Mr B supplied. This shows him parking his car at the front of 
his house. He gets out, leaves a door open and also opens the boot. He leaves the frame for 
a short period and then returns to remove the contents of the boot. Mr B then closes the boot 
and door. He subsequently returns to his car and removes a bag from the rear seat. This is 
the final time he returns to the car before going inside his house. I cant see that he locked 
the car. No lights flash and the mirrors appear in the outward position. 
The later CCTV footage shows the thief walking up to Mr Bs car. He has a ruck sack on his 
back, which he takes off as he approaches the vehicle. He then opens the car door and gets 
in. No lights flash to show the car door needed to be unlocked. About 30 seconds later the 
brake lights come on, and a further ten seconds later the car is driven away.  
The forensic report says its not possible for Mr Bs car to be unlocked using the relay theft 
technique, as he suggests. It says this generation of proximity fob uses, an ultrawide 
frequency band and time to target tech to eliminate relay theft. It says there are no reports 
of this system being broken. However, it does say this type of vehicle can be stolen with 
ease if it isnt locked. It says a dongle can be used to interact with the on-board diagnostic 
(OBD) port and activate the ignition within seconds. The report explains that the device 
needed to bypass the cars immobiliser can be bought legally for around £15,000. It says the 
method likely used by the thief in this case, given the time taken, was to code an emergency 
fob, which was then used to start the engine. 
I note Mr Bs representative says a device can be bought for around £25 that can be used to 
unlock a car. I havent seen evidence to support this. 
I acknowledge Mr Bs view that even if his vehicle had been locked it would still have been 
taken. He says the theft was pre-planned and the perpetrators wouldve been able to gain 
access to his car and drive it away. 
However, the forensic report indicates this wouldnt have been likely. Based on the CCTV 
footage Mr B left his car unlocked. Its because of this this that the thieves were able to take 
it.  
I note the suggestion that the thieves couldve blocked the signal from Mr Bs fob when he 
tried to lock the car. This was queried with the author of the forensic report  but it was 
pointed out that the locking mechanism had been activated by Mr B, using the key fob, earlier in the CCTV footage.   
Sabres view is that this was an opportunistic theft, as there were other cars, of the same 
make, parked outside Mr Bs home, which appeared to be locked with mirrors folded back  
that werent targeted. As Mr Bs car wasnt locked, it thinks this is why it was singled out. 
Ive thought about Mr Bs reference to section 11 of the Insurance Act (2015). In essence 
this says if a loss occurs, as a result of non-compliance with a policy term, Sabre cant rely 
on this to exclude its liability, if that non-compliance couldnt have increased the risk of the 
loss. 
Sabres terms exclude liability where a loss occurs due to vehicle not being secured by 
means of the door and boot locks. Im satisfied from viewing the CCTV footage and having 
read the forensic report, that the car was unlocked when it was stolen. If it was locked its 
unlikely to have been taken by the method indicated here. So, I think this shows it was Mr 
Bs non-compliance with the policy terms that allowed the car to be taken. For these reasons 
I dont think section 11 of the Act applies in the way he suggests. 
Having considered all of this, although Im sympathetic to Mr B for the loss hes incurred, I 
dont think Sabre treated him unfairly by relying in its policy terms and declining his claim. 
So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman