DRN-2432609
The complaint
Mr A complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) registered a 
default against his credit file unfairly.
What happened
Mr A contacted Likely Loans to let them know he was in financial difficulty. Arrangements 
were put in place for Mr A to clear the arrears on his loan account in May 2019 and June 
2019 but as the agreed repayments werent made, Likely Loans issued a notice of default to 
Mr A on 8 July 2019.
Mr A got in touch with Likely Loans on 15 July to explain his financial situation. He said hed 
only be able to make a payment of £50 towards the arrears but wouldnt be able to clear the 
arrears until 1 August, which is when he was next due to be paid. 
The adviser accepted Mr As offer to make a partial payment and said that as Mr A had 
called to discuss his circumstances, the new arrangement would stop the default being 
registered against his credit file in July, which is what the notice of default said would happen 
if the payment wasnt made on time. The adviser also told Mr A hed need to either call 
Likely Loans to make the remaining payment of £56.50 on 1 August, or hed need to get in 
contact by that date to let them know if he couldnt make that payment. Otherwise, the 
default would be applied to Mr As credit file after 1 August.
As Likely Loans didnt hear from Mr A on 1 August, it registered a default on his credit file on 
7 August and notification was sent of the default to the credit reference agency on 
1 September. Mr A then called Likely Loans on 4 September to pay the balance of the loan 
and the loan account was closed.
Mr A says that as he was in contact with Likely Loans during his period of financial difficulty, 
the default was wrongfully applied to his credit file. He raised a complaint with Likely Loans 
but was told the default had been registered correctly. Mr A remained unhappy with Likely 
Loans response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Likely Loans had acted unfairly. 
Mr A disagreed with our investigators assessment and so the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to a recording of the phone conversation Mr A had with Likely Loans on 15 July 
2019. The adviser clearly explains to Mr A during this call that Mr A would need to make a 
payment by 1 August or contact Likely Loans by that date in order to prevent a default being 
registered against him. 
Mr A has said he contacted Likely Loans in August 2019 and that Likely Loans lied to him 
about the default. But I havent seen any evidence Mr A got in touch with Likely Loans in 
August 2019. Theres nothing in the contact notes Likely Loans has made available to us, 
which might suggest Mr A contacted them after the 15 July phone call and before the default 
was applied. There is only evidence of Mr A calling Likely Loans again in September.
So I have to consider whether Likely Loans acted unfairly by registering the default after not 
hearing from Mr A in August. And having considered all the information, I dont think it did 
anything wrong. I say this because under guidance from the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) a default can be registered when a customer is at least three months behind 
with their payments. And I can see that Mr A was more than three months behind with his 
payments by the time the default notice was issued. The ICO also says a default can be 
applied if an agreed arrangement is broken, which is what happened here. 
Ive also noted that after two consecutive payments were missed, Likely Loans sent Mr A a 
notice of sums in arrears letter in April 2019, which wed expect it to do before issuing a 
default notice. So Im satisfied Likely Loans applied the default fairly.
I dont agree that the adviser or Likely Loans lied to Mr A. I think the adviser was trying to be 
helpful and sympathetic of Mr As circumstances during the 15 July call. The adviser asks 
Mr A if hes sure he can afford to make the £50 payment as he would not want Mr A to fall 
short and be unable to pay priority bills due to making the payment. He also points Mr A to 
free debt advice and mentions organisations which may be able to help him. 
While I do sympathise considerably with Mr A in the circumstances  and I know the default 
has impacted him and will continue to do so, Im afraid I cant say Likely Loans has acted 
unreasonably here. I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr A, but I hope 
Ive explained clearly why I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman