DRN-3438908
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy with the service shes received from American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) (AmEx) surrounding the updating of the terms of her credit account.
What happened
Ms R has a credit account which AmEx administer in partnership with an international airline 
company. One of the benefits of the account is that the holder can earn a Companion 
Voucher (CV) with the airline if they accrue enough spend on the account on a yearly 
basis. This CV enables a companion of the account holder to obtain a free seat on a flight on 
which the account holder is travelling, subject to availability.
Ms R received notice from AmEx that the terms of her credit account were changing, 
including the terms surrounding CVs. Ms R contacted AmEx and asked whether the new 
terms continued to mean that any companion using a CV would be eligible to be seated in 
the same class as the account holder. 
The AmEx agent that Ms R spoke with confirmed that this would continue to be the case, but 
Ms R later discovered that this wasnt correct and that the new terms meant that any 
companion of Ms R using a CV would be seated in economy class, regardless of the class of 
ticket used on the flight by Ms R herself. Ms R wasnt happy about this, so she raised a 
complaint.
AmEx looked at Ms Rs complaint. They acknowledged that Ms R had been given the wrong 
information when she spoke with their agent, and they apologised to Ms R for this and made 
a payment of £50 to compensate Ms R for any trouble or upset caused.
Ms R didnt feel that AmExs response went far enough, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response that 
AmEx had already provided to Ms Rs complaint, including the £50 payment of 
compensation, already represented a fair and reasonable response to what had taken place.
Ms R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its clear that AmEx sent a notice to Ms R advising of the changes to the 
account terms on 3 June 2021, and that this notice included that the changes would come 
into effect as of 1 September 2021.
The changes to CVs included that the amount of qualifying minimum spend on the account 
would be reduced from £20,000 to £12,000 on a yearly basis, but that it would no longer be 
the case that companions using a CV would be seated in the same class as the account 
holder, and that from 1 September 2021 onwards, all companions flying on a CV would be 
seated in economy class, availability permitting.
It's also clear that Ms R called AmEx to query the changing terms on 5 August 2021, and 
that she was given incorrect information by AmExs agent on that call. Specifically, Ms R was 
incorrectly told that following the implementation of the new terms on 1 September 2021 that 
any companion using a CV to fly with her would be seated in the same class of seat as she 
was travelling in personally, for instance in business class.
I can appreciate how Ms R might be frustrated at having been given the incorrect 
information. But I dont feel that because of this, AmEx should provide Ms R with a means 
for a travelling companion to be seated alongside her in business class as she would like.
This is because the terms for the CVs have been changed, such that this is no longer 
possible, which means that regardless of whether Ms R had or hadnt been given incorrect 
information on the telephone on 5 August 2021 it would never have been possible for any 
person travelling with her using a CV to be seated in business class with her under the 
changed terms. 
This means that the issue here isnt that Ms Rs companion may be asked to travel in an 
incorrect class of seating (which following the change in terms will always be in economy 
class) but that Ms R was given incorrect information when speaking with an AmEx agent.
AmEx dont dispute that their agent gave incorrect information to Ms R, and theyve 
apologised to Ms R for this and made a compensation payment of £50 to her. This seems 
fair to me, and I can confirm that a £50 compensation payment for the provision of incorrect 
information on the telephone is commensurate with what I would have instructed AmEx to 
pay, had they not already done so.
All of which means that Im satisfied that the response that AmEx have issued to Ms Rs 
complaint here, including the payment of £50 compensation, already represents a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. And it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or instructing AmEx to take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Ms R was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman