DRN-2317443
The complaint
Mr F complains about the support and service he was given by Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) in relation to his car finance. 
He says BPF shouldve done more when he asked for help due to financial difficulties 
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr F acquired a car using a conditional sale agreement provided by BPF. The 
agreement was for £4,199 over 60 months, with repayments of £92.87 per month.
Unfortunately, Mr F says he lost work due to the COVID-19 pandemic and in March 2020 he 
got in touch with BPF to ask for assistance. He said he wanted to have a freeze period or 
said BPF should lower the interest rate on the agreement or refund him some repayments.
BPF responded and gave Mr F details of its Financial Assistance Team. It asked Mr F to 
contact it by phone, but explained it was receiving a high volume of calls. Mr F was unhappy 
with this and said he wouldnt call anyone. BPF explained it would try to get someone to call 
him, but it couldnt confirm if this would be possible. It provided him with a link to its website 
for more information. And it explained it wouldnt lower the interest rate on Mr Fs agreement 
but said the amount of interest on the agreement wouldnt increase if he took a payment 
holiday.
Mr F was unhappy with this and complained to BPF. It issued a final response in March 
2020. This explained it was not upholding Mr Fs complaint. BPF apologised Mr F didnt 
receive a call back from its Financial Assistance Team, but said it didnt have capacity to 
make outbound calls at the time due to the pandemic. BPF asked Mr F to call the team 
himself and explained if it agreed a payment holiday he would not be charged any more 
interest, and this wouldnt impact his credit file.
Mr F says he spent a long time calling BPF but the phone wasnt answered. In April 2020 he 
contacted BPF by email. BPF sent him a link to their website which it explained had an 
online form to request a payment holiday. Mr F said he didnt want a payment holiday and he 
wanted a lower rate of interest. BPF again explained the rate of interest wouldnt be 
changed.
Mr F complained to BPF again. He said he wasnt happy about not getting a call back. He 
said no one would pick up on the phone line when he rang. He said he thought BPF should 
renegotiate his interest rate. And he said he was unhappy with the service provided by a 
particular staff member and that the CEO didnt personally respond to him. 
BPF issued a second final response in May 2020. It apologised and said due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic its offshore call centres were closed which resulted in long delays for 
customers on the phone. It said it was unable to make outbound calls due to how busy it 
was. But, it explained Mr F had been sent a link to apply for a payment holiday, which had by 
that point been completed and approved. 
BPF explained Mr F didnt have to make payments in April, May or June 2020 and that no 
additional interest would be charged. It again said it wouldnt reduce the amount of interest 
on Mr Fs agreement. And it said it thought its staff members had been professional.
Mr F was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator issued 
an opinion and explained she wasnt upholding his complaint. She said, in summary, that 
she didnt think BPF had been unreasonable by not reducing the interest due on the 
agreement. She said she thought BPF had provided Mr F with an appropriate level of 
support and service given the circumstances.
Mr F was unhappy with this, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr F complains about the administration of a conditional sale agreement. Providing and 
maintaining consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we 
can consider Mr Fs complaint about BPF.
What I need to consider in this case is whether BPF provided Mr F with an appropriate level 
of service and if the support it provided to Mr F when he told it about financial difficulty was 
fair and reasonable under the circumstances. Ill first consider the service he received from 
BPF.
Mr F is unhappy BPF didnt call him back when he requested it and thinks the service 
provided by an individual fell below the standard he could expect. When Mr F initially 
contacted BPF, the COVID-19 pandemic was beginning and, understandably, BPF said it 
was receiving a much higher volume of calls and contact than normal. And it said due to the 
pandemic, it had to change its working practices including shutting down call centres and 
having less staff available.
The pandemic affected businesses in many different ways and was an unprecedented event. 
Its understandable that BPF did not have capacity to make outbound calls from its 
department to help customers in financial difficulty at the time. I can see BPF explained to 
Mr F that while it would request a call be made to him, this might not be possible. 
I think BPF shouldve been clearer about this and been upfront about the fact Mr F would not 
be called back. However, it did give Mr F details of how to get in touch with the right 
department himself. So, I dont think this had a significant impact on Mr F and under the 
circumstances I dont think BPF needs to take any further action here. 
Ive reviewed the email contact between Mr F and the staff member he is unhappy with and 
Im satisfied the service provided was professional and of an appropriate standard.
Mr F also says he spent a long time trying to get hold of BPF on the phone. Im sorry to hear 
Mr F was kept waiting and at times wasnt able to speak to BPF when he wanted. But, given 
the likely volume of calls BPF was receiving, this isnt surprising. I need to consider that BPF 
was dealing with an unprecedented event at the time. So, I dont think it needs to take any 
further action on this point.Mr F has also raised that he is unhappy the CEO of BPF didnt personally contact him when 
he emailed. In a normal situation I would not expect the CEO to be able to reply to all 
customers direct contact, and this is especially true during a pandemic. I can see the CEOs 
office responded to Mr F on the CEOs behalf, which I think is reasonable.
Ill now consider if the level of support given to Mr F was fair and reasonable.
When Mr F initially contacted BPF to ask for help, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
hadnt yet given businesses specific guidance to follow in relation to COVID-19. But, BPF 
still needed to follow existing guidance such as that in the Consumer Credit sourcebook 
(CONC).
CONC 7.3.4 states:
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration
I can see when Mr F first asked for help BPF explained how to get in touch with the right 
department to discuss his options for a payment holiday. And it sent him a link to get further 
details on its website. I appreciate Mr F wasnt happy to call BPF and expected help 
immediately. But, given the situation at the time, I think BPFs response to Mr Fs request for 
help was reasonable under the circumstances given Mr F wasnt prepared to phone the 
department hed been directed to.
On 24 April 2020 the FCA published guidance Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: 
temporary guidance for firms. This came into effect on 27 April 2020 and explained:
Where a customer is already experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary 
payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to 
receive a payment deferral, a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 
months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the 
customers interests to do so.
When Mr F asked BPF for a payment holiday, I can see this was approved for three months. 
BPF explained the loan term would be extended by three months, that no additional interest 
would be charged and that this would not impact Mr Fs credit profile. Thinking about this, Im 
satisfied BPF acted fairly and in line with the FCAs guidance.
Mr F says the agreement shouldve been renegotiated to lower the interest rate or he 
shouldve been given a refund. Ive thought very carefully about this. But, Im not persuaded 
BPF shouldve reduced the interest rate for the remainder of the term, or given him money 
back, in response to short term financial difficulty. Thinking about everything, Im satisfied 
the payment deferral was a reasonable response to Mr Fs situation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman