DRN-2818241
The complaint
Ms B has complained about how Soteria Insurance Limited has handled her claim under her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 2 February 2020 Ms B had a collision with her ex-partner. Ms B has explained that she 
was in an abusive relationship with him and as a result of her deciding to leave him, he 
purposefully hit her car from behind, forcing her into a bollard. Ms B also had her child in the 
car at the time. She sustained serious injuries and as a result of the trauma she 
experienced, she suffered hearing damage and now has to wear a hearing aid.
Ms B has said her ex-partner was imprisoned after the incident but prior to him serving a 
custodial sentence he cancelled his insurance with Soteria. She feels this was done to 
ensure he wouldnt be liable for the incident.
Following the accident, as a result of Ms B reporting the incident to the police, she was 
seriously assaulted by her ex-partner which has amplified the distress and trauma of the 
circumstances.
Ms Bs ex-partner, who was also insured by Soteria, is currently denying any liability for his 
part in the incident. However, Soteria has given Ms B the market value of her car as it was 
classified as a total loss. She had to pay an £800 excess when making her claim. But liability 
for the incident is still ongoing.
Ms B is very unhappy with how Soteria have handled her claim and doesnt feel she has 
been treated fairly. She feels there were delays paying the car finance company, issues 
paying for her car to be stored, and her hire car agreement ending earlier than it should 
have. Ms B also says Soteria following its safeguarding policy had a severe impact on her.
She would like Soteria to admit her ex-partner was liable and to resolve the matter. This is 
so she can put it behind her as its currently affecting her mental health. Ms B is very upset 
about this situation and said she has tried to take her own life due to the trauma she has 
experienced. 
Soteria investigated Ms Bs complaint, and overall it was satisfied it hadnt done anything 
wrong in the way it had handled her claim. But it did acknowledge a small delay in paying Ms 
Bs finance provider for her car and offered £75 by way of an apology for the delay it caused. 
Ms B was unhappy with Soterias response, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Bs complaint, but overall she felt Soteria hadnt acted 
unfairly and so she didnt recommend it do anything further. Ms B was very unhappy with the 
investigators opinion and asked for the case to be passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. 
I would like to express that I was genuinely saddened to read what Ms B told our service 
about her history and how this impacted her. I hope after reading this decision, Ms B can 
understand why, having considered everything, I am not upholding her complaint despite my 
empathy for her circumstances.
Market value 
The policy terms state:
 "The insurer will decide either to; 
 Repair the damage themselves; or 
 Pay to have the damage repaired; or 
 Pay to replace what is lost or damaged if this is more cost effective than repairing it; or 
 Pay you an amount equal to loss or damage 
This means that Soteria get to choose if the car should be repaired or declared a total loss. 
In this case Ms Bs car was declared a total loss. Its not my role to decide if a car should be 
a total loss, but rather to make sure that Soteria has acted fairly in making that decision. 
Insurers generally base this decision on cost. Normally they will choose to repair the car if 
the repair costs are likely to be below a certain percentage of the value of that car. Its widely 
accepted that they dont pay up to the full value because estimates dont always take 
account of all costs, and once work begins, there can often be damage that hasnt been 
seen  and in turn was unaccounted for.
Having reviewed the independent engineers report, I am satisfied there was extensive 
damage listed to the vehicle. The report went on to saythe extent of the damage rendered 
the vehicle immobile and repairs wouldnt be cost effective. As such, the independent 
engineer deemed Ms Bs car to be a total loss. Having considered the market value and the 
estimated repairs costs, alongside the extensive damage, I think Soteria acted fairly when it 
declared Ms Bs car as a total loss.
I appreciate Ms B didnt want to pay the £800 excess under the policy. But I feel I should 
explain here, that an excess is an uninsured loss and isn't covered under her policy. What 
this means is, if Ms B makes any claim, she would always be liable for the excess under the 
policy. Ms B would be entitled to claim it back in full, from the third party provided a claim is 
settled on a non-fault basis. I am satisfied this is outlined in Ms Bs policy and so I cant say 
Soteria has acted unfairly.
Liability
I appreciate the outstanding issue of liability has been ongoing for quite some time. And 
given the circumstances of this complaint, I appreciate how frustrating and upsetting it must 
be for Ms B. I accept that having this issue resolved would mean Ms B could try and move 
forward, and how important that is for her. But I'd like to explain my role here, and its not to 
decide who is liable for the claim. However, what I can decide is whether Soteria is treating 
Ms B fairly and in line with her policy terms and conditions. 
Ms Bs policy, like every other motor insurance policy I've seen, allows Soteria to take over 
and conduct the defence settlement of any claim. But it must be fair to Ms B in doing so. In 
this case Soteria has said that in order to decide liability it needs to review the police report which was requested by the third party. As of yet, Soteria hasnt received the report, and so 
it currently doesnt think it can fairly reach a conclusion on liability. 
I have reviewed the case notes and can see that Ms Bs version of event differs considerably 
to the other drivers. While Im sure there is no reason for Soteria to disbelieve Ms B, I dont 
think its unreasonable for Soteria to want to review the report before making a decision on 
liability. In addition to this, having reviewed the case notes, Im also satisfied Soteria has 
proactively pursued this report and is not at fault for causing the delay. 
Hire car
Ms B was provided with a hire car, outside of the terms and conditions of her policy, by a 
third-party company. This company intended to recover costs from the other driver because 
Ms B had made it aware she wasnt responsible for the incident. The third-party company 
contacted Soteria to discuss the claim. However, as liability hadnt yet been established 
Soteria couldnt confirm that the third-party to the incident was liable. As such the company 
providing the hire car told Ms B it had to end their agreement. I appreciate that this meant 
Ms B was without a car. However, I cant hold Soteria responsible for this. As a responsible 
insurer it has a duty to disclose accurate information. And as liability hadnt been established 
at that point, I dont think Soteria did anything wrong providing that information when the 
third-party company enquired. Ultimately, it was the third-party companys decision to cease 
the rental agreement, so I cant hold Soteria responsible for this decision.
Storage
Under Ms Bs policy there is cover for reasonable charges for the storage of her vehicle. But 
the policy terms, under what is not covered, state:
any storage charges unless you tell the insurer about them and unless the insurer agrees in 
writing to pay them. 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that prior to the car storage commencing, Soteria 
agreed to cover storage charges or that storage was arranged by them. As such, 
I appreciate its concerns when deciding whether or not to cover these costs for Ms B as it 
didnt consent to it. Having reviewed the contact notes, it is apparent that Soteria were willing 
to cover the costs, but due to the invoice being more than it felt was reasonable, it was 
negotiating charges for some time. Eventually, a figure was agreed, between the storage 
company and Soteria, and it settled the costs for Ms B. I accept that the uncertainty of 
whether or not the storage charges would be covered and the time it took to resolve this 
matter would have exasperated Ms Bs circumstances, but Soteria was never obliged to 
cover these costs. As such I cant reasonably say it acted unfairly. 
Correspondence with Ms Bs father
The contact notes provided show that a call took place between Ms B and Soteria, and 
during that call Ms B gave consent for her father to discuss her claim due to his experience 
in the trade. So, Soteria updated the system to show that Mr B was a representative on the 
case. From that point on, Soteria corresponded with both Ms B and her father. Ms B is 
unhappy about this. However, I dont think Soteria acted unreasonably by communicating 
with Ms Bs father as it had consent to do so. However, I can see that Soteria has now 
updated its system to show that it can only discuss the claim with Ms B. That was the right 
thing to do given the concerns Ms B raised.
Safeguarding Ms B is unhappy that after her corresponding with Soteria, it contacted the police and social 
services. This impacted Ms B significantly during an already traumatic time. Ms B has said, 
in her own correspondence to this service, that she tried to take her own life and how she 
was struggling to deal with events that occurred. I can also see in the contact notes and 
correspondence with Soteria comments of this nature were mentioned. Because of this, a 
safeguarding issue was raised. Its not unusual for businesses to have safeguarding 
procedures in place. And given what Ms B had told Soteria, it had a duty of care to ensure it 
acted in accordance with its safeguarding procedure  in the interest of her safety. Our 
service cant tell a business if it should have such procedures in place, or what they should 
look like. All we can do is determine whether such procedures where correctly applied in the 
circumstances. Ive seen nothing to suggest Soteria acted outside the scope of its 
safeguarding procedures, as such I cant say it did anything wrong. 
Paying the car finance company 
I can see that Soteria made a commercial decision to pay the settlement for Ms B. Ms Bs 
car was on finance, therefore, it is the finance company who Soteria send the settlement to. 
However, from the system notes provided I can see there was a delay in settling the 
balance. The process began on 12 June 2020, and Soteria said it should be sorted by 22 
June 2020. But it actually took three days longer than what Soteria had promised. In 
recognition of this delay it gave Ms B £75, which I feel is reasonable given the short delay 
and the impact it had. Therefore, I wont be asking them to do anything more about this 
aspect of the complaint.
Overall, I appreciate this has been a very difficult time for Ms B. Dealing with any financial 
complaint while experiencing the events Ms B went through would be a very distressing and 
exasperating situation. But I have to consider if Soteria has acted unfairly and I cant 
reasonably conclude that it did. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman