DRN-2673618
The complaint
The trustees of a Self-Invested Personal Pension plan (SIPP) complain that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc took a large amount of time to process a loan application made by them 
and in the end didnt make a correct offer. One of the trustees, Mr R says that this resulted in 
considerable inconvenience to him and financial loss to the SIPP.
What happened
In 2017 the trustees decided to purchase a property owned by Mr Rs company and rent it 
back to the company. The plan was to encash the investments within the SIPP and use the 
proceeds to buy the property. However there was still a shortfall. So they approached HSBC 
for a loan of £40,000. It appears that the initial request was made to HSBC in mid-2017 but it 
wasnt until February 2018 HSBC made a formal loan offer.  
Mr R says that during this period he had to contact HSBC many times in order to progress 
the loan application. He says that HSBC asked for personal guarantee from him which was 
unnecessary and that further delayed things. When HSBC eventually offered the loan in 
February 2018 it wasnt correctly made. When this was pointed to HSBC it said that the 
application process had to be restarted and that it would take another three to four months. 
Mr R says that at this point the trustees lost patience with HSBC and decided to seek 
funding elsewhere. He says that they had to start afresh an alternative arrangement and as 
a result the purchase of the property didnt complete until October 2018.
HSBC says that loan to a SIPP could be a complicated product to arrange and take 
additional time to complete as it had to ensure it adheres to various rules and regulations 
surrounding the product. However it acknowledged that there had been delays on its part 
and offered £1,000 by way of compensation. This wasnt acceptable to the trustees. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. In summary, I said:
HSBC had caused avoidable delays in processing the application and that partly 
contributed to the overall delay in the SIPP purchasing the property from Rs company.
It is difficult to say precisely what ought to have been the time taken by HSBC to offer the 
loan and therefore what was excessive. It all depended on individual circumstances. This 
being a loan application under SIPP, there could be additional formalities which could 
take longer time. Also there had been some unavoidable delays due to the staff 
sickness.  Nevertheless, eight months to process the application was too long in the 
circumstances. 
Looking at what had happened in this case, it is reasonable to say that the whole 
process could have been completed about three months sooner. So HSBC should 
compensate the SIPP for three months (net) income lost, because of this delay. 
The expected rental income from the property was around £1,200 a month.  However, 
the situation was that the SIPP needed some sort of external funding to cover the 
shortfall and that would have resulted in some cost to it. 
Though Mr R eventually resorted to funding the shortfall from his own company, in order 
to arrive at fair compensation in relation to this complaint, an allowance should be made 
for some notional cost to the SIPP. It could be seen from HSBCs offer letter that the 
monthly repayment cost of the loan was around £700. Taking that as the notional cost to 
the SIPP, HSBC should pay £1,500 (£500 x 3) to the SIPP as fair compensation due to 
the delays it caused leading up to the loan offer.
When HSBC eventually made the loan offer in February 2018, the borrowers name was 
incorrectly stated in the offer letter. Specifically, there was a mistake in how the SIPP 
was named. 
At that point the trustees decided not to pursue the matter further with HSBC and to look 
for alternative arrangement through Mr Rs company. It is understandable why the 
trustees lost patience with HSBC following the error. However, in my view the error could 
have been easily rectified and the offer letter reissued with the correct name quickly. So 
it wouldnt be fair to ask HSBC to compensate the trust for subsequent delays due to the 
trustees deciding to seek alternative arrangements.  
It is clear to see that HSBC caused distress and inconvenience to Mr R, as a trustee. He 
had to chase HSBC several times. That HSBC asked him for a personal guarantee in 
relation to the SIPP loan also caused him unnecessary distress.  It could also be seen 
that he was frustrated that the SIPP was holding a sizeable cash deposit without being 
able to invest as intended. Therefore a payment of £500 to Mr R is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. I remain of the view 
that the complaint should be upheld. Thus: 
HSBC caused delays in the period leading up to the offer in February 2018 and it should 
pay £1,500 towards for those delays;
HSBC isnt responsible for any loss incurred by the SIPP following Mr Rs decision not to 
proceed with the loan and 
HSBC should pay £500 to Mr R for the distress and inconvenience caused to him in his 
capacity as the trustee.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and in full and final settlement of it, 
HSBC should: 
pay £1,500 to the SIPP and 
pay £500 to Mr RFor avoidance of doubt, the above redress is instead of HSBCs offer of £1,000 and not in 
addition to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Trustees of the 
SIPP to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman