DRN-2760682
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that Quickly Finance trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging their 
success fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim. She said shed only asked them 
to carry out a free PPI check.
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs G asked FTR to check whether shed been mis-sold PPI by any of her 
lenders. Mrs G said she didnt hear anything further from FTR and presumed they hadnt 
found any PPI. So, when she was told by one of her lenders Ill call H that she was due 
compensation for mis-sold PPI she was delighted. But was surprised when she was asked to 
pay a fee by FTR for her successful claim as she understood shed only asked them to carry 
out a free PPI check. 
Mrs G also said shed told FTR she didnt want to use their services, and when she asked for 
sight of the agreement said the signature wasnt hers. She complained to FTR.
FTR said Mrs G had signed their letter of authority (LoA) for them to check whether shed 
been mis-sold PPI. And in signing the LoA shed agreed to their terms and conditions. They 
said theyd no record of Mrs G cancelling her agreement with them before October 2020, 
after the 14 day cooling off period had passed. And after Mrs G had been told her PPI claim 
was successful. FTR said H had auto converted Mrs Gs claim which meant theyd based 
their investigation on the LoA FTR had submitted. As Mrs Gs claim was successful FTR 
said their fee was justified.
Mrs G wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Mrs G had authorised FTR to act on her behalf. And that they were 
acting fairly and reasonably in asking for their success fee. 
Mrs G didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my 
decision on what I think most likely happened. 
FTR feel strongly that Mrs G had agreed to use their services and that it was because of 
their enquiry her claim with was successful. I can also understand Mrs Gs frustration as she 
doesnt think shed authorised FTR to act on her behalf. 
In making my decision I need to determine whether Mrs G had authorised FTR to act on her 
behalf. And if she had, whether they knew she no longer wanted them to work for her. And to 
see whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with her.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for Mrs Gs lenders, 
including H in August 2019,  a few days before the deadline for making such claims. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mrs G has given this 
service. And she doesnt dispute she completed the on line application but that she 
understood it was only an agreement for a free PPI check.
So, Ive looked at the web journey process. FTR  has shown the screens Mrs G would have 
gone through. The screen shows a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
 *Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will 
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24% 
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims  as per the Terms of Engagement. 
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to the 
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens asked for information from Mrs G about her personal details and lenders. 
On completing the application, FTR has said a LoA would be generated, populated with this 
information. and this could only be submitted with a signature. There wasnt a requirement to 
add a date. I know Mrs G disputes she signed the LoA, but it isnt our role to consider 
whether a signature is genuine or not, that would be for a criminal court to decide. I must 
base my decision on whether I think its more likely than not Mrs G signed the LoA. The 
details provided in the agreement were specific to Mrs G and she would be the beneficiary of 
any compensation paid for a successful claim. Mrs G has said she asked FTR to check 
whether shed any PPI. And FTR has shown an audit trail of the application and that the 
signature was digitally added on their website. So, Ive no reason to doubt Mrs G signed the 
LoA.
As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the 
LoA Mrs G had agreed to them. FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
With the introduction of a deadline for making PPI claims being introduced lenders started 
looking into PPI claims for their customers requiring only a data subject access request. And 
this is what happened here, as H accepted FTRs request sent in August 2019 as them 
submitting a claim  auto conversion. And if the LoA hadnt been submitted before the end 
of the deadline in August 2019, Mrs G would have lost the opportunity to make any PPI 
claim.
Mrs G said she didnt hear anything from FTR after her application. But I can see in May 
2020, H  updated Mrs G about her claim and makes a clear reference to FTR. It also advises Mrs G that if she is unhappy with the claims management company, in this case 
FTR, she should contact them directly. The update was also sent to FTR.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
You may cancel Your Claimis) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the
Letter of Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received 
a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
The terms and conditions give details of the various channels Mrs G could have used to 
cancel the agreement. I cant see that Mrs G attempted to cancel her agreement before 
October 2020, and this was more than 14 days after she signed the LoA in August 2019.
Ive also considered the date the cooling off period started, not from the date the LoA was 
signed, but from when Mrs G would have known a claim had been submitted to her lender 
by FTR  May 2020. By October 2020, Mrs G would still have cancelled the agreement 
outside of the cooling off period. Mrs G received an offer of compensation from H in July 
2020. So, I dont think FTR would have known Mrs G didnt want to use their services before 
her claim was successful.
So, Im satisfied Mrs G authorised FTR to act on her behalf to pursue her claim with H. And 
by submitting her claim before the August 2019 deadline H investigated her claim for mis- 
sold PPI. I can see that H referenced FTR when they told both Mrs G and FTR that her 
claim was successful. I think this shows H saw FTR  as Mrs Gs representative in making 
her PPI claims. 
The agreement Mrs G had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did.
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Mrs Gs claim was 
successful.
I know Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision. But I think shed authorised FTR to act 
on her behalf and she hadnt cancelled that agreement before her claim was successful. So, 
I dont think FTR has acted unfairly or unreasonably in asking her to pay their success fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021. 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman