DRN-3747179
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Estate Capital Financial Management 
Limited (ECF) to transfer deferred benefits from his defined benefit (DB) pension with 
British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Js employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
In September 2017, Mr J contacted ECF and asked for advice on his BSPS pension. He was 
advised to transfer the benefits to a Self-Invested Personal Pension which he did in May 
2018.
Mr J complained to ECF in 2021 about the advice he received. He thought it was flawed and 
that by relying on it he had suffered significant financial losses.
ECF rejected the complaint. One of our investigators considered the complaint and found Mr 
J had received unsuitable advice. He recommended that ECF should compensate Mr J 
following the regulators guidance which was in place at the time -Finalised Guidance (FG) 
17/9- and pay him £300 for any distress and inconvenience caused.
ECF disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for the complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. However, in December 2022 as a gesture of goodwill they 
carried out a loss calculation. They assumed in the calculations that Mr J would have ended 
up in the PPF and retired at 57. The calculation showed Mr J had not suffered a financial 
loss. They offered him a gesture of goodwill payment to settle the complaint.
Mr J rejected this offer. His representatives said calculations should have been based on Mr 
J choosing the BSPS2 with an assumed retirement age of 65. 
ECF subsequently asked Mr Js representatives for information to undertake an updated 
calculation in line with new rules and guidance for DB transfer redress calculations which 
came into effect on 1 April 2023 and which are set out in the FCAs handbook at DISP App 
4: https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter)
Mr J said he wanted loss calculations to be based on previous guidance set out in FG17/9 
as this was more favourable in his particular circumstances as future charges werent 
capped at a set level and the assumptions for him being married at retirement were also 
more favourable for him. He said if this wasnt agreed he wanted an ombudsmans decision. 
The investigator explained that the current rules and guidance (DISP APP4) should be used 
by ECF. He also pointed out that in previous communications with Mr Js representatives it 
had been made clear that if settlement had not been reached by the time the new rules had 
come into effect, we would expect calculations to be carried out in line with the new rules.
In October 2023 ECF received the necessary information from Mr J to carry out a loss 
calculation which they did in line with DISP APP4 and using the FCA BSPS calculator. The 
calculation shows that Mr Js current pension has a shortfall of £9,571. If paid to him in cash, 
it would be subject to a notional tax reduction of 15% which would bring the redress amount 
to £8,135. In addition to that ECF offered to pay £300 for any distress and inconvenience 
caused as per the investigators recommendation. So the total offer amount was £8,435.
Our investigator reviewed the offer and found the calculations were carried out in line what 
we would expect and that the offer was fair.
Mr J rejected the offer. He still believes calculations should be carried out in line with FG17/9 
using assumptions that were in place when the investigator issued their initial view in June 
2022.
Mr J says the unsuitable advice he was given has affected him financially and mentally. He 
says arguments about this matter were part of the reason why he and his partner split up 
and this has now resulted in court action over child custody. He says he is worried about the 
fact his pension has lost money and that he has to keep enduring the ups and down of the 
investments markets rather than having a safe pension. Mr J also thinks its unfair that 
colleagues have received differing amounts in compensation depending on when their 
calculation was carried out. He says hes stressed and genuinely worried about his pension.
As no agreement could be reached between the parties, the case was passed to me for an 
ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ECF has carried out a loss calculation and has offered to pay compensation, so I dont see 
the need to address the advice Mr J received in full detail. However, for completeness I 
would like to say that I agree with the investigator that the advice Mr J received wasnt in his 
best interest.
Based on what Ive seen, it was unlikely Mr J would be able to improve on his DB pension 
benefits, particularly if he retired earlier than 65 which was what the advice was based on. 
Different death benefits, flexibility and an enhanced transfer value didnt justify a transfer 
here in my view. Mr J was 38 at the time of the advice and had a defined contribution plan 
through his employer with generous employer and employee contributions which could have 
afforded him some flexibility and different death benefits if required. I cant see that there 
was a particular need for Mr J to give up safeguarded benefits so many years before 
retirement when his plans would have been uncertain.
I think suitable advice would have been to move to the BSPS2. I appreciate the new scheme 
wasnt fully guaranteed at the time of the advice. However, there was a good chance that it 
would go ahead. And even if it didnt and Mr J had ended up in the PPF, his overall benefits would still have been competitive, particularly if he did decide to retire early.
Ill now focus in this decision on the matter that is still in dispute which is the redress. The 
aim is to put Mr J back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had he 
moved to the BSPS2. Unfortunately reinstatement into the BSPS2 is not possible. So an 
alternative way of redress is required. 
ECF carried out a calculation using a specific BSPS calculator provided by the FCA which is 
what I would expect them to do in the circumstances. They used the BSPS2 and a 
retirement age of 65 in their assumptions for the calculations.
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a  
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure an annuity which provides the 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either the BSPS2 or the PPF (as 
uplifted to reflect the buy-out), had they not transferred out.
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
now to match the DB benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the redress amount 
owed to the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers 
pension arrangement, then no redress is due.
Both the investigator and I have checked the calculations and Im satisfied they have been 
carried out in line with the current rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension 
transfer advice, as detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their 
handbook in DISP App 4. This is the same method that is used for all other DB transfer 
cases where reinstatement into the scheme isnt possible.
Mr J wants ECF to use outdated guidance and assumptions as he thinks this would lead to 
higher redress. However, I dont consider this reasonable. FCA rules are clear that the most 
up to date assumptions should be used for calculations. Redress calculations are designed 
to work out if Mr J has suffered a financial loss and if so, how much he needs in his pension 
now to be able to buy an annuity at 65 which replicates his DB benefits in retirement. 
Rise in interest rates mean that consumers now need less money in their pension to buy an 
equivalent annuity, so the value of DB benefits has decreased. This might impact on the 
level of redress being paid. However it still puts Mr J in the position he would be in now if he 
had not transferred his DB pension. And it is the same redress method that is used for 
colleagues who are currently part of the FCAs BSPS redress scheme.
ECF was entitled to disagree with the investigators view and ask for an ombudsmans 
decision. And they were also able to make goodwill settlement offers at any stage in the 
process, just like Mr J was entitled to reject them. I appreciate Mr J is frustrated that the 
settlement of his complaint has taken a long time. However, Im satisfied that the redress 
has now been calculated correctly and is fair and reasonable and puts him as much as 
possible in the position he would have been in if he had remained in the BSPS.
I can look at the distress and inconvenience that the advice to transfer his DB benefits 
caused Mr J. Im sorry to hear about the family issues he has faced which I understand will 
be stressful and upsetting. However, this situation always would have been difficult and I 
dont think its likely the unsuitable advice he received would have been the main cause for 
this. So it would be disproportionate to hold ECF responsible for the stress this situation is 
causing him.
However, I also believe him when he says he is worried about the volatility of investments he 
is now exposed to. I have considered that Mr J is in a long term investment and he is still many years from possible retirement. And I've taken into account that Mr J is professionally 
represented and received an investigator's view in his favour last year. So he ought to have 
been reassured that if there was a shortfall in his pension he would likely be compensated. 
But based on what I have seen I think Mr J generally has a fairly cautious attitude to risk. He 
might have agreed to a balanced risk profile during the advice process but he moved to a 
more cautious portfolio in 2018 not long after the transfer and he was concerned when his 
pension dropped during Covid in 2020. I can see he monitored his pension, took an active 
interest and raised queries with ECF over the years.  His pension has also been more 
volatile over the last two years since he has moved to a different adviser and pension plan 
which is likely due to him being invested heavily in equities. 
I acknowledge that the increased exposure to equities and volatility over the past two years 
in Mr Js investments isnt ECFs fault. I suggest Mr J should discuss his risk profile, attitude 
to volatility and the higher charges he is paying with his new adviser.
However, Mr J wouldnt be exposed to investment risk at all if he had remained in the DB 
scheme which is why they are held responsible for all of his financial losses. Their unsuitable 
advice has led Mr J to be in a position where he has been worried about his pension and Im 
satisfied this had a considerable impact on him. 
So in the circumstances I think an award for the distress caused should be raised to £500.
Putting things right
The calculations that ECF have carried out are fair and reasonable and dont need to be 
repeated on a different basis or with different assumptions. However, if Mr J accepts this 
decision, ECF should add the payment date to the current calculations so that additional 
compensation is added for the time between valuation and payment. The resulting loss 
amount should be paid to Mr J together with £500 for the distress ECFs unsuitable advice 
has caused him. Payment should be made without delay after acceptance of this decision.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint and require Estate Capital Financial Management Limited to follow 
the instructions as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman