DRN-2777414
The complaint
Mr D has complained about his home insurer Aviva Insurance Limited in respect of a claim 
made to it after he suffered a burst pipe at his home.
  
What happened
A leak occurred at Mr Ds home on 19 August 2019. Mr D contacted Aviva but little 
happened to start with. Aviva had offer to re-house the family but Mr D had said they 
preferred to stay home. When work began Mr D found it to be disorganised and felt damage 
was being caused to his home. Aviva said it was necessary to strip out parts of the home in 
order to dry it  but it would reinstate everything when repairs were completed. 
In November 2019 Aviva issued a final response to a complaint it had received from Mr D 
regarding its claim handling to date. Aviva acknowledged there had been delays and poor 
communication. Aviva noted that Mr D had turned down the option of being re-housed but 
this had likely occurred due to not being given correct information by it. Although it noted 
Mr D still preferred to stay at home. Aviva said in that case it would pay Mr D £1,000 as 
compensation for the disruption suffered so far (it later confirmed that this was £75 a week 
for the ten weeks the family had stayed in the disrupted home and £250 for upset). It said it 
would maintain the £75 a week for the family moving forwards. 
The claim continued to progress. In January 2020 Avivas drying contractor noted it was 
having difficulty drying one wall of a shower room. It had concerns that there was a damp 
issue at the property unrelated to the burst pipe. It completed investigations and felt there 
might be issues with water getting in at roof level. Aviva told Mr D that he would have to 
have the problem fixed before it completed the reinstatement work. As an alternative it said it 
would cash settle for the insured repairs to the shower room and complete the rest of the 
work. Mr D was not happy with this, he felt Aviva was making things up to avoid completing 
the work. 
Aviva said it would cash settle for all of the work. It asked Mr D to provide a quote. Around 
this time he complained to us. When we spoke to Aviva in June 2020 it said it would ask its 
contractor to provide a settlement figure.
Mr D obtained his own report from a plumber. The plumber said that he had found the wall to 
be dry and whilst hed water tested the roof, no wetness had appeared on the wall of the 
shower room. Aviva said this report was not persuasive as the plumber hadnt detailed how 
hed tested the wall. It noted that a visual inspection, as implied had been undertaken, would 
not have identified moisture trapped within the wall which its specialist drying contractor had 
found using specialist equipment. 
Mr D was unhappy. Aviva said it would look to settle the whole claim in cash. Mr D provided 
an estimate for work totalling £35,300, plus VAT. Aviva shared its costed schedule of works 
which totalled £12,265.29, plus VAT. Following further discussions Aviva agreed to add 
various sums to that amount.
In October 2020 Aviva said that, including those additions and VAT, its final offer was 
£16,157.08. It said it would pay this to Mr D. Along with £1,900; being the original £1,000 it 
had offered plus £900, at £75 per week for twelve weeks for the period November 2019 to 
February 2020 (when it had told Mr D he needed to complete work). With the additions, and 
whilst he was still disappointed with the total, Mr D said he was minded to accept Avivas 
settlement figure. He was also still unhappy that it wouldnt pay to replace the cooker. 
Our investigator obtained an agreement for Aviva for us to look at all of Mr Ds concerns, 
even those that had arisen after its final response had been issued. Our investigator felt 
Avivas offer was fair and reasonable given the work it had said it was liable for and that 
Mr Ds quote was less persuasive because it was less detailed. She also noted some things 
included on it that didnt seem to be damaged on account of the claim or Avivas work  such 
as the cooker. She felt the total of £1,900 compensation which Aviva had offered was fair 
and in line with other awards made by this service.
 
Aviva paid the monies to Mr D but he remained unhappy. The complaint was passed to me 
to decide. I felt Aviva, in the end, could only reasonably offer cash to settle the claim. But 
I thought Aviva should pay more in respect of disturbance allowance (a higher rate over a 
longer period), and more compensation (a further £750). My findings were:
settling in cash
Aviva found the external wall in the shower room wouldnt dry. It carried out investigations 
and felt there was likely a problem with the roof. Mr D doesnt think this is the case. Hes 
provided a report from a plumber which says the wall is dry and the roof is sound. Ive 
considered the evidence in this respect. Im satisfied that Aviva has likely identified an issue 
with the property which is unrelated to its insured work and reasonably prevents it from 
completing that.
I see that Aviva was still prepared to complete other work at the property, and even to return 
to finish reinstating the shower room once the issue allowing water ingress was fixed. I think 
that was fair. And when Mr D wasnt prepared to accept any of its options, it said it would 
settle in cash. I think that was reasonable.
 
However, whilst Aviva said it would settle in cash, and for a time was waiting for Mr D to 
return quotes, it didnt chase him on this or look to put an offer together for him based on 
what it knew of the outstanding repairs. Not until our investigator asked it to. That meant 
Mr D was left without any way of reinstating his home for many months. I think Aviva, 
reasonably, should have put the cash settlement offer forward in mid-March 2020. In saying 
that I note from its files that Aviva had asked its contractor at the beginning of March for the 
details necessary to allow it to do this. The settlement was finally sent to Mr D at the end of 
October 2020.
amount of reinstatement settlement
Avivas final settlement figure was £16,157.08, including VAT. Mr and Mrs Ds quote was for 
£35,300 plus VAT. I find Avivas schedule and costings to be more detailed and, therefore, 
more persuasive. There are also items included in Mr Ds quote that dont seem to be related 
to the insured works  such as a replacement bathroom suite. I note Aviva has paid VAT up 
front too which insurers often wont do. Mr D has seen the repair scope. He had some 
concerns that somethings werent included, and Aviva responded to those, including 
additional items which then generated the final settlement amount. The only thing I can see 
that remains in dispute is the cooker. Mr D says Avivas contractors damaged it. Ive seen 
photos but Im not persuaded that they show any damage. Im not going to make Aviva pay 
Mr D to replace their cooker.  That said, I noted above that Aviva should have made settlement to Mr D in mid-March 
2020, but it didnt do so until the end of October 2020. I think Aviva should, therefore, pay 
8% simple interest* on the settlement sum from 15 March 2020 until 31 October 2020. 
disturbance allowance
Aviva felt Mr D and his family should move into alternative accommodation. But Mr D didnt 
want to. Aviva said it would pay a disturbance allowance so the family could stay at home. 
According to Aviva it has paid £75 a week for the family of three adults and one child, for the 
period 5 September 2019  14 February 2020. I think it needs to pay £35 a day for the 
period 5 September 2019  30 November 2020. Ill explain. 
The incident occurred on 19 August 2020. Avivas file suggests drying and stripping began 
around 5 September 2019.  I think until all this happened the disruption to the family was 
minimal  the house was a little damp but they had all the usual services. I think its 
reasonable that the period the allowance is paid from starts at this date.
The end date is when Aviva put its offer to Mr D about how the repairs could be progressed, 
given the problem that had been found in the shower room. Ending the period on this date is 
not reasonable. The house was still in a disrupted state and Aviva didnt make a settlement 
payment to Mr D until 31 October 2020. Without funds for the insured works, Mr D and his 
family were left living in what Aviva has accepted (because it urged them to move into 
alternative accommodation) was an uninhabitable home.
 
Aviva hasnt advised how long it thinks its works would have taken. I see that the works 
related to a number of rooms, there was a fair amount of re-plastering and re-tiling to be 
done to be done, also the floor in one room had been taken up. I think, at a conservative 
estimate the insured work couldve been completed within a month. So I think the end of the 
disturbance allowance period should be 30 November 2020.
I also think the amount needs revising. It isnt unusual for a policyholder to want to stay in 
their home. And when they do an insurer will normally pay a daily disturbance allowance of 
£10 per adult and £5 per child. That would have been £35 a day for Mr Ds family. I havent 
seen anything here that justifies Aviva only offering a substantially reduced allowance 
(£75/week rather than £35/day). 
Im going to require Aviva to make an additional payment in respect of disturbance 
allowance. It will have to calculate this based on £35 a day, from 5 September 2019 until 
30 November 2020. From that total it can deduct the sum it has already paid for this of 
£1,650. This type of allowance is a form of compensation, so Aviva wont have to add 
interest to its payment.
 
compensation for distress and inconvenience
Aviva accepts there were some delays and communication issues at the start of the claim. 
I think thats correct. But Im not persuaded the strip-out works were poorly managed in the 
way suggested by Mr D. I know he felt the methods employed were unprofessional, but 
I think it stands to reason that Aviva would want to have had the property stripped back as 
quickly as possible. And Aviva was always liable for reinstating it. Aviva offered (and later 
paid) £250 for the upset caused until mid-November 2019. I think that was reasonable. 
I dont think Aviva did anything wrong or caused any delays between November 2019 and 
February 2020. I think it handled matters adequately at this time and the reinstatement was 
naturally delayed due to the further water ingress found in the shower room. And Ive explained above that Ive found Avivas offer made in February to move the claim forwards 
was also reasonable. 
But, as also explained above, I think Aviva let Mr D down after this point by not managing 
the situation. This left Mr D living in the uninhabitable, disrupted home, with no way to 
reinstate it. I think this was distressing and inconvenient for him. I think Aviva should pay an 
additional £750 compensation.
Aviva said it had no objections to my decision. Mr D responded, making a number of points.  
In summary he said:
Its unclear how the sum of circa £16,000 to reinstate the home can be correct when the 
costs to strip and dry the property have come to over £13,000.
Aviva had stripped parts of the fourth bedroom that werent damaged.
The cooker was damaged and Aviva left the family without an alarm in the kitchen.
Aviva had insisted on putting scaffolding up, this must have cost a lot but was really 
unnecessary.
Theres been a lot of stress and pressure and theyve lived in awful conditions.
Mr D concluded by stating it was for me to decide if compensation of £1,900 (the total 
offered by Aviva for disturbance and upset in its final responses) was sufficient given what 
itd had put them through.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The figure Mr D has shown on his insurance documents are likely what the claim total was at 
the time those documents were produced. An insurer must record the total cost of claims, 
and the cost to strip and dry a property, along with the cost of any necessary investigations 
and payments like disturbance allowance, can all add up. The sum recorded on the 
insurance documents doesnt mean the settlement figure is likely wrong. 
Aviva needed to complete certain investigations and it needed to strip parts of the property 
either for rectifying damage and/or to aid drying. Whilst I know Mr D has concerns about 
most of the work Aviva did, and the cost of that, Im not persuaded it did anything wrong. In 
the process disruption was caused, whilst thats unfortunate it was unavoidable. Im not 
persuaded the cooker was damaged by Aviva.
I accept that Mr D and his family lived in an uninhabitable home. I understand that this was 
very difficult for them. But for a time they did so at their own choice, although I also found 
provisionally that Aviva did cause them some upset that could, and should, have been 
avoided. To be clear, I didnt say provisionally that the £1,900 Aviva had previously offered 
was sufficient to make up for Mr Ds extra living costs and to compensate for the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused. On the contrary, I said Aviva should pay more for extra 
costs (referred to by me as a disturbance allowance) and more compensation (Aviva had 
paid £250, as part of the £1,900, and I felt it should pay a total of £1,000). Im satisfied by 
what I said in these respects.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, Im not persuaded to change it. 
My provisional findings now form part of the findings of this, my final decision.  
Putting things rightI require Aviva to pay Mr D:
An amount equivalent to 8% simple interest* on the sum of £16,157.08, applied from 
15 March 2020 until 31 October 2020.
An amount equivalent to the sum of £35 a day for the period 5 September 2019 until 
30 November 2020, less the £1,650 already paid.
A further £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience (making the total for this 
paid by Aviva of £1,000).
* If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest due to Mr and Mrs D, it should tell them how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman