DRN-2180679
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the valuation Admiral Insurance Company Limited placed on her car 
after a claim made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Ps was damaged in an accident and Admiral said it was beyond economical repair. 
Admiral said it offered Mrs P the highest valuation provided for her car by the motor trade 
guides we use. This was £7,350 less the policy excess. But Mrs P said this didnt take into 
account that her car was a limited edition model. She thought it was worth about £5,000 
more. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She asked Admiral to 
explain where it had taken into account the cars limited edition status in its valuation, but it 
didnt explain this. So the investigator did her own research and found limited edition models 
of Mrs Ps car for sale at higher prices than Admirals offer. She thought Admiral should offer 
Mrs P an average of these, £8,370. 
Mrs P agreed. But Admiral said it had offered Mrs P the highest valuation provided by the 
trade guides and it had found this valuation using our approach.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see Admiral used the motor trade guides to assess the pre-accident value of Mrs Ps 
car. Mrs P complained that this didnt take into account the car being a limited edition model. 
She said there were only 450 made and they were more desirable. But Admiral said that it 
had checked the guides using the cars registration number and its optional extras didnt add 
any value. 
I think this is in keeping with our usual approach to car valuations. And we usually find that 
the value of optional extras depreciates over time and often they wont add any value at all. 
But I would still expect Admiral to have considered if there was any increase in value due to 
the car being a limited edition model. It could, for example, have obtained an engineers or 
experts views or it could have researched similar cars for sale. I cant see that it did this. So 
I cant see that Admiral took into account the car being a limited edition and so made a 
reasonable valuation of Mrs Ps car.
Our investigator did her own research and found two cars, also limited editions, for sale. One 
had a higher mileage and one a lower mileage than Mrs Ps car. So she thought an average 
of the two prices would be a fair valuation for Mrs Ps car. 
In the absence of other evidence, I think this is a fair and reasonable way to take into 
account the car being a limited edition model.
Putting things right
And so I think Admiral hasnt valued Mrs Ps car fairly and I think it should increase this to 
£8,370, less the policy excess. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman