DRN-2534891
The complaint
Miss H complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) was irresponsible to 
lend to her.
What happened
Miss H took out a £150 loan with Lending Stream on 5 September 2018. It was due to be 
repaid with 24 weekly instalments of £9.50, finishing on 21 February 2019.
Miss H says Lending Stream did not adequately check her credit file before it lent to her. She 
says she had several other short-term loans at the time and was in severe financial 
hardship. She says she exaggerated her income and Lending Stream did not ask for her pay 
slips as evidence. Miss H adds that she ended up borrowing more money and losing her 
house as a consequence of her debt problems.
Lending Stream says it asked Miss H about her income and expenditure. It says it compared 
the figures with statistical averages and adjusted them if required. Lending Stream says the 
checks showed Miss H had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
Lending Stream had carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available 
information to indicate Miss H was struggling to manage her money. 
Miss H responded to say that if Lending Stream had checked her credit file it wouldve seen 
she had several short-term loans. She says this caused her to get into financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. Such as:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated lending 
may signal the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive considered all the evidence in this context and what this means for Miss Hs complaint.
When Miss H applied for the Lending Stream loan, I can see it asked her about her income 
and expenditure. Miss H said her monthly income was £1,116, with expenditure of £325, 
although Lending Streams checks caused it to increase the expenditure to £408. Im 
satisfied, in the circumstances, that these checks were proportionate. I say that because:
This was Miss Hs first loan with Lending Stream;
The highest monthly repayment due was less than 5% of Miss Hs declared income;
Miss H said she spent £25 per month on credit;
Lending Stream calculated her disposable income to be around £700 per month.
At this stage in the lending I consider Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the information 
from Miss H as there was nothing to indicate her financial circumstances were significantly 
different. I acknowledge Miss H says she had multiple short-term loans, which made the loan 
unaffordable, but I dont find it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to carry out 
the level of financial review that would have been required to show this additional borrowing.
Finally, I understand the loan has now been sold to a third party. Lending Stream still has an 
obligation to treat Miss H fairly if she is having difficulty repaying the loan.
In summary, I find that Lending Streams checks were proportionate and there was nothing 
in the available information to indicate that it acted irresponsibly by approving the loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman