DRN-3880479
The complaint
Mrs F says Lloyds Bank PLC acted unlawfully when it refused to allow her to open a new 
account. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F visited one of the banks branches on 16 February 2022 for a meeting to 
review Mrs Fs existing accounts. She wanted to open a new account to ensure she was 
earning as much interest as possible. Mrs F suffers with dementia and during the meeting 
Lloyds became concerned she may not remember opening the account and so decided not 
to proceed at that time. 
Mrs F complained to Lloyds saying it had shown unlawful discrimination and failed to make 
reasonable adjustments which was very distressing for her. In its final response letter Lloyds 
said it could not proceed as it was unable to confirm Mrs F had the capacity to make the 
decision, or be sure the instructions to open the account were hers. It then set out a number 
of options that could be put in place to help manage Mrs Fs accounts going forward. 
Mrs F maintains the banks decision was discriminatory and in breach of the Equality Act 
2010. She wants Lloyds to be fined for its misconduct and seeks compensation in the region 
of £30,000, in addition to compensation for lost interest on her savings of around £6,400. 
She also wants the banks relevant policies to be changed, saying they will be detrimentally 
impacting many other customers. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Fs complaint in part. He explained that he had been able to 
listen to the recording of the meeting at the branch. And he set out in full what had happened 
during the interview. I note neither party disputed that his description was an accurate 
representation of the meeting so I wont repeat it in full here, rather I will set out a summary.
 
During the interview Mr F said he would need to enter Mrs Fs PIN for her as she had 
dementia. The branch staff explained as they now knew this, to meet their Duty of Care, they 
had to be sure that Mrs F fully understood everything. They also suggested Mr F
obtain Third Party access or Power of Attorney. Mr F commented that getting Mrs F to 
remember anything was virtually impossible.
The branch staff offered to place a Support Need note on Mrs Fs accounts, she was initially 
unsure about this but then agreed. The branch also arranged for her to receive a signature 
debit card to avoid any ongoing PIN issues.
At this point, the staff member conducting the interview said she didnt want to continue with 
the account opening as she was concerned Mrs F wouldnt remember opening the account. 
There was further discussion about Mr F obtaining power of attorney. The branch staff 
member reiterated to Mr and Mrs F they werent comfortable continuing with the account 
opening interview due to Mrs Fs dementia. The branch manager joined the meeting and 
confirmed the interview would not continue based on the information shared about Mrs Fs 
mental health and her role in the meeting so far. Mr F was unhappy with this decision, 
communication subsequently broke down between the parties and Mr and Mrs F left the 
branch.   
The investigator found that Lloyds had largely followed its guidance for customers with 
mental capacity limitations. He noted Mrs Fs involvement in the meeting was very limited, 
and said the bank was right to be concerned about this, but he did think Lloyds could have 
tried more to interact with her directly. Given how the meeting went, he thought it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to suggest Mr F obtained a Power of Attorney, although he accepted 
the guidelines dont say this is mandatory in such circumstances, just that it may help. He felt 
the bank should have better reflected this nuance. He said whilst it had offered solutions in 
its final response letter it ought to have done more at the time of the meeting to understand 
the impact of Mrs Fs condition and possible solutions. And as it had not done so, or 
managed its decision as sensitively as it could have, it recommended Lloyds pay Mrs F £200 
compensation for the distress she suffered. 
He also explained that only the courts can decide if a business has acted unlawfully and only 
the regulator can review the banks systems, processes and policies.
Lloyds agreed with this assessment. Mrs F did not. In summary, she said the level of 
compensation needed further consideration. Mr F referenced a similar case hed been 
involved in that went through the courts and resulted in a £30,000 payment and the 
imposition of a series of £1,000 unless orders. Mrs F said Lloyds must retrain its staff to 
properly understand and apply their duty of care. Its policies that discriminate against people 
with disabilities must be changed. And the losses Mrs F had suffered by being unable to 
open the new account with its higher interest rate must be taken into account. She has also 
had no access to her pension or disability benefits since this happened as she is not 
comfortable visiting the branches any more. And she should have the right to ask Mr F to 
speak on her behalf.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought carefully about all of Mr and Mrs Fs comments. And I mean no discourtesy 
by this, but in keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service - and as our 
rules allow - I will focus here on the issues I find to be material to the outcome of Mrs Fs 
complaint.
I also want to confirm the scope of this decision. Mrs F has raised concerns with policy 
issues and requested the bank be fined. The powers we have allow us to look at the 
circumstances of an individual case, to decide if the bank has made an error and if so, how it 
must put things right. We can award compensation to cover financial losses and to recognise 
distress and inconvenience. We cannot make punitive awards. It is the role of the regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority, to review systems, processes and policies across the 
industry - and where necessary to fine banks for systemic failings.
I am upholding Mrs Fs complaint in part. To reach this conclusion I have listened to the 
recording of the meeting and reviewed extracts from Lloyds internal policy for supporting 
customers with mental capacity limitations. I have done this to check that it applied its 
internal guidelines in a fair and consistent way. The extracts I have seen set out that 
customers with mental capacity limitations may be able to act independently and may not 
need delegated access. However, they also say the bank must make sure the customer can 
understand the decisions they are making.
From listening to the recording, I think Lloyds concerns were reasonable  Mr F led the conversation, he confirmed Mrs F remembers very little now, and Mrs F sounded uncertain 
and confused at times. So, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to conclude it could not be 
certain from that interaction that Mrs F had the mental capacity to make financial decisions. 
Mr F has challenged whether that should be the banks concern, but as a responsible bank  
it very much should be. Mrs F said more recently she should be allowed to ask Mr F to 
speak on her behalf, and whilst I understand that may be her preference and in future her 
need, Lloyds still needs to ensure this is done within the correct framework  as per the the 
options it set out in its final response letter.
So I find it was, on balance, reasonable for Lloyds to conclude that it should not proceed and 
open a new account for Mrs F. I want to be clear my finding is not about whether Mrs F had 
the mental capacity, or not, at that time. Rather it recognises that based on the interaction 
Lloyds had with Mrs F its decision not to proceed, as it did not have the assurances it 
needed, was fair. I also note the adviser tried to provide appropriate support by suggesting 
and organizing a signature card earlier in the meeting. 
I do agree however that Lloyds could have managed its decision not to proceed with the 
appointment more empathetically and it could have ensured the meeting was closed out in a 
more appropriate way given Mrs Fs circumstances. For the distress this caused Mrs F I 
award £200 compensation.
Mrs F has also said she has lost around £6,400 in interest by not being able to open the new 
account in February 2022. But as I have not found that Lloyds was wrong not to open an 
account at that meeting, I will not be considering these claimed losses.
More recently Mr F said that Mrs F felt forced to have the Support Need notes added to her 
account and this is wrong as the bank should have made reasonable adjustments rather 
than forcing this on her. I accept Mrs F may have not felt comfortable with this solution, but I 
find the banks intention was solely to ensure reasonable adjustments were made when 
bank staff interacted with Mrs F. 
With regards access to her pension and benefits I cant see Lloyds has done anything to 
restrict Mrs Fs access to her monies. I can understand she might not want to revisit that 
same branch, but there are other ways she can access her funds.
In terms of Mrs Fs points about discrimination, it is for the Courts to determine if a business
has acted unlawfully. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of each case. In reaching that decision, we will consider various
factors including relevant law and what we see as good industry practice from the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Lloyds has breached the Equality Act 
2010, Im required to take it into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In this case, Mr F has 
said that Lloydss decision not to open a bank account for Mrs F amounted to disability 
discrimination. There are various forms of discrimination, but in summary this means treating 
Mrs F less favourably because she has a disability  which includes dementia  or failing to 
make a reasonable adjustment to allow her to access its services. But it doesnt mean that 
Lloyds cant take it into account at all. 
As Ive explained, while Lloyds did take into account Mrs Fs dementia in how it treated her, I 
think it did so for good reason. Its staff were concerned about whether she was able to 
understand and agree to opening a new account. I think this was appropriate and not unfair. 
And Lloyds also explained what adjustments it could make  such as giving Mrs F a 
signature card, giving Mr F his own card and third-party access to Mrs Fs account, and 
explaining about power of attorney. So while Ive taken into account what the law says, Im satisfied Lloyds treated Mrs F fairly and reasonably in line with its internal policies to support 
customers as required. 
I am sorry Mrs F has found the whole experience so distressing, and I know this isnt the 
answer Mrs F was hoping for, but I hope she can take some comfort from what Ive said and 
the knowledge that an independent third-party has reviewed Lloyds actions.
Putting things right
Lloyds must pay Mrs F £200 as compensation for the distress she suffered.
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Fs complaint in part. Lloyds Bank PLC must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman