DRN-3780081
The complaint
Mr R complains about a default notice that was issued to him, in relation to a hire purchase 
agreement with STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (SMF).
What happened
In February 2022, Mr R acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement from SMF. 
The car was around six years old when it was supplied to Mr R. The cash price of the car 
was £21,464. Mr R paid a deposit of £650 so the total amount financed on the agreement 
was £20,814 payable over 60 monthly repayments of £550.97
Mr R explained that soon after entering into the finance agreement he lost his job, so was 
unable to make two of his monthly repayments. Mr R said SMF began informing him of his 
arrears and threatening him with collecting the car. Mr R said despite telling SMF that hed 
found a new job and was able to make significant payments towards the arrears, they didnt 
allow him to set-up a repayment plan and gave him a deadline of 17 May 2022 to settle the 
arrears in full.
In May 2022 Mr R brought his complaint to our service for investigation. as SMF hadnt yet 
provided a final response, the complaint was raised with SMF through our service.
In July 2022 Mr R explained that he voluntarily surrendered the car as SMF didnt 
understand his situation and continued to threaten him. 
In August 2022 SMF provided their final response to Mr Rs complaint which they didnt 
uphold. 
According to SMF system notes Mr R contacted them to set the first payment date of the 
agreement to 28 March 2022. SMF advised that theyd arrange for the date to be changed.  
However, on 26 March 2022 Mr R emailed SMF to ask for a five-day breathing space to 
make his first payment. SMF advised Mr R that missing the first payment was considered by 
them as high risk, however as long as the payment was made within five days of the due 
date, he wouldnt receive a default letter. SMF emailed Mr R on 31 March to let him know he 
was in arrears.
The system notes also confirms that on 14 April Mr R informed SMF that he had to end his 
employment due to a dispute with his employer, but he intended to make Aprils repayment 
on time. SMF responded the same day advising they couldnt arrange a repayment plan for 
the first payment and requested that he pay it in full to avoid a default letter being issued. 
SMF sent a further email on 18 April to advise of the same action. On 25 April SMF asked 
Mr R to confirm a payment date of the arrears and said if Aprils payment wasnt made a 
default letter would be issued. They also asked that Mr R contact them if he wasnt able to 
make the following payment on time.
On 29 April 2022 Mr R emailed SMF to say he couldnt make Aprils payment. SMF also 
issued a default letter on the same day. SMF provided Mr R with various options for to end 
the agreement. SMF also advised the default notice issued gave him a deadline of 17 May 
2022 before the agreement would be terminated.
In an email to our investigator dated 15 August 2022, Mr R explained that he refused to pay 
SMF anything, and that he suspended all communication with them until an outcome was 
reached through our service. 
Having considered all the information, our investigator recommended that Mr Rs complaint 
should not be upheld. Our investigator felt, in the circumstances, that SMF wasnt obliged to 
consider a repayment plan and correctly issued the default notice.
Mr R disagreed with our investigators outcome and asked that his complaint be considered 
by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. 
My starting point is that Mr R missed the first two payments of his hire purchase 
agreement, which brought him into arrears and resulted in SMF issuing a default letter to 
him. SMF didnt allow Mr R to enter into a payment arrangement to pay off his arrears. This 
is confirmed on their system notes and is agreed by both parties.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 requires businesses to serve notice on a borrower before 
they can become entitled to take certain actions, including terminating an agreement or 
recovering possession of any goods. I can see that SMF advised Mr R on different 
occasions during March and April of 2022 that he was in arrears. They also wrote to him in 
April 2022 advising he may be issued with a default notice. And later that month when the 
following payment was also missed, they issued Mr R with a default notice advising his 
agreement would be terminated if he failed to repay his arrears by a 17 May 2022. 
Under the terms of the hire purchase agreement, Early termination by Us section 9.4, it says 
a notice under the CCA can be served if you do not pay any repayment or other sum due 
under this agreement when it is due. Mr R missed two consecutive payments on the 
agreement, so Im satisfied that SMF were acting fairly when they issued the default notice.The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found within the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) handbook, says that a business must treat customers in default or in 
arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration.
When Mr R informed SMF that he was unable to make the first payment he was given 
different opportunities to catch-up with it before a default letter was issued. And in 
consideration of Aprils payment, SMF advised Mr R to let them know in advance if he 
couldnt make it; they also explained what the consequences would be if the payment wasnt 
made on time. In consideration of the FCA rules, Im satisfied that SMF showed forbearance 
in the circumstances. 
CONC also says that where a customer fails to make an occasional payment, 
a business should allow unmade payments to be made within the original term of the 
agreement, unless they reasonably believe that terminating the agreement will lessen any 
adverse consequences for the customer.
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded that Mr Rs situation was more 
significant than missing an occasional payment. Missing the first two payments of an 
agreement are potentially indicative of underlying financial issues. And given Mr R chose to 
leave his employment, I think that had SMF entered into a repayment plan with him at the 
time, thered be a considerable risk that this would have caused him further financial 
consequences, for example through incurred fees and charges, interest or increased 
arrears. 
All things considered, Im satisfied that SMF were acting fairly when they refused to enter 
into a payment arrangement with Mr R, and when they issued the default notice on his 
agreement.
From an email dated 11 July 2022, Mr R says that he voluntarily surrendered the agreement. 
Mr R also advised in a later email that he refused to have any further communication with 
SMF. As my decision focussed on whether SMF treated Mr R fairly when he told them he 
was in financial difficulties, I havent considered Mr Rs current situation. However, as Ive 
found that SMF acted fairly I leave it to Mr R to liaise with SMF to arrange the repayment of 
any balances or amounts due.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE 
LIMITED.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman