DRN-3891737
The complaint
Mr P complains that when he claimed for a replacement Starlight Apple Watch 7 series when 
his was stolen, American International Group UK Limited sent him a different colour watch. 
Hes unhappy with the colour of the replacement and wants them to send him a Starlight 
watch or pay him its equivalent value.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr Ps watch was stolen when he left his bag unattended while he went to 
the toilet on a train. He has a gadget insurance policy underwritten by AIG. He registered his 
claim on 19 August 2022 and paid his policy excess. 
Mr P says that when he registered his claim online there was no option to select a Starlight 
watch as this said to be out of stock. He wanted the same colour watch so Mr P says he 
called AIG and was told to select a Midnight watch, and a note would be put on the system 
that he required a Starlight watch.
Mr P received his replacement watch on 24 August 2022. He raised a complaint the same 
day as hed received a Midnight watch which wasnt the colour he wanted. AIG spoke to Mr 
P on 25 August 2022. And wrote to him the same day saying that his complaint wasnt 
upheld. 
In their letter AIG said that they aim to match the make, model and specifications of the 
insured equipment. They also aim to replace it with the same colour, but if that colour isnt 
available, theyll send an alternative. They said the watch Mr P was sent was the same as he 
claimed for, but the strap was a different colour. This was due to the colour being registered 
incorrectly online. And they said they couldnt find any record of the conversation Mr P says 
hed had with them about the colour of the watch he wanted.  
Mr P wasnt happy with the response hed received and complained to our service. Our 
investigator considered the case but didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mr Ps watch had 
been replaced with one of the same make and model. And his policy doesnt guarantee a 
replacement of the same colour. 
Our investigator agreed with Mr P that the photographs hed provided showed that the watch 
and strap hed been sent were both Midnight in colour. But she didnt think there was 
enough evidence to say AIG had promised a Starlight replacement, as his policy made it 
clear this couldnt be guaranteed.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators opinion. He maintains that he was told by AIGs advisor 
to claim for a Midnight watch which he didnt want. He says that if the advisor had explained 
how things worked, hed have requested another colour, as he doesnt like midnight green. 
And he paid £450 for the watch, which included extra for the starlight colour he wanted, and 
hes now left with a product he doesnt like.  
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy says that any replacement device will be of the same make, model and 
condition of the of Device immediately prior to the incident giving rise to the claim.
Mr Ps watch was stolen, and I think AIG have provided a replacement that meets the terms 
and conditions of his policy, as theyve provided an Apple Watch series 7.
I understand that Mr P doesnt like the colour of his replacement watch provided by AIG, but 
his policy doesnt guarantee that a replacement of a particular colour can be provided. It 
says will do its best to replace Your Device with the same colour as Your Claimed Device, 
however, there is no guarantee that this will happen.  
Mr P has told us that he spoke to an advisor at AIG who told him to order a Midnight watch, 
and theyd put a note on the system that he wanted Starlight. He says that this was the 
reason he ordered the replacement watch in Midnight and had he not been told this he 
wouldnt have ordered a watch in a colour he didnt like.
AIG have told us they cant find any record of this call, and it doesnt appear in the claim 
notes theyve provided. When Mr P put through his order, he couldnt find an option for a 
Starlight phone and I think this should have put him on notice that this colour wasnt 
available.  
While I understand Mr P is unhappy with the colour of the watch he received, I dont think 
theres enough evidence for me to say AIG promised him a watch of a particular colour. 
Especially at the time he submitted his claim for the replacement watch, they didnt have a 
Starlight watch in stock.
Im satisfied that AIG have met the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy by providing him 
with a watch of the same make and model as the one that was stolen. And as Mr Ps policy 
makes it quite clear that the colour of any replacement cant be guaranteed, Im not going to 
ask AIG to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above by final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about 
American International Group UK limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman