DRN-3273493
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the service he received from U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Direct Line when he made a claim for damage to his car. Hes aggrieved UKI asked him to validate his 
policy and when he didnt do that successfully, UKI then cancelled his policy.  
What happened
On 21 September 2020, Mr S said his car broke down and he asked a recovery assistance 
company to bring it to a garage. As the garage was closed, Mr S said his car was left outside 
the garage. The following day Mr S said he noted some damage to his bumper and made a 
claim some days later to UKI on 26 September. 
UKI began to investigate his claim and asked Mr S to validate his policy. The link Mr S 
expired so because UKI didnt receive what it required to validate Mr S policy, his policy was 
cancelled.
Mr S has complained about the way certain advisers within UKI spoke to him, including its 
engineer, who wouldnt offer Mr S a cash in lieu payment instead of repairing it. He has also 
complained that UKI should not have put his claim on Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE). He said his premium was calculated on two years No Claims Discount (NCD) instead 
of six years. He was aggrieved it would give him another years NCD as he was eight 
months into the policy. 
Mr S chose to close his claim with UKI on 11 December 2020 and raised a complaint as to 
how he felt he was treated by UKI.  And brought his complaint to us a couple of days later. 
UKI issued its final response letter on 16 December 2020. It acknowledged some areas 
where it could have done better. It paid him £100 compensation because its initial adviser 
didnt understand Mr S wanted a cash in lieu settlement and it paid him £50 compensation 
because of the way its engineer spoke to him. But otherwise it didnt uphold Mr S complaint.
So, our investigator then looked at Mr S claim following discussions with Mr S about what 
parts of his complaint he wished this service to look into. He didnt think UKI had done 
anything wrong and that it had put right everything he would have expected it to have done.
Mr S didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, Mr S and indeed UKI should be assured I have listened to every call recording on the 
file and read all the documents and correspondence from both parties. However, I will 
concentrate on what I consider is important here, as my role is to assess what if anything 
has UKI done wrong bearing in mind the terms and conditions of the policy and the evidence 
produced by UKI and Mr S. 
Cash in lieu of repairs issue
UKI has acknowledged that in the initial call when Mr S first made his claim to UKI, that the 
adviser didnt seem to understand Mr S wanted a cash in lieu payment from the start. And 
instead kept talking about the benefits of having the car repaired by an approved repairer. 
UKI acknowledged this was frustrating for Mr S. So, it upheld this part of his complaint and 
paid him £100 compensation. I consider that is reasonable. 
However, this continued with Mr Ss dealing with UKIs engineer. The engineer said Mr Ss 
car would need to be taken to an approved repairer in order to assess the damage, before 
any talk of settlement could take place. I consider this is reasonable and essential before 
UKI could ever be in a position to offer any settlement whether a cash in lieu one or getting 
the damage repaired by its own approved repairer. Given pandemic issues engineers were 
not attending peoples homes to inspect vehicles. Further there were issues identified by the 
engineer with Mr S car in that from the database information, it seems that Mr S car had 
been written off twice before. Nonetheless UKI paid Mr S £50 for the way the engineer spoke 
to Mr S. I also consider that reasonable.
Given these issues I dont consider UKI needs to do anything more here. I consider UKI was 
entitled to assess Mr S car before any decision was made on a cash in lieu settlement as it 
must verify the damage being claimed. The engineer said he called the repair garage 
chosen by Mr S for their estimate which they couldnt seem to find. The engineer was of the 
view the damage to the car was inconsistent, was possibly the result of more than one 
incident given evidence produced by an insurer Mr S was previously insured with and was 
possibly pre-existing. UKI properly explained this to Mr S in its letter of 10 December. 
UKIs decision to have Mr S validate his policy
UKI is fully entitled to rely on the opinion of its engineer and because of that, it took the 
decision to validate Mr S policy. I dont consider there is anything wrong in doing that. Any 
insurer, including UKI, can seek to validate a policy at any time. Invariably in doing so, things 
get sorted out and clarified to the insurers satisfaction and then the claim can continue. But 
that didnt happen here as shortly after UKI raised this issue, Mr S then wanted his claim 
closed. On that basis I dont consider that UKI did anything wrong, since Mr S didnt respond 
to its questions on this and didnt provide the documents it requested.
Further in relation to the documents UKI requested, UKI asked Mr S to upload them via a 
link concerning proof of Mr S address. UKI sent the link to Mr S on 12 November and its 
system shows the email was opened on the same day. Since the email was only sent to Mr 
S, I consider it reasonable to deduce that it was Mr S who opened this email that day. 
Therefore, I dont consider it was the case that Mr S only found this email on 26 November, 
the day by which he was supposed to upload the relevant documents. UKI did provide 
another link, and then refused to provide yet another one. Given its clear its original email of 
12 November was opened on that day, I dont consider UKI was unreasonable to decide not 
to provide any further links. As a consequence, I consider Mr S policy was rightly cancelled 
because the required documents werent received by UKI. 
Consequent cancellation of his policy.
Because I dont consider UKI were wrong in cancelling Mr S policy because it didnt receive coherent validation of his policy, therefore I dont consider UKI is responsible for any 
consequences of the cancellation of Mr S policy. In any event its not responsible for any 
premium pricing by any other insurer.
Involving a claims inspector and Mr S contention this meant UKI had no intention in 
resolving his claim
Any insurer including UKI can involve a claims inspector whenever they wish for further 
information or indeed to test the policyholders evidence. There is nothing wrong with this 
because insurers are under a duty to satisfy themselves, they have gathered all the 
necessary evidence before paying a claim. 
If Mr S had validated his policy, and answered the questions asked, which merely pertained 
to answering the issues raised by the engineer about possible previous damage, and 
clarification of the events leading up the incident of how his car broke down, UKI could have 
proceeded to deal with his claim. But Mr S closed his claim the day UKI raised many of 
these issues with him. 
So, on that basis, I cant see that UKI could be said to have not wished to resolve Mr S 
claim since Mr S closed off the claim before it could do anything to resolve his claim.
Recording his claim on CUE
Every claim reported to insurers must be logged on CUE. Its a requirement for UKI to do this 
rather than a choice. It doesnt matter whether the policyholder went ahead with the claim or 
not. So UKI did nothing wrong with logging this one. Given Mr S said no one else was 
involved, its also right it was initially logged as a fault claim. A fault claim is one where the 
insurer has no ability to recoup its claim costs from another entity. Sometimes that means it 
actually is a fault claim on the policyholder because the policyholder was liable for causing 
the accident which led not only to their claim but also any claim from another driver. Other 
times it means exactly what it does here, simply that there is no one else involved to for UKI 
to recoup its losses from.
The reason every claim is lodged on CUE is that it gives subsequent insurers salient 
underwriting information necessary for them to underwrite the risk presented. It also ensures 
that if a consumer doesnt disclose something either deliberately or by accident, there is a 
record of it in any event. 
As regards the compensation amount of £150 incorrectly showing on the CUE record. This 
has been sorted out by Mr S involvement of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Given the ICO is now satisfied that UKI removed this from CUE, I have no comments to 
make on this. This service is not part of the ICO.
NCD issue and premium refund.
There is no requirement on any insurer, including UKI is issue another years NCD without 
that full policy year being insured having passed. So, there was no reason for UKI to give Mr 
S another years NCD because he had eight months cover with it. 
UKI confirmed the premium refund was calculated using the six years NCD which Mr S had. 
Ive seen no evidence that it was miscalculated on merely two years NCD. 
As the investigator explained there would be no reason for UKI to give Mr S a full premium 
refund because he was in fact insured for eight months. The policy is clear on this as it says the following:
If we cancel your policy, we will return the premium paid less the amount for 
the period the policy has been in force.
If you have made a claim or if one has been made against you and we cancel 
your policy, we will return the premium paid, less a charge for the number of 
days for which cover has been given.
Theres no evidence before me which shows me that UKI didnt follow the terms and 
conditions of the policy following its cancellation of it, because it didnt receive the required 
documents it asked Mr S to provide. 
Mr S complaints about being treated unfairly by varying UKI advisers, calling him names, 
assuming he was involved in criminal activity, and hiding things and/or not caring about the 
information provided.
Having listened carefully to all the calls, I cant hear any evidence of this beyond which UKI 
has already paid Mr S compensation for. UKI are entitled to verify any policyholders account 
of what might have happened. In several calls Mr S talked over the adviser making it more 
difficult for each party to understand each other. UKI has every right to ask more in-depth 
questions beyond what Mr S said, in order to query and verify things. This is because it must 
be satisfied it understands everything before progressing any claim. This is standard 
insurance practice and there is nothing wrong with that.
Theres no evidence to show me that UKI singled out Mr S out or treated him differently to 
anyone else making a claim. It was simply requiring the necessary proof when appropriate of 
what Mr S was claiming, which in any event Mr S didnt provide. 
Mr S told the investigator many times he had further evidence to prove he was being called a 
liar, names or was talked to in a condescending tone or involved in criminal activity but no 
such information about this was forthcoming. 
My role is merely to assess whether UKI did anything wrong here in its dealings with Mr S 
over his claim. Save for what UKI has paid compensation for, which in event I consider 
reasonable as detailed above, I dont consider UKI investigation into Mr S claim was wrong 
or undertaken in an unreasonable or unfair way. I consider its concerns were reasonable 
hence its further investigations. Mr S didnt appreciate any of this which I understand, but 
that doesnt mean UKI were wrong. Therefore, I dont consider UKI needs to anything more.
I do understand Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, but it is up to him whether he 
wishes to accept it or not. If he doesnt, it will not be binding on either Mr S or UKI and Mr S 
remains free to pursue his complaint with UKI elsewhere.   
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman