DRN-4038431
The complaint
Mrs B complains that despite agreeing a partial settlement for a debt owned by Arrow Global 
Limited trading as Arrow Global the full account balance was later returned to the original 
lender. 
What happened
Mrs B had a credit card with a business Ill call V. The credit card was closed at default and 
sold to Arrow in May 2020. Mrs B has explained she was subject to a Debt Management 
Plan (DMP) and in June 2021 Arrow agreed to accept a partial settlement. Once the partial 
settlement was made, a balance of £939.13 remained. Arrow agreed it wouldnt pursue Mrs 
B for the remaining balance. 
Last year, Mrs B complained that V had lent irresponsibly. V went on to uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint and issued a final response. Mrs B has sent us a copy of Vs final response which 
says it was unable to satisfy itself that the lending was suitable. V advised the outstanding 
balance of £3,554.95 had been sold to Arrow and would need to be retrieved. And V said 
that if an outstanding balance remained, any refunds it made would be used towards 
repaying it. 
Mrs B says there were delays in the buyback process from Arrow. The account buy back 
was requested in October 2022 and Arrow says it was processed in December 2022 after it 
clarified information with V. 
When the account was returned to V, Arrow noted Mrs B had paid a partial settlement of 
£2,195 and that £939.13 hadnt been repaid. Arrows advised that V requested a return of 
the full account balance. 
Mrs B complained to Arrow and said that before she complained to V the account had been 
settled and she didnt owe any money. But despite having her irresponsible lending 
complaint against V upheld, Mrs V now owed £939.13 that formed part of the partial 
settlement. 
Arrow sent Mrs B a final response but didnt uphold her complaint. Arrow agreed it had 
accepted a partial settlement in June 2021. But Arrow advised that despite accepting a 
partial settlement the balance wasnt cleared. Arrow advised that by accepting a partial 
settlement it agreed not to pursue Mrs B for the remaining balance. Arrow also advised that 
V had contacted it in November 2022 and requested a buy back of the full account balance 
which was £3,554.95. 
Mrs B referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought there had been some avoidable delays in completing the buyback process and 
asked Arrow of pay Mrs B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. But the 
investigator wasnt persuaded Arrow had acted unfairly in the way it returned the account to 
V. 
Mrs B responded to the investigator and confirmed she was willing to accept. But, despite 
several requests chasing Arrows response, it didnt confirm whether it was willing to accept. 
As Arrow didnt respond to the investigators view, Mrs Bs complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached broadly the same position as the investigator in this case. I understand Mrs B 
reached an agreement via their DMP administrator that Arrow would accept a partial 
settlement and cease trying to collect the remaining balance. But that was an agreement Mrs 
B reached between her and Arrow. And as Arrows final response said, the partial settlement 
didnt repay the balance in full, only that it wouldnt chase the outstanding balance. I 
understand why Mrs B may feel its unfair for the full account balance to have been returned 
to V. But I havent been persuaded that Arrow acted unfairly or made a mistake. 
I agree with the investigator that there appears to have been avoidable delays in completing 
the buyback process. And I agree that the notes on file indicate that the process was only 
completed once Mrs B complained. Im satisfied Mrs B was caught between Arrow and V 
and that the situation caused some inconvenience. Our investigator asked Arrow to pay 
Mrs B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. In my view, that figure fairly reflects 
how the buyback process impacted Mrs B and is a reasonable way to resolve her complaint. 
As Im satisfied a payment of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, Im going to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and proceed on 
that basis. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct Arrow Global Limited trading as 
Arrow Global to pay her £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman