DRN-3420586
The complaint and background
Mr N has complained about the overdraft facility on his current account and the charges 
associated with that facility. He says that HSBC UK Bank Plc has harassed him about 
repaying the overdrawn balance despite his financial difficulties and is unhappy that a default 
has been recorded on his credit file regarding this account. 
We have already considered a complaint from Mr N about the overdraft and charges on this 
account from before September 2019 under a separate reference, so this complaint is 
looking only at events from after September 2019.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ns complaint. She said that HSBC had acted fairly. 
Mr N disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision. 
Mr N told HSBC about his financial difficulties in late 2019, and as a result HSBC stopped 
further charges from being applied to Mr Ns account and refunded charges that had been 
applied since November 2019. It seems HSBC also opened a separate basic account for 
Mr N to help him to manage his finances. But the outstanding debt on Mr Ns current account 
remained, and over the following months HSBC wrote to Mr N repeatedly to ask him to get in 
touch to talk about the account and to discuss what help HSBC could offer if Mr N was 
struggling to repay the debt.
When Mr N didnt get in touch or pay anything into his account HSBC wrote to him again to 
explain that it would be defaulting the account.  
Looking at everything that happened here, I dont think that HSBC has acted unfairly. We 
wouldnt expect a lender to keep an account open with an overdrawn balance when there is 
no prospect of that overdrawn balance being repaid in a reasonable period of time. As Mr N 
didnt take any steps to reduce the balance of the account  and has said he cannot afford to 
repay it  a reasonable course of action on HSBCs part was to take steps to default the 
account. This is the kind of action we would expect a bank to take in these circumstances.
I do sympathise with what Mr N has told us. I fully appreciate hes gone through a difficult 
time and understand why hes unhappy with adverse information being recorded on his 
credit file. But a credit file is intended to show a true and accurate reflection of a borrowers 
ability to service their debts, so what HSBC has recorded about this account does appear to 
be an accurate representation of Mr Ns circumstances. 
Bearing in mind the above, I dont think that HSBC treated Mr N unfairly or unreasonably. 
And this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr N. But I hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to
.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman