DRN-2889415
The complaint
Mr A complains MBNA Limited reduced his credit card account limits unfairly.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has two credit card accounts with MBNA. They were both opened several years ago. In 
May 2020 Mr A asked for Covid related payment deferrals on his accounts  meaning he 
wouldnt need to make payments to the accounts for several months. There was an issue 
with their implementation initially, but this was resolved, and they were later extended to 
October 2020. MBNA treated Mr A fairly and in line with Covid related industry guidance 
here. 
In October 2020 Mr A had a call with MBNA. Ive listened to a recording of this call. His 
circumstances were discussed, which included details of Mr As business difficulties and his 
reliance on government support. Mr A feels MBNA took these details in a covert manner as 
he didnt know they could have an impact on his accounts. I dont agree. Mr A was 
contacting MBNA about his financial difficulties and MBNA, as required of it, took details to 
see how it could support him. The call handler did what she could to support Mr A as, after 
discussing several things, she put in place 30 days breathing space for him, meaning no 
interest or charges would be applied, and he wouldnt be contacted by its collections 
department. MBNA treated Mr A fairly and reasonably here.
In November 2020 MBNA reviewed Mr As credit limits. One was reduced from £11,400 to 
£2,350. The other from £8,900 to £5,700. Mr A is unhappy about this. But MBNA can reduce 
credit limits if it thinks its appropriate to do so. Here, I think its decision to do so was fair and 
reasonable. I say this because Mr A had significant available credit  about £12,500, against 
outstanding balances of about £7,500, which hed been unable to maintain for some time. 
Neither reduction took Mr As limit below his outstanding balance. I accept Mr A feels his 
credit score was impacted by the reductions and thats unfair. But MBNA isnt responsible for 
supporting his credit score. Instead, its responsible for ensuring the credit it makes available 
to him is affordable. Im satisfied thats what it did here. 
Mr A says MBNA continued to reduce his credit limits as his outstanding balances reduced. 
Ive reviewed his credit card statements and I cant see thats the case. One account had the 
limit reduced to £2,350 and the latest statement Ive seen, dated 6 September 2021, shows 
the same limit. The credit limited of £5,700 on the other account also remained the same. I 
cant see MBNA has done anything wrong here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman