DRN-4018359
The complaint
Mrs R complains about her new ISA provided by Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as Virgin 
Money  (Virgin).
What happened
Mrs R had an easy access ISA with Virgin. Its interest rate reduced over time and had gone 
down to 0.1% p.a. In September 2022, she applied to Virgin to transfer the balance to a new 
ISA paying 3.02% - an online fixed rate E-ISA issue 516. The balance was then £82,280.23.
Mrs R complained. She said Virgin had reduced the interest rate on her old ISA account. 
She had applied for the new fixed rate ISA but received no confirmation that the transfer had 
been done, nor what the new rate was. She called Virgin but couldnt get through to speak to 
them about the new ISA. She also wrote to Virgin on 12 October 2022 but didnt receive a 
reply. Overall, she said she wasted a lot of time in trying to sort matters out.
Virgin said they changed the rates on their savings accounts from time to time and advise 
customers two months ahead of any changes. The key product information for online fixed 
rate E-ISA issue 516 was available on their website and showed how Mrs R could access it. 
Virgin said that ISA 516 was an online account and all correspondence and account 
information was available online. It wasnt their practice to send out letters. Virgin apologised 
for the long wait times Mrs R experienced on the phone  this was due to some high 
volumes of calls that occurred from time to time.
For the long wait times and because Mrs R didnt get an email confirmation, Virgin offered 
compensation of £100. 
Mrs R didnt accept Virgins offer and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said 
Virgins offer of £100 was reasonable. He said he couldnt intervene in Virgins setting of 
interest rates  that was a commercial decision for them to take, and it isnt our role to 
challenge that. Mrs R had applied online for her new ISA account and it had been processed 
successfully by Virgin. 
Mrs R asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman, and so it has come to me to 
do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are four aspects to Mrs Rs complaint and I will look at each of these:
- Virgin reduced the interest rate on her old ISA.
- After she applied to transfer her ISA balance to the new online fixed rate E-ISA issue 
516, she didnt get any acknowledgement/confirmation of the transfer or interest rate 
being paid. This is the main crux of her complaint as I see it.
- She called Virgin but couldnt get through.
- She wrote to Virgin on 12 October 2022 and didnt get a response.
Reduced interest rate: I can see the rate had reduced on her old ISA to 0.1%. Here, our 
investigator is correct  we cant interfere with Virgins commercial decision to reduce the 
interest rates  that is down to Virgin. So  I wont comment any further on that aspect of Mrs 
Rs complaint.
Notification of outcome of application for new ISA: This is Mrs Rs main complaint. Virgin told 
us that their process is to send an email confirmation to new account holders. We asked 
Virgin about this and asked to see a copy of the email sent to Mrs R. They showed us the 
email sent on 3 October 2022 and this said Thank you for providing us with identification 
documents for your account. We've updated our records and your account is now up and 
running So  Virgin did tell Mrs R her account was open, but I think she was looking for 
more details about it, such as the interest rate.
In their final response, they pointed Mrs R to the key product information on their website  
but this was only the general terms and conditions, and the interest rate for the online fixed 
rate E-ISA issue 516. It didnt confirm to Mrs R that her application had been successful, 
what her interest rate was - and what her balance was. That was what Mrs R was looking 
for- quite reasonably. But Virgin didnt provide that and therefore I can understand that Mrs R 
felt concerned and frustrated by that.
We asked Virgin more about this. They told us that this was an online-only account. So  
statements arent sent in paper format, nor are letters. All information that Mrs R needs is 
available if she logs on online  i.e. the balance and interest rate. Virgin said that in Mrs Rs 
case, the preferential rate of 3.02%p.a. was applied as soon as she credited her funds to the 
account - on 5 October 2022.
Virgin told us that Mrs R hasnt logged onto her account since it opened  so I can see why 
Mrs R is saying she hasnt had any information about it. But as Ive said, she must log on to 
see her account information in this case. I appreciate that Mrs R may not feel comfortable 
with logging on, but thats the only way she can get the information about her account.
Ive thought about this and the situation which Mrs R finds herself in. We cant tell 
businesses to change their operations, processes, or procedures  thats up to them, and we 
cant interfere. In other words, we cant ask Virgin to send Mrs R paper letters and 
statements.
To help Mrs R, weve asked Virgin to send her guidance on how to log on online, which Id 
encourage her to use.
Calls to Virgin: Virgin said in their final response that from time to time, high volumes of calls 
led to longer wait times than they wished to see. While I can accept that his was frustrating 
for Mrs R  as she wanted to ensure that her ISA transfer had been dealt with  I think I 
must accept Virgins apology here.
Letter dated 12 October 2022: Virgin told us that this had been received, and they treated it 
as a complaint and sent their final response on 17 October 2022. So  Virgin did response to 
her letter.Virgin has offered £100 which Mrs R has declined to accept. The key point here is that Mrs 
R opened an online-only account and therefore - she must access it by logging on online. 
Virgin apologised that she couldnt easily get through on the phone. So - on balance, I think 
Virgins offer of £100 is sufficient compensation for what happened here. 
My final decision
Virgin has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Virgin should pay £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman