DRN-4344235
The complaint
Ms D complains that Revolut Ltd unfairly held on to her funds when closing her account. 
Shed like them to cover the costs to her business of this.
What happened
Ms D had an electronic money account with Revolut. In May 2023 she found that a 
transaction she was expecting into the account had been reverted. She contacted Revolut 
but was told the account was under review and there should be an update within 14 
business days. She was later told her account was restricted, and she was unable to make 
any further payments.
Unhappy with this Ms D raised a complaint, but was told the review was ongoing, but 
Revolut refunded five months of their premium subscription fees. Ms D sent Revolut 
evidence that the funds in her account were needed for the running of her business. In July 
2023 they then wrote to her and said theyd be closing her account with immediate effect. 
The remaining funds were released on 18 July 2023.
Ms D referred her complaint to our service. At this point Revolut accepted the review had 
gone on longer than necessary and made an offer of £100 compensation. But our 
investigator didnt think this went far enough. They said Revolut had the right to review the 
account, and Ms D had breached the terms of the account by using it for business purposes. 
But they felt there were undue delays in the review. They recommended that Revolut pay 
her £150, and 8% simple interest on the funds held between 12 June and 18 July 2023.
Revolut accepted this as an outcome, but Ms D disagreed. She said she had not been given 
an explanation of why the review took longer than stated. She said her business had faced 
legal demands and loss of reputation because of the block. As no agreement could be 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its right that Revolut, as a regulated financial business, have legal and regulatory obligations 
to fulfil when supplying accounts to people. These obligations can mean that on occasion 
they need to restrict accounts and prevent any further transactions from taking place. There 
is provision for this in the terms of Ms Ds account.
Revolut arent under any specific obligation to explain the nature of the review or provide 
Ms D with specific information about what theyre looking at. So, while Ms D has asked for 
further information this isnt something Revolut are required to give her. But, as the 
investigator has pointed out, Ms D was using the account for her business purposes which is 
against the terms of the personal account she had. Ive reviewed the evidence available, and 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Revolut to restrict, and ultimately close, Ms Ds account. 
This is in line with the terms of the account that she agreed to.
But any review should be conducted as quickly and efficiently as possible. I can see from the 
chat history Ms D was asking regularly for updates and was given an expectation that she 
would have an answer within 14 working days. Revolut didnt meet that deadline and havent 
been able to provide a reasonable explanation to our service as to why not. On that basis, 
Im satisfied they could have released her funds earlier than they did  I agree 12 June 2023 
would have been an appropriate date. This means Ms D has been deprived of the use of the 
funds in the account for just over a month longer than she should have been.
Ive gone on to consider the impact of this on Ms D. The difficulty here is that the funds in the 
account appear to be a mix of funds used for Ms Ds personal expenses, as well as money 
paid to her business. 
From what Ms D has sent Revolut, and from Companies House, I can see that Ms Ds 
business is incorporated as a limited company. This means its a separate and distinct legal 
entity to Ms D as a person. Our service can only consider a complaint from, and the losses 
to, Ms D personally as she is the account holder here.
Under the rules of our service, I cant consider any losses to her company  for example the 
loss of reputation she claims her company has suffered, or for the legal threats received. 
The company doesnt have accounts with Revolut, or any of the other qualifying 
relationships to bring a complaint to our service. So, I will not be making an award for these.
Ive not seen any evidence of any personal losses to Ms D. Its not possible to separate Ms 
Ds personal funds from those paid to her business. But I can see that the funds were 
ultimately released to Ms D in her personal capacity. Therefore, I think its appropriate for 
Revolut to pay 8% simple interest per annum on the whole balance. This is to represent the 
lost use of these funds. Its also in line with the debt awards a court may make.
In terms of compensation, I can see from the chat history how frustrating and upsetting the 
block was for Ms D. Its always likely theres going to be a degree of upset caused when an 
account is blocked. But as Ive found the block to be reasonable, I wouldnt compensate her 
just for the frustration caused by the block. I accept the delays past when she expected a 
resolution would have caused more upset than necessary. On that basis Im satisfied 
compensation is appropriate  and I see £150 as a fair amount, in addition to the five 
months of subscription fees already refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and to settle it Revolut Ltd must:
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on Ms Ds balance from 12 June 2023 to 18 July 
2023. If Revolut are required by HMRC to deduct tax from this amount they should 
provide Ms D with a certificate showing how much was deducted, should be ask for 
one.
Pay Ms D £150 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman