DRN-3693126
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse money sent to an incorrect 
bank account.
What happened
Mr J held a current account with Barclays which was closed in 2011. In 2017, Mr J directed a 
payment from his pension to the bank account that had been closed in 2011 by mistake. 
Further payments were similarly directed to that account until the mistake was realised in 
2021. At that time, Mr J contacted Barclays and asked them to recover his money, which 
totalled a significant amount. 
Barclays explained to Mr J that his old account number had been recycled and assigned to a 
newer account owned by a business, which meant that the incorrectly sent payments had 
been received into that businesss account. Barclays also explained that theyd attempted to 
contact the business owners and request the return of the money, but that their attempts had 
been unsuccessful and that as such they couldnt recover the money. Mr J wasnt happy 
about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Js complaint. They confirmed that theyd attempted to recover the 
money for Mr J but had been unable to do so. Barclays also didnt feel that theyd made any 
errors that had led to the money being sent to the incorrect account, and so they didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But while they sympathised with Mr Js 
position, they also didnt feel that Barclays could fairly be held accountable for what had 
happened, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr J remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr J unfortunately instructed the transfer of a significant amount of 
money from his pension to a sort-code and account number which corresponded with a 
Barclays account that Mr J had closed in 2011. And because that account number had been 
recycled by Barclays in the years after Mr J closed the account, this meant that the same 
sort-code and account number belonged to a more recently opened account owned by a 
third-party. This in turn meant that the large sums of money that Mr J sent from his pension 
were received into that other account.
It's only human to sympathise with Mr J here. But my role is to assess whether Barclays 
have acted unfairly towards Mr J in how theyve managed this situation, or if theyve made 
any form of error thats led to Mr J incurring the ongoing financial loss that he has. And given 
the circumstances that Ive described above, I feel that the only fair and reasonable 
conclusion that I can make is that Barclays havent made an error or acted unfairly.
The reasons for my position here include that ultimately, the responsibility for ensuring that 
the money from his pension was sent to a correct account rested with Mr J. And all Barclays 
have done is complete transfers from Mr Js pension to the account number and sort-code 
requested of them by Mr J.
Of course, if the account number hadnt been recycled by Barclays, such that it was an 
invalid and unused account number, then the transfers would have been rejected and this 
issue would never have arisen. But given that theres only a finite number of possible 
account numbers that can be used, it isnt uncommon for a bank to recycle an account 
number and assign it to a new customer after a reasonable period of time. And given that  
Mr J began instructing the transfers from his pension several years after hed closed the 
Barclays account in 2011, I feel that a reasonable amount of time since that account closure 
took place had passed.
Mr J also asks how Barclays could allow the transfers to take place when the name 
instructed on the transfers  his own  didnt match the name of the business to whom the 
account with the recycled account number belonged. 
However, while systems such as Confirmation of Payee do exist and can determine whether 
a given account name matches the name of a recipient account, these systems are only for 
transfers between current accounts, and only work if both the receiving and the sending 
institutions employ them. 
But in this instance, the transfer originated from Mr Js pension provider and so these 
systems didnt apply. As such, the transfer was dependent on the sort-code and account 
number given, which unfortunately in this case werent correct.
In circumstances such as this, where money has been transferred mistakenly to an incorrect 
account, it would be expected that Barclays would attempt to contact the third-party who had 
received the money and request its return. Barclays did attempt to do this on several 
occasions, but they were unable to contact any representatives of the business to whom the 
account in question belonged. 
Importantly, it must be noted that Barclays dont have the right to simply take the money 
from the businesses account on Mr Js behalf in these in these circumstances. One reason 
for this is because these circumstances dont suggest any form of activity regarding the 
transfers that would generally be considered as fraudulent, but rather are more commonly 
representative of an unfortunate mistake  which I feel is what ultimately happened here. 
All of which means that, while I absolutely sympathise with Mr J here and hope that he is 
able to recover the money in question via alternative channels, Im satisfied that Barclays 
didnt make any errors in completing the transfers to the sort-code and account number they 
were instructed to, and also that Barclays did make reasonable attempts to recover the 
money for Mr J as they would be expected to. 
Given my position on these points, I wouldnt consider instructing Barclays to reimburse Mr J 
such that Barclays bear the cost of whats happened here themselves, because Im assured 
that it would be both unfair and unreasonable for me to instruct Barclays to do so.
All of which means that my final decision here is that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Barclays to take any further action, although I do encourage Barclays to continue to work with Mr J to recover his money if its possible to do so. I hope that Mr J will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman