DRN-3322508
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) refused her chargeback request for a 
debit card payment to a travel firm which subsequently ceased trading.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here 
again. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by the card scheme operator (here its Visa) 
to process settlement disputes between the card issuer (such as HSBC)  on behalf 
of the cardholder (Mrs H)  and the merchant (here its the travel firm Mrs H made 
the payment to). It is not a legal right that the cardholder has.
Visa sets the chargeback rules and time limits for transactions made using the Visa 
card scheme. And it is Visa that decides whether a chargeback is successful  the 
card issuer simply makes a request on the cardholders behalf. If the card issuer 
knows it is out of time, or is unlikely to succeed, I wouldnt necessarily expect it to 
raise a chargeback. 
Under Visas rules applicable to this case, a chargeback must be requested within 
(i) 120 days of the transaction processing date or (ii) within 120 days of the last date 
the cardholder expected to receive the goods or services (but not exceeding 540 
days from the transaction processing date).
Mrs Hs chargeback request is for a payment of £718 that she made to the travel firm 
on 25 November 2019. I understand the tour was originally scheduled for September 
2020 and was subsequently rescheduled for September 2021 due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. But the firm ceased trading at the end of April 2021 and Mrs H was 
informed of this the following month. HSBC received the chargeback request on 
18 June 2021. 
Although Mrs H contacted HSBC within 120 days of becoming aware that the firm 
had ceased trading and could no longer provide the tour, this was more than 540 
days from the transaction processing date. Unfortunately, this means that the request 
was made outside Visas chargeback rules. 
I acknowledge Mrs Hs comment that the circumstances of her claim made it 
impossible for her to comply with the time limits. But chargebacks are decided based 
on the card schemes rules, not the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. 
And, when we consider chargeback complaints, were only looking at the actions of 
the card issuer, not the fairness of the card schemes rules. Given that the request 
was made too late under the applicable rules, I cant fairly say that HSBC acted 
unreasonably by not raising a chargeback.
Ive also considered Mrs Hs point regarding a provision in Visas chargeback rules 
about failed travel suppliers. In short, for any claims made under the chargeback 
reason code relevant here, Visa requires the card issuer to have attempted to 
recover the funds from the applicable bonding authority or insurance scheme before 
raising a chargeback. Mrs H submits that HSBC failed to take this step. But I dont 
think its failure to take this action matters here. Complying with this condition is a 
prerequisite for requesting a chargeback. Given Mrs H was already out of time when 
she requested a chargeback, HSBC didnt need to meet this specific condition as it 
was already too late for Visa to deem the chargeback valid.
I know Mrs H will be disappointed with this outcome, not least because her complaint has 
been ongoing for some time. Despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which she 
finds herself, I dont find that HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it dealt with 
the chargeback request. Accordingly, I find no basis to tell it to make good Mrs Hs loss.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman