DRN-4166371
The complaint
Mr R complains that the redress after BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) 
agreed he could reject his car. He would like his deposit refunded along with payments 
made from when the rejection was agreed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
BMWFS accepted our investigators view in part but didnt agree to Mr Rs deposit 
being refunded in full due to what it felt was damage that fell outside of fair wear and 
tear. Our investigator asked BMWFS several times to clarify what damage charges 
BMWFS wished to still apply but BMWFS hasnt responded. I think it has had 
sufficient time to do so. On this basis I think its only fair to Mr R that I  go ahead and 
make a final decision based on the information that I have to date. 
Whilst we are not bound by consumer legislation we do take it into account. The  
Consumer Rights Act 2015 explains that refunds due to consumers on rejection of 
goods can be reduced to consider usage of the goods. And the contract Mr R signed  
allowed for charging for damages outside of fair wear and tear. So, I think its 
reasonable Mr R could have expected some potential reduction of money owing to 
him when BMWFS agreed to rejection of his car.
BMWFS refunded three of the eight payments Mr R made to reflect fair usage. I think 
that was reasonable as although Mr R disputes the mileage driven the evidence we 
have, showed Mr R drove 5000 miles whilst he had the car. We would usually add 
8% simple interest to such refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement 
so BMWFS should add this if it hasnt already done so.
When there is agreement to reject vehicles we usually expect any deposit to be 
refunded with 8% simple interest added from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. I am pleased to note that BMWFS, whilst it disputes a total refund being 
made, has agreed to the addition of simple interest to the refund.
In terms of damages BMWFS has provided pictures of the cars condition on 
collection but not a vehicle condition report the day the car was collected. The photos 
dont mark areas of damage. And it appears that a BCA report dated 12 October 
2022 doesnt note most of the damage that BMWFS charged Mr R for. Also, the 
report was carried out some months after the car was collected. Our investigator 
asked BMWFS questions about the alloys, the charge for a key, paintwork damage 
and the tyres but has had no response despite various prompts. As BMWFS hasnt 
provided sufficient proof of the damage it is charging for I dont think I can reasonably 
agree to its charges being deducted from the deposit refund due to Mr R.
Our investigator recommended a distress and inconvenience payment of £250.I think 
this is reasonable and am pleased BMWFS agreed to this along with agreeing to no 
negative information being recorded on Mr Rs credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited should:
Repay Mr Rs deposit in full  with 8% simple interest added from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
If it hasnt already done so, pay Mr R 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement of his three refunded monthly payments
Ensure no negative information is recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to this 
agreement
Pay Mr R £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman