DRN-3458073
The complaint
Mr H and Ms R complain about the way that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has settled a claim
they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H and Ms R have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building
society.
In November 2019, Mr H and Ms R booked a multi-centre, package holiday abroad. They
were due to travel between 11 March and 3 April 2020. As their trip costs exceeded the
standard policy cancellation and curtailment limit, they paid UKI an additional premium to
extend their cancellation and curtailment cover to £8300 per person.
Mr H and Ms R flew to the first of the countries they were due to visit as planned on 11
March 2020. However, on 13 March 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, their tour operator
told them theyd need to return to the UK by 16 March 2020, or theyd have to quarantine
abroad for 30 days. The tour operator arranged a repatriation flight for Mr H and Ms R at no
additional cost and they returned to the UK on 16 March 2020. They made a claim for the full
costs of their curtailed holiday.
UKI accepted Mr H and Ms Rs claim and settled it in part under the natural disaster
provision set out in the curtailment section of the policy. The policy covered a policyholders
unused expenses. So UKI obtained evidence from the tour operator of the holiday elements
Mr H and Ms R had been able to use before they had to cut short their trip, including hotel
accommodation; a private transfer; a tour; a dinner and their outbound flights  and the
respective cost of each of these. It also deducted the cost of their original return flight,
because the repatriation flight had been arranged at no cost to Mr H and Ms R. These used
expenses totalled around £7285. So UKI paid Mr H and Ms R the remaining balance of their
unused trip costs of around £9303, less the applicable policy excess.
However, UKI acknowledged that it hadnt handled Mr H and Ms Rs claim as well as it
couldve done. It had made administration errors and it had wrongly directed Mr H and Ms R
to make a section 75 claim on their credit card. Thered also been some claim delays. So
UKI paid Mr H and Ms R £150 compensation.
Mr H and Ms R were unhappy with the settlement and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator broadly thought UKI had settled the claim fairly. He felt the policy made
clear that UKI would only cover a policyholders unused curtailment costs. In this case, he
was satisfied that UKI was entitled to deduct the costs of the parts of the trip which Mr H and
Ms R had used. He also felt it was reasonable for UKI to decline to cover the cost of Mr H
and Ms Rs original return flight, as theyd always have had to pay to get home irrespective
of the curtailment of their trip. And they hadnt had to pay for their actual repatriation return
flight. So he thought it was reasonable for UKI to treat the original flight cost as a used
expense.
But he recommended that UKI should take into account the increased premium Mr H and Ms
R had paid for additional cover when calculating settlement to see if it had any impact. And
he felt it would be fair for UKI to pay total compensation of £250 for the way itd handled the
claim.
Both parties disagreed.
UKI felt the compensation itd already paid fairly reflected the inconvenience its errors had
caused. And it said that the additional cover Mr H and Ms R had taken out would only have
covered the full amount of their trip cost if theyd cancelled before travelling. Once a trip had
begun, the settlement would be pro-rated in line with how much of the trip had gone ahead
before a holiday was curtailed. In this case, Mr H and Ms Rs settlement fell below the policy
limits regardless.
Mr H and Ms R didnt feel UKI had taken into account that this was a tailored-trip covering a
continent. So their outbound and inbound flights had been integral to the tour of the
continent  which they hadnt been able to experience. They said they had not decided to cut
short their trip, the tour operator had strongly advised them to return to the UK. Their policy
had no specific exclusions relating to Covid-19. They said UKI had had no system in place to
deal with calls from travellers stranded abroad  but calling for authorisation before travelling
home was a requirement set out in the policy. They feel the settlement is grossly and legally
unfair. And they said the sales person who upgraded their cover told them their applicable
limit would be £8300 per person in the event the tour was stopped.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 April 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought UKI had settled Mr H and Ms Rs claim fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms and conditions of Mr H and Ms Rs policy and the circumstances of their claim to
decide whether UKI treated them fairly.
Did UKI settle the claim fairly?
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr H and Ms Rs policy, as these form the
basis of the contract between UKI and Mr H and Ms R. I appreciate that when Mr H and R
booked their holiday, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have
been foreseen by either policyholders or insurers. But no insurance policy covers every
eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of risk they wish to accept in return
for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, UKIs obligations under its contract with Mr H
and Ms R are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr H and Ms R didnt take out an all-risks policy. This means that UKI has set out the
specific, listed insured events its chosen to cover if a policyholder has to cut short their
holiday. Mr H and Ms R were able to fly abroad as theyd planned and were able to spend a
few days in a city theyd intended to travel to before they were advised to return home
around three weeks earlier than theyd planned. This means that their trip wasnt cancelled
before the date of departure and as such, I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mr H and
Ms Rs claim didnt fall within the scope of cancellation cover. Instead, Mr H and Ms Rs trip
was curtailed  so I think it was appropriate for UKI to consider the claim under the Cutting
Short your Trip (after your trip has started) section of the policy.
This section says that if a policyholder has to cut short their trip due to one of the listed,
specified events, UKI will:pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if you have to cut
your trip short, including:
 Unused commercially operated accommodation and travel costs.
 Unused car hire.
 Unused excursions and activities.
 Unused kennel, cattery or professional pet sitter costs.
 Unused car parking costs.
 If you have to return home early and you cant use your return tickets we will pay
reasonable costs for additional accommodation and travel. (Emphasis added).
One of the listed, insured events UKI covers for curtailment is natural disaster  which
includes a pandemic. As Mr H and Ms R were unable to continue their trip due to a natural
disaster, which affected all of their pre-booked destinations, UKI accepted their claim under
this heading. However, this doesnt mean that UKI had to pay Mr H and Ms Rs full trip costs.
I think the policy terms make it clear that UKI will only cover a policyholders unused
curtailment costs.
In this case, the tour operator provided UKI with a breakdown of the elements of the trip
which Mr H and Ms R were able to use. This didnt just include their outbound flight and
indeed, it doesnt seem as if Mr H and Ms R were restricted to remaining in their hotel. I say
that because not only did they make use of their accommodation, they were also able to
undertake a tour and a dinner, as well as using private transfers. So it seems to me that Mr
H and Ms R did use some of their trip bookings, even though their enjoyment of them might
have been limited by the unfolding situation. In these circumstances though, I think UKI was
reasonably entitled to deduct the used expenses from the settlement it paid Mr H and Ms R.
I acknowledge that their pre-booked return flight was an unused cost as the tour operator
arranged a repatriation flight for them. However, I dont think I could fairly find that Mr H and
Ms R have suffered a financial loss for this cost. I say that because while they travelled
home via a different route and on a different day, they didnt have to pay any additional costs
over and above what theyd already paid to fly home. And the original flight cost would still
have had to have been paid irrespective of Covid-19. As I dont think Mr H and Ms R have
suffered a financial loss for this aspect of their claim, I dont think it was unfair for UKI to
deduct the cost of the return flight from the settlement. Id add that had Mr H and Ms R had
to pay for their repatriation flight, Im satisfied that UKI would most likely have covered their
costs.
Its clear that Mr H and Ms R chose to pay to increase their cancellation and curtailment
cover limit to £8300, rather than £5000 per person. I appreciate they feel this shouldve been
factored into UKIs settlement of their claim. Ive seen a copy of UKIs claims notes and I can
confirm that UKI did consider the higher limit when it assessed the claim. Effectively, the
upgrade meant that had Mr H and Ms R cancelled their trip, the higher limit wouldve applied
and their total costs would likely have been paid. And if their unused curtailment expenses
had exceeded £5000 per person, I think UKI wouldve settled the claim in line with the higher
agreed policy limit of £8300. But that isnt what happened here. After Mr H and Ms Rs used
costs had been deducted from the curtailment claim, the remaining balance was less than
£5000 per person.
I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr H and Ms Rs position, as I appreciate they were
advised to cut short their trip due to an unprecedented and worrying situation. But overall, I
currently find that UKI settled their claim fairly.
Has UKI paid fair compensation for the errors in its claims handling?
Its clear that UKI didnt handle Mr H and Ms Rs claim as well as it couldve done. Its paid£150 compensation to recognise its mistakes. I dont doubt how frustrating it mustve been
when Mr H and Ms R couldnt reach the assistance company while they were still abroad to
discuss cover. I also dont dispute that UKI wrongly setting up two claims and wrongly
directing Mr H and Ms R to contact their card provider instead of processing the claim likely
caused Mr H and Ms R some frustration and inconvenience.
However, I also need to take into account the impact of Covid-19 on travel insurers. This
was a unique situation and global travel was impacted. Businesses also had to respond to
operational challenges. So I think some delays were likely inevitable, even if this wasnt
ideal. I accept the curtailment section of the policy does require policyholders to obtain UKIs
authorisation before returning home. But UKI did accept and settle this claim despite Mr H
and Ms R not being able to discuss their early return with it ahead of time. It seems their tour
operator was well-placed to arrange their repatriation in good time too. And in the round, I
think £150 fairly reflects the impact I think UKIs errors in the handling of this claim have
caused Mr H and Ms R. So Im not planning to tell UKI to pay anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
UKI didnt provide any further comments.
Mr H and Ms R didnt accept my provisional findings and Ive summarised their response:
They felt my decision favoured insurers more than policyholders;
Theyd acted on the advice of the UKI sales person who said that if they cancelled 
their holiday before 11 March 2020, they wouldnt have been entitled to any 
settlement as at that point, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO) wasnt advising against travel;
The tour operator had also told them it was safe to travel. It had gone on to offer 
them a chance to re-take the holiday within 12 months. Had they taken up this option, 
travel restrictions would still have applied which meant they wouldnt have been in a 
position to travel. So they queried whether any cancellation costs wouldve been met 
at this point;
Their time abroad had been enforced while they waited for a return flight;
They felt it would be fairer for UKI to pay a proportionate amount for their 
transatlantic flight;
Other friends who couldnt travel on holidays had received full refunds or been able 
to travel later;
Their holiday had not been curtailed; itd all been cancelled due to the country they 
were in closing its borders.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr H and Ms R, I still think UKI has settled 
their claim fairly and Ill explain why.
Its important I make clear my role. I am independent and impartial of both parties and I 
make decisions based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, 
as Im required to do. I appreciate Mr H and Ms R feel my decision favours insurers rather 
than policyholders. But Id like to reassure them that Ive considered all of the evidence 
independently and impartially in reaching my decision.I understand Mr H and Ms R feel strongly that their trip was cancelled rather than curtailed. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I disagree. Mr H and Ms R had departed as 
planned; had taken a flight and were able to make use of some of their pre-booked 
arrangements. The terms of the policy say that cancellation cover ends at the point a 
policyholder reaches their departure point. Instead, Mr H and Ms Rs trip was cut short 
earlier than theyd planned and so I still find that it was appropriate for UKI to consider the 
claim under the Cutting Short your Trip section of the policy.
Mr H and Ms R say they called UKI ahead of travelling and that they were told if they 
cancelled their trip at that point, the claim wouldnt be covered. Their travel agent also told 
them theyd be fine to travel on 11 March 2020. The information Mr H and Ms R say they 
were given at this point seems to have been correct. There dont appear to have been 
border restrictions in the country they were due to travel to at the point they travelled and 
they were able to make use of some of their tour plans. So it doesnt seem natural disaster 
cover would apply at that point. And on 11 March 2020, there was no FCDO advice against 
travel abroad or for UK nationals abroad to return to the UK. This means I think its unlikely 
UKI wouldve agreed to pay a cancellation claim based on the situation on 11 March 2020.
Turning to the cost of the transatlantic flight, as Ive set out above, the policy only covers a 
policyholders financial losses. Mr H and Ms R didnt have to pay for their repatriation flight 
and therefore, they didnt incur any additional travel costs as a result of their early return. 
Theyd always have had to pay to return to the UK if the trip had gone as planned and whilst 
they ultimately flew by a different route, it didnt cost them any more to do so. Were I to direct 
UKI to pay any of the return flight costs, Id be placing Mr H and Ms R in a better financial 
position than theyd otherwise have been in. This simply isnt the purpose of insurance.
Mr H and Ms R have told us the tour operator offered them the chance to re-take the trip 
within 12 months and theyve asked us whether a cancellation claim in those circumstances 
would be covered. My role though is to consider what did happen, rather than speculate on 
things which couldve happened several months later. In this case, Mr H and Ms R chose not 
to re-book the tour and instead made a curtailment claim for their lost costs. And as Ive 
explained, I think UKI settled this claim fairly.
I do sympathise with Mr H and Ms Rs position, as I appreciate theyve been left out of 
pocket through no fault of their own. But based on the terms of the cover they held with UKI, 
I remain satisfied that UKI treated them fairly and settled the claim in accordance with the 
contract. So Im not directing UKI to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman