DRN-1423434
 
The complaint
Miss W complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
Miss W was given six short-term loans by Mr Lender between May 2012 and January 2018. 
A summary of her borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 08/05/2012 28/08/2012 1 £500.00 £657.00 3
2 20/11/2013 30/12/2013 1 £700.00 £910.00 1
3 22/08/2014 28/11/2014 1 £600.00 £780.00 2
4 04/01/2016 28/06/2016 6 £900.00 £324.00 0
5 24/10/2016 28/04/2017 6 £800.00 £351.73 0
6 03/01/2018 03/09/2018 12 £1,500.00 £328.94 1
 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender should have agreed to lend loans 1 and 2 to Miss W 
as proportionate checks would have shown she had borrowing with other short-term 
lenders.  But they didnt think Mr Lender had been wrong to give loans 3 to 6 to Miss W. 
Mr Lender disagreed and said the pattern indicated Miss W was borrowing as and when she 
needed funds. It also explained it carried out checks on Miss W each time she applied for a 
loan. These checks included affordability checks and reviewing information from credit 
reports. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has passed to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
There were breaks in Miss Ws borrowing from Mr Lender  some more significant than 
others. There was a gap of nearly three months between loan 1 and loan 2. And there was a 
further gap of around eight months between loans 2 and 3. And another more significant gap 
of 14 months between loans 3 and 4. Lastly there was a gap of nine months between loans 
5 and 6. I think it would be reasonable for Mr Lender to view these gaps as an indication that 
Miss Ws finances had stabilised after whatever the circumstances were that had caused her 
to take out the loans in the first place. So, I will look at Miss Ws borrowing in five separate 
lending chains. 
The first chain was made up of solely loan 1, the second chain was made up of solely of loan 
2, the third chain was just loan 3. The fourth chain consisted of loans 4 and 5. And loan six 
made up the fifth and last chain of lending. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender needed to do more before it lent Miss W loans 3 to 6. 
Miss W hasnt disagreed, so I wont be making any further findings on these loans because 
they no longer appear to be in dispute. But Ive kept these loans in mind when thinking about 
the overall borrowing relationship between Miss W and Mr Lender. Having carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint, Im partly upholding the complaint. 
Ill explain why. 
Chains one and two
These chains made up the first two loans Miss W was borrowing from Mr Lender but given 
the amount Miss W was borrowing plus interest, Sunny ought to have been looking to build a 
clearer picture about Miss Ws finances than it did before lending her either of these loans.
Had Mr Lender done proportionate checks for each loan, its likely to have found Miss W was 
borrowing from a lot of other short-term lenders and the repayments for these loans were 
increasing her monthly outgoings. This behaviour was mostly likely an indication that she 
was in a cycle of debt and was borrowing further to cover the hole that repaying her previous 
loans were leaving in her finances. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 1 and 2 and Mr Lender should put things right.
Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss W paid on loans 1 and 2;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 1 and 2 from Miss Ws credit file. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ws complaint. PDL Finance 
Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman