DRN-4331296
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) turned 
down her pet insurance claim and placed exclusions on her policy. 
What happened
In May 2021 Mrs B took out pet insurance with C&G. In 2022 her dog needed vet treatment 
for left foreleg weakness. But C&G declined Mrs Bs claim because it said the dogs 
condition was pre-existing under the policys terms. It referred to treatment to the dogs hips 
and an accident, both of which had happened before the policy had started.  
C&G also said that Mrs B should have told it about her dogs pre-existing conditions when 
she took out the policy. As it said this was a misrepresentation C&G added several specific 
medical exclusions to the policy, backdated to the May 2021 start date. 
Mrs B said shed not been asked specific questions about her dogs medical conditions and 
so could not have given inaccurate information. She provided C&G with evidence from her 
vet disputing that the dogs condition was pre-existing. C&G maintained its position. 
Because of the claim decision and the exclusions Mrs B decided to cancel the policy in April 
2023. She asked us to investigate her complaint. 
Our Investigator upheld Mrs Bs complaint. He thought Mrs Bs vets evidence was 
persuasive and supported that the dogs condition was not pre-existing under the policys 
terms. He said that C&G should pay the claim, subject to the policy limit and excess together 
with 8% simple interest and pay Mrs B £200 for her distress and inconvenience. He didnt 
think that C&G had shown that Mrs B had made a misrepresentation. As such, he concluded 
that C&G should remove the exclusions if Mrs B reinstated her policy. 
Mrs B accepted our Investigators conclusions but C&G did not. It provided evidence from its 
in-house vet in support of its position. Mrs Bs vet commented on that evidence and 
explained why he considered that the dogs condition had not been pre-existing or 
associated to any earlier treatment or entries in the medical records. 
Our Investigator said the new evidence did not change his view that the complaint should be 
upheld. As C&G did not agree the complaint has been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim
Industry rules require insurers to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably 
reject a claim. Ive taken this into account when considering how C&G has applied the policy 
terms in this case. 
Mrs Bs policy does not provide cover for pre-existing conditions. This is very common in pet 
insurance; insurers dont want to cover something thats already happened, since the aim of 
insurance is generally to protect against the risk of something happening in the future.
C&Gs policy terms exclude cover for Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to 
a Pre-Existing Condition. The policy defines the relevant terms as follows:
Pre-Existing Condition Means any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or 
Associated Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms 
of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Condition Means an Illness or Accidental Injury or any Symptoms or Clinical Signs of 
an Illness or Accidental Injury affecting your pet.
Associated Condition Means a Condition that is either a recurring Illness and/or 
Accidental Injury or Lump; or related to a previous Illness and/or Accidental Injury or 
Lump; or caused by a previous Illness and/or Accidental Injury or Lump. 
So the key issue is whether the treatment costs Mrs B claimed for related to something that 
had already started before she took out her policy. I will summarise what I consider to be the 
key points from the evidence given by C&Gs vet and by Mrs Bs vet. 
C&G has referred to entries in the dogs medical records from 2018 referring to hip dysplasia 
in both hips. C&Gs vet says that the dog was likely to develop osteoarthritis as a result. The 
vet also referred to a note in March 2021 saying the dog was slowing up - start of OA 
(osteoarthritis). So C&Gs vet considered osteoarthritis to be a pre-existing condition. 
Mrs Bs vet disputed C&Gs vets opinion and said the osteoarthritis is almost always 
secondary to another problem. In any event, he said there is no evidence that osteoarthritis 
in one joint initiates its development in another joint. He said there was also no evidence to 
link a hindlimb issue, such as hip dysplasia to osteoarthritis or other orthopaedic problems in 
the forelimbs. He said that C&Gs vets link between the hindlimb and forelimb issues was 
speculative and went further to say there was a zero link between hindlimb orthopaedic 
problems and the development of humeral intercondylar fissures (HIF) in the canine elbows 
 and it was HIL for which he had treated Mrs Bs dog. The entry about the dog slowing up 
and possible osteoarthritis was purely speculative and did not reference his forelimbs. 
C&Gs vet has also referred to an entry in July 2022 when Mrs B took her dog to be 
assessed for the forelimb lameness that is the subject of the claim. The entry mentions that 
the dog had ongoing lameness and stiffness elsewhere, having gained weight (which the vet 
said can worsen joint disease). The vet referred to a possible injury which occurred between 
June 2020 and June 2021, when the dog had fallen in a ravine (before the policy had been 
taken out). The vet said previous trauma to the forelimbs and hip dysplasia could cause 
osteoarthritis. 
Mrs Bs vet disagreed saying the reference to the fall in the ravine was vague, without 
specific timing. He had earlier said that the dogs treated condition of a stress fracture of the 
humerus would have produced pain and lameness had it been present previously. He 
repeated that hip dysplasia does not lead to arthritis or any other joint disease in the 
forelimbs. 
C&Gs vet went on to say that osteophytosis shown on the radiographs taken in 2022 show 
new bone formation which is usually in response to arthritis. The radiographs also showed a 
potential weakening or fissure at the humeral condyle, and a potential osteochondritis 
dissecans (OCD) lesion of the shoulder, with a CT scan required to investigate further.  C&Gs vet said the hip dysplasia, slowing down and stiffness together with joint supplements 
prescribed to Mrs Bs dog suggested he had osteoarthritis. The ravine fall trauma could have 
caused damage which predisposed arthritis development and osteoarthritis in Mrs Bs dog 
was a pre-existing condition. 
In response Mrs Bs vet said the radiographs showed osteophytosis of the elbow and the 
presence of fissures. There had been no elbow arthritis or chronic lameness noted before 
the May 2021 policy start date. The HIF is a chronic stress fracture and can cause persistent 
lameness, but this had not been noted in the dogs medical records before the policy started. 
In Mrs Bs vets opinion, it was likely the fissures occurred after that date. 
Mrs Bs vet added that the mild hip issues reported in 2018 had not required treatment and 
had no bearing on the claim. There was no hard evidence the dog had injured his elbows 
when falling down or had osteoarthritis in his elbows. Even if the dog had had osteoarthritis 
in the elbows this is separate to the development of HIF. 
Although I have summarised the vets remarks, I have considered and weighed all the 
evidence I have received. Having done so, I find Mrs Bs vets evidence to be more 
persuasive having been made after seeing and treating the dog. In addition, I find Mrs Bs 
vet to have provided persuasive evidence to explain why the rear hip dysplasia would not 
have caused problems with the forelimbs. Even if the dog had osteoarthritis (which was 
speculative) Mrs Bs vet has clearly explained why this would not be linked to the HIF, being 
the condition for which Mrs Bs dog had been treated and was the subject of the claim.
The reference to a fall in the ravine seems to me to have been an incidental remark made by 
Mrs B when her dog was being assessed for forelimb lameness. I think it is likely, on 
balance, that Mrs B would have taken her dog to the vet had she been concerned by the fall 
or any lasting injury to her dog, not least as she regularly took her dog to the vet for any 
noted issues. Mrs Bs vet said that the dog would have had pain and lameness had the 
stress fracture been present previously, but there is not any record of this in the clinical 
notes after May 2021.
As such, I dont find that C&G has shown that the dogs HIF was a pre-existing condition or 
an associated pre-existing condition. It follows that the fair outcome is for C&G to pay the 
claim, subject to the policy limit and any excess. As Mrs B has paid the vets bill, C&G must 
add simple interest to the settlement at the rate of 8% per year as set out below. 
The exclusions
C&G said that it had put several exclusions on the policy backdated to the policys start date 
of 1 May 2021. The exclusions were, in summary, for claims in respect of left fore trauma 
and associated conditions; all claims with respect to the hips and pelvis and all associated 
conditions; and all claims with respect to degenerative disease. 
The relevant law is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). In line with CIDRA, I would usually consider it fair for an insurer to apply a 
retrospective exclusion if its policyholder didnt take reasonable care in answering its clear 
questions when they bought the policy and the insurer can show it would have added the 
exclusion had it been given the information. 
In this case I dont consider C&G has shown that it asked Mrs B a clear relevant question 
that would have enabled her to tell it about her dogs previous medical history. Instead it 
says during the policy application it asked Mrs B to read and tick a box to confirm that she 
had read the assumptions and policy terms. I dont consider that an assumption is a clear question that would enable Mrs B to tell C&G 
about her dogs health. So I dont think C&G has shown that Mrs B failed to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. As a clear question was not asked it is not necessary 
for me to consider whether C&G would have offered the policy on different terms. 
It follows that I dont consider C&G was entitled to backdate the policy exclusion for claims 
with respect to the left fore trauma, hips and pelvis and degenerative disease, with the 
respective associated conditions to the policys start date. Mrs B cancelled the policy 
because of C&Gs response to the claim and the addition of the exclusions. If she decides to 
reinstate the policy then C&G must remove the exclusions with effect from the policys 
original start date of 1 May 2021. I think it is fair for C&G to reinstate the policy from the date 
it was cancelled, provided Mrs B requests the reinstatement within two months of the date of 
this final decision and pays the backdated premium that is due. 
Compensation 
I agree with the Investigator that Mrs B suffered distress and inconvenience when C&G 
decided not to pay her claim for her sizeable vets bill. I think £200 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Pay Mrs Bs claim for her dogs forelimb lameness (HIF) subject to the policy limit 
and any excess; and 
Pay interest on the resulting claim payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from 
the date Mrs B paid the vets fees until the date of settlement (subject to Mrs B 
providing evidence to C&G of the date she paid the fees); and
Agree to reinstate the policy with effect from the date it was cancelled and to remove 
any retrospective policy exclusion that it applied following the HIF claim, subject to 
Mrs B requesting reinstatement within two months of the date of this final decision 
and her paying the backdated premiums; and 
Pay Mrs B £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
If C&G considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest payment, it should let Mrs B know how much its taken off. If requested, it should 
also provide her with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so she can reclaim it from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to take the steps set out in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman