DRN-2931330
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) asked them to pay when they returned a car at the end of a lease.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs M and Mr M acquired their car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mrs M and Mr M responsible for keeping 
the car in good condition. They would be responsible for any damage if the car 
wasnt returned in the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. The BVRLA guidance says that scratches of over 
25mm are not acceptable. The ruler in the photograph of the front bumper helps to 
establish that the damage is in excess of 25mm. The sill cover is also broken and in 
excess of the industry guidelines. So, Im persuaded that there is evidence that would 
allow MBFS to fairly charge for the damage they have charged for.
Ive also considered the photographs of the front of the car that Mrs M and Mr M 
have provided. Im not persuaded by those images that there is evidence the damage 
wasnt present when the car was inspected. I say that because the angle the images 
were taken at doesnt make the damage easy to inspect.
Ive considered the charges that have been applied but I dont think the amount being 
charged is excessive and therefore unfair. The charges MBFS have made for the 
individual areas of damage appear broadly in line with similar charges Ive seen 
raised by their competitors.
Mrs M and Mr M have referred to several issues where they are concerned about the 
service provided by the dealership. Whilst MBFS are responsible for the actions of 
the dealership when they negotiate the finance agreement, they are not responsible 
for subsequent actions. Mrs M and Mr M complain about a scratch to the back of a 
seat that was caused by the dealership. Thats not an issue that I think would be fair 
to hold MBFS accountable for.
I understand that there was a delay of a couple of weeks before the final appraisal 
document was completed. But I think its much more likely that the damage was 
incurred in the years before the car was inspected, when Mrs M and Mr M were in 
possession of it, than in the relatively short time before the inspection was concluded.
So, I dont think there is sufficient evidence MBFS have been unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman