DRN-4072118
The complaint
Mr M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited failed to adequately repair a leak under 
his HomeCare policy. 
What happened
In July 2021, Mr M made a claim under his HomeCare policy for a leak. British Gas arranged 
for a third-party drainage and plumping company  who Ill refer to as D  to attend. D 
carried out a dye test and established that the leak was caused by a broken gully pot. This 
was replaced and D confirmed there were no further faults.
Approximately ten months later, Mr M noticed his worktop was sagging and there was 
damage to his kitchen sink doors. He looked under the floorboards and found water was 
collecting in the same place as before. So he contacted British Gas to advise that the leak 
hadnt been repaired properly.
British Gas initially said that workmanship was only guaranteed for 14 days. And as Mr Ms 
policy was no longer in place, it wouldnt be able to respond to a claim. Mr M disputed this, 
as his policy said both parts and workmanship were guaranteed for 12 months. British Gas 
then agreed to send D to inspect the leak. 
D attended in June 2022. They did a further dye test which showed the leak wasnt coming 
from the replaced gully. Instead, they said there was a leaking joint approximately half a 
metre from the property. And they said the internal damage to the kitchen was likely caused 
by failed sealant at the back of the kitchen sink. Based on this advice, British Gas said it 
wasnt responsible for the leak and advised Mr M to claim on his home insurance. 
Mr M complained that D had failed to repair the leak correctly in July 2021. He says that no 
CCTV was used initially, and that D must have guessed it was the gully leaking and missed 
the actual source of the leak. Mr M also disputes that the internal damage is due to failed 
sealant, but rather that the sealant has failed due to stream from the leak directly below it. 
British Gas maintained its position, so Mr M brought his complaint to our Service. But our 
Investigator didnt uphold it. He said there was no evidence to show the leak hadnt been 
repaired and that he considered it most likely any failed repairs as a result of water ingress 
wouldve presented themselves sooner than ten months.
Mr M didnt agree. He says that whilst he hasnt provided evidence to show the leak wasnt 
repaired, British Gas hasnt provided evidence that it was. He doesnt believe D are 
independent as they carried out the initial repair. And he questions whether its a 
coincidence that a second leak appeared in the exact same place as the first. Hes also 
unhappy that British Gas incorrectly informed him that workmanship was only guaranteed for 
14 days initially.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr M made a valid claim under his policy in 2021, which was accepted 
by British Gas and repair work was carried out to fix the leak. According to the HomeCare 
policy, both the work and parts  if found to be faulty  are covered by a guarantee. It says:
Twelve-month guarantee
We guarantee to repair or replace any faulty parts weve supplied, or fix any faulty 
work that weve done for twelve months from the date that we did the work. 
Mr M complains that the work carried out in 2021 was faulty; he thinks British Gas should 
repair the leak and subsequent damage caused to his property under the guarantee. To be 
clear, Im not a drainage or plumbing expert. So, to decide whether British Gas are 
responsible here I must rely on the evidence presented.
British Gas arranged for D to reattend the property and another dye test was carried out. 
They said, dye traced the gully and proved that the dye did not appear in the basement. As 
such, they were satisfied the works carried out to the gully were sufficient and the leak 
wasnt coming from what they consider to be the original source. 
Mr M believes the gully must not have been the original source, and that D failed to identify 
the leak correctly in 2021. But the information from Ds visits in 2021 show a dye test was 
completed both before and after the gully was replaced. And based on those results, it does 
appear this was the cause of the leak.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling about this complaint and his assertions that the 
leak has been ongoing for ten months under the floorboards, Im mindful that Mr M  like 
myself  is not an expert in this field. So without an experts opinion to support what hes 
saying, I can only speculate as to whether this is the case. 
Based on the information currently available, Im more persuaded by the expert evidence 
provided by D from both the visits in 2021 and again in 2022 which shows the gully was the 
cause of the leak and it was successfully repaired. Whilst Mr M questions the coincidence of 
a second leak in the same area, its plausible that that the leaking joint and / or failed sealant 
couldve occurred after the 2021 visit. As the evidence provided by D supports this, I cant 
fairly ask British Gas to take responsibility for the further leak. 
Mr M is also unhappy that British Gas initially said workmanship was only guaranteed for 14 
days. Hes provided evidence of this conversation and he wants our Service to comment on 
its failure to provide correct information; he feels he was lied to. 
Whilst I understand Mr M wants there to be consequences for British Gas, I must be clear 
that were not the regulators and it isnt my role to fine or punish a business. In addition, 
were not the courts but an informal alternative. Where a business has done something 
wrong or unfair, our role is to ensure the business puts the customer back in the position 
they wouldve been in had everything been done correctly. 
Sometimes things go wrong and inevitably this may cause a customer some distress and 
inconvenience. This doesnt mean the customer must be compensated in all circumstances. 
Instead, well look at the impact any errors had and decide whether compensation is 
warranted. In this case, British Gas did give Mr M incorrect information about the policys guarantee. But 
after Mr M objected, it sent D out to assess whether any parts or workmanship was faulty  
whereby putting Mr M back in the position he wouldve been in had everything been done 
correctly. So, whilst I dont doubt this error wouldve caused Mr M some distress and 
frustration, I dont think there was an impact here which would warrant a compensation 
award. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman