DRN-4031099
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard incorrectly set up 
repayment plans on his account, leading to incorrect entries on his credit file.
What happened
In summary, Mr Y said that Barclaycard incorrectly set up a repayment plan on his credit 
card account on multiple occasions. This caused issued with his credit file which Barclaycard 
said they had amended each time. However, a few months later while applying for a 
mortgage, Mr Y discovered a discrepancy on his credit file which he says affected his ability 
to get a mortgage.
Barclaycard apologised for the issues and initially offered £50, however Mr Y declined this. 
As a result, Barclaycard rescinded the offer. In the second final response letter they said 
they had credited £50 directly to his current account. 
Mr Y referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator felt Barclaycard had done 
enough to remedy the complaint. As Mr Y disagreed the complaint was referred to me. I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Im currently minded to direct Barclaycard to pay an additional £100 compensation, bringing 
the total to £150.  I wanted to share my thoughts to allow all parties to respond before 
issuing a final decision. 
There does not seem to be a question Barclaycard has made an error when setting up both 
of the repayment plans. I can see a contact note on file that acknowledges a member of staff 
did not set up a standing order as they had been asked to which, at least, caused the issue 
the second time round. While I acknowledge Barclaycard were quick to fix this issue, it would 
have been distressing for Mr Y to discover this and that it had affected his credit file. And he 
had to deal with inconvenience both times of contacting Barclaycard to rectify the issue and 
arrange for a new repayment plan to be set up on each occasion. 
Mr Y has provided a copy of his credit file from April 2022 which shows the incorrect entry 
after the two incidents described above. This shows Mr Y had a three-month late payment 
marker which should have appeared as a one-month late payment marker. And hes 
provided evidence of communications with a mortgage advisor in which this incorrect 
information was discussed and its removal was recommended. 
It should be noted that as Mr Y did not continue with his mortgage application, it isnt 
possible to know if the incorrect information would have affected the application. And I see 
there was other genuine adverse information on Mr Ys credit file which could have affected 
an application. Because of this, Im unable to consider any losses in connection with the 
mortgage. But I can consider that the process of applying for mortgages, even the 
information gathering stage, can be stressful. So, the incorrect information would have 
caused Mr Y additional stress during this time.
I can see that Barclaycard initially offered £50 in its first final response letter, but rescinded 
this offer when Mr Y did not accept it. It is unclear why this was not paid directly to his 
current account with Barclays, which is what they did with the second offer of £50, or why 
they chose to rescind this offer at a later date. Having carefully considered the information 
available to me so far, Im currently minded to direct Barclaycard to pay Mr Y an additional 
£100 compensation, which would bring the total paid to £150. I think this more accurately 
reflects the distress and inconvenience the situation as a whole has caused him. 
Mr Y did not respond to my provisional decision with any additional points or evidence for me 
to consider. 
Barclaycard responded and said that they had paid Mr Y an additional £50 in February 2021 
as part of the complaint. They also disagreed that they had rescinded the £50 compensation 
offer in the first final response letter. They therefore asked if the £100 already paid was 
enough. 
I explained that the £50 from February 2021 had not been mentioned before and my 
assessment had mainly focused on events after that point. As a result, I still felt an additional 
£100 was reasonable. And Barclaycard accepted this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr Y did not respond with any additional points or evidence for me to consider, and 
Barclaycard agreed to my recommendation as set out above, I see no reason to deviate 
from my provisional findings and I uphold this complaint in part.
My final decision
I now instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to pay Mr Y an additional £100 
compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience their actions caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman