DRN-4392411
Complaint
Miss H has complained about a credit card Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) provided to 
her. She says credit card as well as the limit increase were irresponsibly provided.
Background
Vanquis provided Miss H with a credit card with an initial limit of £250 in December 2021. 
Miss Hs credit limit was increased to £500 in August 2022. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss H and Vanquis had told us. And he thought 
Vanquis hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss H unfairly in relation to providing the 
credit card or increasing the credit limit. So he didnt recommend that Miss Hs complaint be 
upheld. 
Miss H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Hs complaint.
Vanquis needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Vanquis needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether         
Miss H could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Vanquis says it initially agreed to Miss Hs application after it obtained information on her 
income and carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Miss H 
would be able to make the low monthly repayments due for this credit card. Due to Miss Hs 
account being relatively well managed she was then offered a credit limit increase to £500. 
On the other hand Miss H says that she shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Whats important to note is that Miss H was provided with a revolving credit facility rather 
than a loan. This means that to start with Vanquis was required to understand whether a 
credit limit of £250 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than all in one 
go. And a credit limit of £250 required relatively small monthly payments in order to clear the 
full amount owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Vanquis credit check did indicate that Miss H had had previous difficulties with credit in the 
form of defaults and county court judgements (CCJ). But its fair to say that these were 
historic given that theyd occurred almost two years prior to this application. 
Its fair to say that Miss H did have an account that was in an arrangement to pay. But she 
also didnt have much in the way of active debts or commitments at the time of application. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Vanquis to rely on what 
Miss H said about her income and expenditure, particularly in light of the low monthly 
repayments that would be required to repay £250 within a reasonable period of time. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that the checks carried out before Miss H was initially 
provided with her credit card were reasonable and proportionate and Vanquis didnt act 
unfairly when opening Miss Hs account.
For the credit limit increase, it appears as though Vanquis relied on Miss Hs account having 
been managed well in the eight months or so since her account had been opened. In the first 
instance I should make it clear that it isnt immediately apparent to me how it would 
automatically be the case that a borrower can afford a higher amount off credit simply 
because they might not have defaulted on a lower amount.
Nonetheless, in this particular case, Im not necessarily persuaded that Miss Hs account 
management was as good as Vanquis is making out. I say this as it appears as though     
Miss H went over her £250 credit limit in July 2022. 
That said, its also fair to say that  Miss H brought her account up to date quickly. And, in my 
view, whats even more important here is that Miss H was making more than just the 
minimum payment  indeed she cleared the balance in full in April 2022 and made another 
significant payment before her August 2022 statement. So Miss Hs actions and repayment 
record did indicate that she might be able to make the payments on a higher credit limit. 
Im also mindful that although there wasnt anything in the way of any additional significant 
adverse information on the credit search Vanquis carried out, Miss H was nonetheless more 
indebted at this stage than she was when her initial card application was made. So I do think 
that there were some signs that Vanquis needed to monitor going forward.
However, given what Vanquis income and expenditure assessment showed, the amount of 
the likely increased monthly payments and Ive not been provided with anything that clearly 
contradicts Miss H having had the funds to make the increased payments, Im not persuaded 
that it was unfair or unreasonable for Vanquis to have offered the limit increase. And as this 
is the case, I dont think that it was irresponsible for Vanquis to have increased Miss Hs 
credit limit to £500 in August 2022 either.
So overall while I can understand Miss Hs sentiments, I dont think that Vanquis treated       
Miss H unfairly or unreasonably when providing her with her credit card or subsequently 
increasing her credit limit. And Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Miss H. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman