DRN-1044638
 The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (the Bank) blocked a 
transaction, which caused her to lose out on the cost of some important flights.
Mrs A is represented by her husband, Mr A in bringing her complaint. But for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to all submissions as being made by her directly.
What happened
Mrs A wished to book a flight urgently because her mother was ill. Mrs A found a flight on an 
internet site and tried to pay with her debit card. 
For security purposes an OTP was requested which Mrs A correctly entered but the payment 
was declined and the debit card blocked by the Bank.
Mr A then attempted to make the purchase but prices were rising. She rang the Bank and Mr 
A spoke to them about 15 minutes after the blocked transaction. The Bank said that as well 
as the OTP they had asked for further confirmation that the transaction was genuine. Mrs A 
thought this hadnt been received and wanted the Bank to cover any increased costs. The 
card was unblocked during this call. 
By this point, Mrs A says prices had now risen again and the cheapest option was now 
considerably more than the one she first tried to buy. This was with a different airline to 
another airport requiring a long taxi journey on arrival. Mrs A ended up buying this flight.     
Mrs A thinks the Bank should not have blocked the original transaction as the correct OTP 
was used. She wants the Bank to compensate her for the additional costs and 
inconvenience.
The Bank says it acted to prevent potential fraud because the transaction was identified as 
high risk. The Bank says the card was unblocked within 26 minutes (and within 14 minutes 
of the call being made to the Bank) and that the Bank is not responsible for any increased 
costs.
However the Bank did offer £30 in compensation as Mrs A felt she had received poor service 
during the call.
Mrs A referred the complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it. Having done 
so, they didnt uphold the complaint. They said that the Bank had acted reasonably in 
blocking a high risk transaction and that the Bank was not responsible for price fluctuations. 
Mrs A disagrees with this view and it has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and whyI have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
Banks have a responsibility to help prevent fraud. To do this they will often have various 
security measures in place to identify potentially suspicious transactions to protect 
customers and themselves.
The terms and conditions of Mrs As account here cover this and confirm the Bank can 
refuse to make a payment if:
the payment seems unusual compared to the way you would normally use your 
account, in which case we may investigate further, for example by calling you  
Thats what the Bank has done here. They have explained that their system flagged up the 
transaction as being at a high risk of fraud as it was outside Mrs As normal use as it was 
much larger than her usual purchases. It was also a card holder not present payment and 
the merchant was outside the UK which could both indicate a potentially suspicious 
transaction.
This generated the OTP sent to Mrs A mobile phone. When Mr A rang the Bank to query 
why the payment had not gone through they advised that as a further security measure they 
had sent a text message to a different phone number. This asked for confirmation that the 
payment was being requested by Mrs A and was genuine. This is an important security 
measure and one which I think the Bank was entitled to use here.
Mr A confirmed that this was his phone number but was uncertain as to whether a text was 
received and he questioned why it was his number on the Banks system. But this number 
must have been provided by Mr A, or Mrs A for the Bank to hold it. So the Bank followed the 
procedure in the terms and conditions by contacting the number held to verify the payment. 
But there was no response. 
As the Bank was unable to complete this extra security measure, they stopped the 
transaction even though the OTP code had been entered and blocked the card.
The card was unblocked promptly once Mr & Mrs A contacted the Bank and completed the 
necessary security a short time later and she was able to use it to book a flight. It is 
unfortunate that the price of flights increased or the flight became unavailable and as Mrs A 
wanted to travel the next day. I appreciate that this would have been distressing for her.
But its not unreasonable for the Bank to block a high risk transaction if security requirements 
are not met. This will of course mean that in situations like this one, customers like Mrs A are 
inevitably inconvenienced. But that isnt to say that the Bank acted unfairly.
I say this because, ultimately, the Bank was entitled to block the transaction and ask for 
further information about it. I think it dealt with the situation as quickly as it could too. Its 
unfortunate that the flights increased in price as much as they did in this time, but I dont 
think its fair to hold the Bank responsible for these additional costs. The Bank offered £30 
for what Mrs A said was poor service. That seems fair to me. Mrs A should contact the 
business directly if it hasnt paid this already and she wants to now accept it. But I cant tell 
the Bank to do any more here. 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman