DRN-2439461
The complaint
Mr I complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Premier Benefit Solutions 
Limited (Premier) over the possible transfer of his deferred Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS) benefits. He says, as a result of Premiers decision not to facilitate the transfer, hes 
paid an unnecessary tax bill by withdrawing all the benefits as a lump sum. 
What happened
Mr I had three years service in an OPS from 1986 to 1989.  In August 2019, when he was 
age 59, Mr I approached Premier to discuss his retirement options as he was considering 
transferring the OPS benefits. During his exchanges with Premier Mr I set out his reasons for 
wanting to transfer. He explained about a new business venture hed set up selling quality 
gift products and wanted to increase his stock levels. He thought by transferring his pension 
fund into a self invested personal pension (SIPP) he would then be able to use those funds 
directly to grow his business. He said that, as he didnt plan to retire, and had other assets to 
fund his retirement  this would be the best use of his OPS benefits. 
A cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Is OPS benefits was obtained which showed 
a value of £42,079 with an expiry date of 22 November 2019. So Premier compiled a 
pension transfer report to see if a transfer was in his best interests. It concluded that it would 
cost Mr I an additional £25,070 to match the benefits from the OPS, using an investment 
backed pension, at age 60. It said it wasnt therefore in his best interests to transfer. It further 
noted that Mr I had very little other secure retirement income and said there was no 
guarantee that his new business would grow and therefore he could lose the relatively low 
level of retirement income he had.
But Mr I didnt agree with the recommendation and so in November 2019 he complained to 
Premier. He said the report was flawed and biased and that he would have been better off 
transferring the funds and investing into his business. But Premier didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said it thought its advice had been appropriate and was based on the 
information it had gathered and knew about Mr I. It didnt think it was in his best interests to 
transfer his OPS benefits.  
Mr I asked Premier to change its advice and provide a recommendation to transfer. He said 
he wanted to be treated as an insistent client. But Premier said it wouldnt change its advice 
as it believed it was suitable. It said it didnt accept insistent clients and told Mr I he was 
free to approach the pension scheme trustees with its signed declaration for providing 
advice.
The scheme trustees said that Mr I could take his OPS benefits on the grounds of triviality 
and that he could take 25% of his then £43,786.50 fund tax free with the residual fund 
subject to tax at his normal rate. This meant Mr I paid tax of £6,567.80.
So Mr I, who was unhappy with Premiers response, and now had to make an income tax 
payment to get his money, brought his complaint to us. Initially one of our investigators 
thought this was a complaint we couldnt consider, but following a further review he thought 
we could look at it as it was in relation to advice given to Mr I in relation to his personal 
circumstances  not his profession or trade. 
And Premier didnt object to this outcome, so the investigator looked into Mr Is complaint but 
didnt think it should be upheld. He said that the regulators guidance was that a starting 
position for all firms advising on such transfers was that they arent generally considered to 
be in a customers best interest.  In this case Premier concluded that it would require Mr I to 
need a further £25,070 to be able to provide the same benefits after transferring than he 
would get from his OPS benefits. So the investigator thought it wasnt in Mr Is best interest 
to transfer and that the advice was suitable. 
He also pointed out that Mr I could have transferred the benefits himself directly  having 
received financial advice as required. And he said that if Mr I had done that, he would still 
have had to pay tax on his withdrawals above the tax free cash amount, in accordance with 
pension rules.   
But Mr I didnt agree. He still thought that Premier should have facilitated the transfer as it 
was in line with his objectives. He wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so 
its been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigators assessment. I know this isnt the outcome 
Mr I hoped for and Ive seen how strongly he feels that Premier should have facilitated his 
OPS transfer  so Ill explain my reasons.
Should Premier simply have transacted Mr Is transfer?
Premiers pension transfer report stated that its purpose was to provide information, 
regarding the possible transfer of your benefits provided by the OPS to an alternative 
arrangement. This analysis does not, on its own, show whether or not transferring your 
benefits is advisable, as that also depends on many other factors, such as your attitude to 
risk, your personal circumstances and your objectives. It does, however, give an indication of 
the likelihood of being able to match or exceed the benefits provided by your existing 
scheme with a transfer to an alternative plan
So I think Premier had set out its intention to utilise the analysis in conjunction with its own 
views on whether the transfer was in Mr Is best interest. There were no guarantees about 
the outcome of the process, simply that it would assess whether it was appropriate for Mr I to 
transfer, based on its analysis. 
And I think thats what Premier did here. It gathered information from Mr I to understand his 
circumstances and objectives, fully appreciating his view that it would be better for him to 
invest his pension funds into his new business. It then provided a report which concluded 
that Mr I would be better served by remaining within the OPS.
  
Ive seen how Premier noted Mr Is objectives with regards to his business and I think it took 
them into consideration when compiling its report and making its recommendations. 
But that doesnt mean that Premier had to focus solely on those objectives  its requirement 
here was to provide an independent, professional recommendation. I know Mr I will say that 
his objective was the most important factor when making a recommendation and Ive seen 
how strongly he feels that he would have got the most from his pension fund by investing it directly into his business. But Mr I engaged Premier to give him a fair analysis of what was in 
his in best interests, not simply to carry out his preferred outcome, and I think Premier has 
demonstrated its desire to do that. It doesnt follow that Mr Is view of what should have 
happened was the most suitable outcome and Premier has said that it doesnt deal with 
insistent clients  so it wasnt prepared simply to take Mr Is instructions here.
So, I dont think Premier should simply have carried out Mr Is preference to transfer the 
funds without conducting its analysis. But I have gone on to consider the suitability of its 
advice.
The suitability of the advice
Premier said it didnt recommend that Mr I transferred his benefits for four main reasons.
This was Mr Is only source of secure income going forward. It didnt think he had the 
capacity to lose that income which would be at a higher risk if invested into Mr Is 
business.
Mr I hadnt demonstrated any previous investment experience through an attitude to 
risk (ATR) questionnaire which had been completed.
It would cost considerably more to secure the same income as the OPS by 
transferring. There was little or no benefit for Mr I to worsen his position.
There were no guarantees that investing in his business would provide Mr I with 
greater growth and the risk involved was too high according to his capacity for loss 
and ATR.  
However, Mr I says he isnt going to retire and the amount of income hed receive from his 
OPS would not make a significant difference to his retirement  the funding of which will be 
met by his other assets. And he says one of his biggest assets is likely to be a successful 
business, providing him with an income, which he thought needed to be supported with the 
injection of his pension funds. So Ive looked at the fact find that was conducted as well as 
the suitability report that was subsequently issued.
Within the report I can see that Premier clearly set out Mr Is objectives, which are consistent 
with what Mr I has told us. So, Im satisfied that Premier listened to Mr I when he explained 
his objectives and had taken them into consideration when undertaking its analysis. 
And looking at the suitability report/pension transfer report it stated that to match the CETV 
of £42,079 would require an additional £25,070 just to provide the same benefits under a 
personal pension. I think it would be difficult not to recommend against the transfer with that 
information. Whilst there were obviously a number of factors that needed to be considered 
when deciding whether to transfer, in my view the most important factor would have been 
the retirement income that could be provided from the OPS or a personal pension 
alternative. And the cost to replace the benefits on the open market illustrated in no 
uncertain terms what Mr I would have been relinquishing. 
And looking at the other reasons it gave, I dont think the recommendation Premier made 
was unsuitable. I know Mr I has countered the points about his retirement income and that 
the pension income would be insignificant to him and was best served invested into his 
business, but I think Premier was entitled to reach the conclusion that it did, based on the 
information it gathered. 
The regulators default position on OPS transfers is that advice should be not to transfer, 
unless there are compelling reasons to do so. I havent seen any evidence that 
Mr Is objectives, important as they were to him, were compelling. Theres no evidence to 
show that Mr Is business would guarantee greater returns on his funds, and in the absence of such evidence I dont think that Premier could have concluded it was suitable for him to 
transfer  especially if he intended to invest in his (new) business. So I dont think Premiers 
recommendation was unsuitable.
But even if I am wrong about Premiers advice here, Mr I still had the option of taking the 
completed advice form and asking the trustees of the OPS to transfer the benefits. And he 
could have transferred them to a SIPP himself  there are a number of SIPPs which are 
promoted as suitable for individual investors to use. If Mr I had then transferred his funds, he 
wouldnt have paid any tax until he decided to withdraw funds above and beyond his 25% 
tax free allowance. 
But Mr I has been consistent in saying that he wanted to invest the money into his business 
as he thought it would provide greater growth and benefit to him. In his complaint letter to 
Premier, in which he set out the reasons that its recommendation not to transfer was 
incorrect, he explained that he had considerable previous investment experience. He said he 
was a successful business owner who would be unlikely to retire and would most likely be 
able to provide higher income levels from the pension funds if he invested them into his 
business, than what Premier said he would achieve from his existing pension benefits.
So, I think Mr I would always have used all or most of that funds for that purpose and would 
always have paid tax at his marginal rate on the taxable 75% of the fund  regardless of 
whether hed done that himself or whether Premier had made a recommendation to transfer 
the benefits into a SIPP. Either way its more likely than not Mr I would then have used the 
funds to finance his business.  
My final decision
For the reasons that I have given I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman