DRN-3612437
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC have unfairly declined to refund over £7,000 he lost as 
part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr M authorised the disputed payments he made to Moonpay 
using his Metro Bank debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on 
to the scammers from his crypto wallet). The payments were requested by him using 
his legitimate security credentials provided by Metro Bank, and the starting position is 
that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Metro Bank should have done more to prevent 
Mr M from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a 
particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr M has lost over £7,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character 
transaction. It was spread over four separate smaller increments which, in my 
judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character, such 
that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that he might have 
been at risk of falling victim to a scam. I can see that in the 12 months prior, Mr M 
had made transactions of over £1,000, (for example, £1,500 was paid out of his 
account on 4 June 2020). So, the payments he made to Moonpay were not of such 
an amount that they would represent a significant deviation from the way Mr Ms 
account had previously been run. 
I also acknowledge there were occasions where more than one payment was made 
in the same day to Moonpay, such as two payments being made on 3 February 
2021. Several payments being made in quick succession can often be indicative of 
fraudulent activity. However, two payments alone cannot reasonably constitute a 
series of payments being made in quick succession. The two payments Mr M made 
on 3 February 2021 also only totaled around £3,600, which cumulatively wouldnt 
have appeared overly unusual for an amount to be spent in one day either. The funds 
were also sent to a legitimate cryptocurrency platform, so there would have been no 
cause for Metro Bank to intervene on the basis of the payee being featured on a 
scam watchlist either. 
So, having considered the payments Mr M made to Moonpay, Im not persuaded 
there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered Metro Banks fraud 
monitoring systems, or that would have indicated he was in the process of being 
scammed. 
Ive also thought about whether Metro Bank could have done more to recover the 
funds after Mr M reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be 
recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these 
circumstances, Mr M used his debit card to pay a legitimate crypto-exchange 
platform before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he 
wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances 
because the company he paid had provided the services as intended (i.e. the 
purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think Metro Bank were under any 
obligation to raise a chargeback for Mr M either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr M, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Metro Bank liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman