DRN-3492332
The complaint
Mr H complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds (Acromas) handling of a claim 
and refusal to pay for the cost of repairs under his roadside assistance policy.  
What happened
In March 2021 Mr H noticed an oil leak coming from his car. He called Acromas and it sent 
an engineer to inspect the problem. Mr H says he asked the engineer to wear a face mask, 
but he refused. Because of this the inspection didnt proceed.
Mr H says he spoke to a specialist engineer for his make of car. He was told this was the 
result of a common fault following an oil change. Mr H confirms that his car had a service, 
which included an oil change, and this took place shortly before the leak occurred. He says 
Acromas refused to deal with the problem, and he paid for the repairs himself. 
Acromas says it checked Mr Hs MOT information and found an oil leak had been identified 
prior to his call-out. It says his policy terms dont cover faults that have been identified as 
part of an MOT. It says Mr H is required to have the fault repaired at his expense. Acromas 
also says its engineer acted in-line with government guidelines as it wasnt mandatory to 
wear a face mask whilst attending Mr Hs vehicle. 
Mr H didnt think this was fair. He says the location of the minor leak wasnt identified in the 
MOT and he didnt notice any evidence of oil leaking prior to the service. After the service 
the oil leak was severe, resulting in large amounts of oil being discharged when driving and 
when parked outside his home. As Acromas didnt alter its decision Mr H referred his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought the terms of the policy were clear 
that faults highlighted during an MOT werent covered. And there had been an oil leak 
identified in a previous MOT that hadnt been repaired by Mr H. She thought Acromass 
decision was reasonable given its explanation that oil leaks get worse over time. And only 
one leak had been identified by the engineers Mr H had instructed. 
Mr H didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I understand that this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mr Hs policy provides breakdown repair cover in the event of a breakdown, subject to 
exclusions which it sets out in the policy terms document. Acromas says the oil leak it was 
called out to repair had been identified during a previous MOT. 
I have read the policy terms specific to Mr Hs policy to understand the exclusion Acromas 
has relied on here to decline to arrange, or pay for, the repairs. The terms say:
General Exclusions (This policy will not cover):
Any costs for repairs following a Mechanical or Electrical Failure if: 
The fault has been identified to You as part of either regular maintenance, MOT or at the 
point of another repair.
I have also seen a copy of the information from Mr Hs last MOT before the breakdown, 
which was in July 2020. This information under, advisories says:
Oil leak, but not excessive.
 Based on this information, Mr H was made aware of an oil leak several months prior to 
contacting Acromas. I havent seen any information to show that this leak was investigated 
further or repaired. 
I have thought about Mr Hs comments that he didnt notice an oil leak from his car after the 
MOT. It wasnt until his car was serviced in March 2021 that a significant leak occurred. I 
have also considered the information he provided from the garage specialising in his make 
of car. This says:
Carried out diagnostics check for oil leak/explained to customer that this is a common fault 
that sometimes can occur after a service increased oil pressure from oil change can result in 
the pushing out of the rubber core plug behind the flywheel.  
Mr H has supplied an invoice from a different garage showing work that was done to carry 
out repairs. He explains the specialist garage wasnt available to carry out this work. 
We asked Acromas to provide its comments on this information. It provided a response from 
its technical advisor to say it had contacted the garage who carried out the MOT and it 
advised there had been an oil leak from the rear crank shaft seal behind the gear box. It 
says that Mr H confirmed to it that he didnt arrange for a repair as this leak was only an 
advisory on the MOT. 
In its response Acromas says the reply from Mr Hs specialist garage provides no evidence 
that the oil leak isnt that advised on the MOT. This shows the vehicle has an oil leak caused 
by a common fault which can be exacerbated after vehicles have been serviced. It says as 
vehicles are serviced annually the leak may have been caused by the service prior to the 
MOT in July 2020, albeit it says this is speculation. 
Acromas summarises its technical advisors view to say:
As no repairs have been carried out to rectify the oil leak, and no other oil leaks are present 
on the vehicle, we can say with certainty, that the oil leak identified on the MOT in July 2020 
is the oil leak that caused Mr [H] to breakdown The fact that this has been caused by a 
common fault after servicing doesnt change the fact that is been advised as part of an MOT 
and has been present on the vehicle for some time. It is also a fault Mr [H] has been made 
aware of as per the MOT advisory.
I understand Mr H has strong views that the oil leak he contacted Acromas about isnt linked 
to the leak advised on his 2020 MOT. But having considered all the evidence, including the 
expert opinion provided by Mr H, I think the opinion provided by Acromass expert is persuasive in linking the MOT oil leak with the later leak. I dont think Mr H has reasonably 
shown that the two are separate or that the exclusion relied on by Acromas cant be applied 
in this instance.
Ive also considered Mr Hs concern that Acromass roadside engineer refused to wear a 
face mask when asked to do so. 
At the time of the engineers visit, the government legislation regarding face coverings was 
set out in: The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Wearing of Face Covering in a Relevant 
Place) (England) Regulations 2020. 
Acromas says at the time it wasnt mandatory for its engineer to wear a face mask whilst 
attending to his vehicle. From what I understand the car was parked outside. I acknowledge 
Mr H asked the engineer to wear a mask  and because he refused the inspection didnt 
take place. Im sorry Mr H found this frustrating, but I dont think its been shown that it was a 
requirement to wear a face mask in these circumstances.    
In considering all of this, I dont think Acromas treated Mr H unfairly, when relying on its 
policy terms and declining his claim for a repair. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman