DRN-2918319
The complaint
Mrs D complains about how Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) records the payment of 
interest into her account on online banking.
Mrs D is represented by her brother-in-law in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer 
to all submissions as being made by Mrs D directly.
What happened
Mrs D holds an interest earning Liquid Gold account with Halifax. She opened this account in 
around 2003 and was issued with a passbook to enable her to access the account. The 
account is a passbook-based account, which is designed to be used in branch.
On 18 January 2021, Mrs D enrolled for online banking so she could access her account 
without having to attend a branch, which she hadnt been able to do for some time due to the 
covid-19 pandemic. When Mrs D accessed her account online, she saw money had been 
crediting her account. But she was concerned she hadnt received interest for some time. 
Mrs D said she sent a letter of complaint to Halifax on 19 January 2021 about interest 
payments being outstanding. But she said she received no response to her complaint. And, 
on 19 March 2021, she referred her concerns to our service.
When Halifax was approached by our investigator to comment on Mrs Ds concerns it stated 
that it had no record of receiving her complaint letter. Our investigator therefore asked 
Halifax to investigate and respond to Mrs Ds complaint before our service reached a 
decision on the outcome of the concerns that shed referred to us.
After Halifax investigated Mrs Ds complaint it issued its final response, dated 27 March 
2021. Within its final response, Halifax explained that it had credited Mrs Ds account with 
interest each year. It agreed there was no payment description showing on Mrs Ds online 
account confirming that the source of the payment was interest. But it stated this was 
because Mrs D held an old passbook account  it said the passbook was used to record 
payment information. And it stated this information couldnt be recorded in full online and the 
passbook could be updated in branch with the full information about Mrs Ds transactions. 
Mrs D was dissatisfied with Halifaxs response to her complaint. While she accepted that 
interest had been correctly paid, she remained unhappy that Halifax wasnt able to label the 
credits as interest to show clearly that this was what the credit was. She wanted Halifax to 
individually identify the interest payments on her online banking. And she asked our service 
to continue to investigate her complaint and award compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she said shed experienced. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. But they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They werent persuaded that Halifax had treated Mrs D unfairly. So, they didnt 
tell it to do anything further to resolve her complaint. But Mrs D disagreed with our 
investigators view of her complaint and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs D experienced here. I can see how strongly she 
feels about her complaint and I appreciate the reason why shes brought it to our service. My 
role is to assess whether I think Halifax made a mistake, or treated Mrs D unfairly, such that 
it needs to now put things right.  
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of this complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy 
by this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mrs D and Halifax, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is 
relevant to decide this complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Halifax has provided evidence to our service, which shows that in 2011 it withdrew the Liquid 
Gold account. As I set out in the background to this complaint, this account is a passbook-
based account designed to be used in branch. The intention of the passbook is to enable a 
customer to transact on their account. It also allows for the origin of transactions to be clearly 
recorded. So, a customer is able to easily distinguish between a credit from an external 
source and an interest payment from Halifax. 
I fully appreciate the reasons why Mrs D registered for online banking  particularly 
considering the difficulties she may have experienced in attending her branch during the 
pandemic. And I can appreciate why she may have expected the same information to show 
online as would have shown in her passbook in relation to money crediting her account. But 
this isnt possible. As Halifax has explained, while Mrs Ds passbook account can be viewed 
online, full information about the source of transactions isnt available because its systems 
dont have the function to allow full information about payments to the account to be viewed 
online. So, the origin of a payment can only be viewed in branch.
I can understand the inconvenience that a customer may experience when they log onto 
their online banking and cannot see the source of money crediting their account. Mrs D told 
our service that the only other credit she had been receiving into her account had been child 
benefit  so she had no other way of knowing that the smaller credits were for interest. In 
those circumstances I recognise that it may have been helpful for her to be able to see that 
interest was also crediting her account. But were not the regulator of banks. So, we cant tell 
a business what information to include on online banking or make the changes that Mrs D 
would like.
I can see that Halifax informed Mrs D that, if she wishes to obtain full information about her 
transactions, shed need to visit a branch and update her passbook. I think that was good 
advice. I say this because this guidance was intended to assist Mrs D with the issues she 
was complaining about and, if she attends her branch, shell be able to have information 
about interest payments recorded in her passbook. I cant reasonably find that Halifax ought 
to have done anything further in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has told our investigator that she experienced distress and inconvenience as a result 
of not being able to see interest crediting her account. And shes asked our service to award 
compensation to reflect her trouble and upset. I recognise that Mrs D may have spent a 
considerable amount of time in bringing her complaint and in trying to resolve matters with 
Halifax. But, while I appreciate that this has taken up a lot of everyones time, a complaint will inevitably involve a degree of distress and inconvenience. And I havent seen an error on 
the part of Halifax that would warrant an award of compensation.
Mrs D has concerns about the fact that she didnt receive a response to her complaint. But 
Halifax has checked its records and hasnt found any evidence that it received Mrs Ds letter 
of complaint. I dont dispute what Mrs D has said about posting her complaint letter in mid-
January 2021. And I also accept what Halifax has said about not receiving her letter. It may 
be that there were problems with the post, meaning that Mrs Ds letter went undelivered. It 
wouldnt be fair if I was critical of Halifax for not responding to a complaint letter it didnt 
receive. And I can see that once it was made aware of Mrs Ds complaint it provided a final 
response within a week. Im satisfied that this indicates it promptly investigated what had 
happened and took matters seriously.
I know that Mrs D will be disappointed by this decision. But Im satisfied that Halifax has 
acted fairly and reasonably. I havent seen evidence that demonstrates it made an error 
here. So, I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Halifax to do anything further to 
resolve it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman