DRN-3986144
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont refund money she lost from a payment shed 
sent to pay for a medical procedure.
What happened
Ms O paid a company (Ill refer to as M) £400 for a medical procedure. She sent the 
payment as a bank transfer from her Santander account.
However before the date of the procedure Ms O was contacted by M. The company said that 
the consultant who was scheduled to carry out the procedure had left the company. She was 
told M could no longer carry out what she had paid for. Ms O decided not to go ahead and 
asked M to refund her.
But Ms O received half the money shed paid. This was credited into her bank account. She 
was unable to get M to refund more than this. 
Ms O reported the matter to Santander. It looked into the payment but didnt refund her for 
the missing £200. Because Ms O had paid by bank transfer rather than a card payment the 
bank could only recover her payment if it had been a criminal scam or a fraud. Santander 
said that the payment had been made to what looked to be a legitimate company and while 
Ms O might have a claim against M, this would be a civil dispute not a scam.
Ms O referred the matter to our service, but one of our Investigators didnt uphold her 
complaint. They agreed with Santander that the matter was a civil dispute, so the bank had 
no obligation to provide a refund to her.
Ms O disagreed. Shed seen a number of other people reporting similar problems with M 
online, so thought this would qualify as a scam and she should be reimbursed. Shed looked 
up the company on the Companies House register and visited the registered address for M. 
But the address wasnt a clinic, again suggesting this wasnt genuine.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Ms O has paid money for a procedure and not received what she paid for. She 
was put in a position where M said it couldnt deliver the procedure shed specifically asked 
for. That meant she had little choice but to cancel and look for a different company to use.
 
Receiving half the money back is something Ms terms say it will do if their customer 
cancels, but here M couldnt fulfil what Ms had paid for - so this does seem an unfair 
application of the terms and conditions at the very least. I can see shes tried to get her 
money back and I understand this has been a very stressful experience for her.
So arguably M has breached its contract with Ms O, or at the very least treated her badly. 
But Im not deciding a dispute between Ms O and M  I dont have the power to look into a 
complaint about M. My role is limited to deciding the dispute between Ms O and Santander. 
Of course, Santander didnt sell Ms O the procedure, and I cant hold it responsible for any 
breach of contract or other failings on Ms part. As a starting point in law Ms O is responsible 
for payments shes instructed Santander to make for her. Unfortunately, theres little 
protection available for payments, like this one, made by bank transfer.
In many circumstances a card payment can make it possible to claim against a breach of 
contract (amongst other things). But that a claim like that cant be made against the bank  
when the payment was sent by bank transfer. Then it will only be possible to bring a that 
claim against the business itself (in other words against M). Here Ms O sent the payment by 
bank transfer.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) does provide 
some protection to victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams. But it excludes civil 
disputes. So, the question I need to decide is whether M was acting fraudulently and 
deceived Ms O into giving her money. Or, whether this is simply a matter of M breaching its 
contract with Ms O. Specifically, that means deciding whether the evidence shows it is most 
likely that M set out to defraud Ms O with criminal intent. That is a high bar to meet.
Its important to note that it isnt for Santander to investigate M, neither does it need to prove 
that M wasnt operating fraudulently. It is for Ms O to provide evidence to support those 
allegations. 
Ms O points out that Ms registered address is not that of a clinic for example. It appears to 
be the companys accountants address. But in my experience it isnt unusual for companies 
to use an accountants address for their business correspondence or registered address. So 
I dont think this necessarily points to the business being fraudulent.
Ms O has pointed to a number of other people who have related similar stories to her own. 
But, that doesnt prove M was acting fraudulently. Its unfortunately common that when 
something goes wrong at a business (such as a consultant leaving) the business may be 
unable to fulfil outstanding customer orders and have unpaid debts. 
My online research, including on a major review site, suggest M has fulfilled orders in the 
past. On one site in particular, there appear to be over 200 positive reviews of M. I dont 
doubt that is part of why Ms O decided to go ahead with M in the first place. These reviews 
doesnt suggest that M hasnt been operating legitimately  at least in the past.
On balance I think there is enough evidence to show M was operating legitimately at least at 
some point. That means I need to decide whether there is enough evidence that, prior to 
Ms O making her payment, it stopped being a legitimate business and began to take 
customer money without having any intention of providing the procedures that were paid for. 
But I havent seen compelling evidence to show that. What happened to Ms O was wrong, 
but it could simply have been a very badly run business and with poor customer service. The 
evidence just doesnt show that the business intended to take her money from the outset 
with no intent of fulfilling the arrangement  so I cant safely draw that conclusion.
Overall, the evidence doesnt support a finding that M was operating fraudulently. And that 
means that Santander arent responsible for Ms Os loss and the bank had no obligation or 
ability to try and recover her money. Neither can I fairly require it to apply the CRM Code. In saying all of this, I dont underestimate the impact this whole matter has had on Ms O  I 
am sorry she has lost out seemingly through no fault of her own. But its simply the case that 
I dont think Santander was at fault here and I cant fairly tell it to pay her for the money shes 
lost.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman