DRN-4381237
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled his claim made on 
his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr Hs car broke down after he had refuelled it. He took the car to a dealers garage and 
made a claim to Admiral. But he was unhappy that Admiral caused delays in repairing his 
car and with its communication with him. He said he wasnt provided with a courtesy car until 
he chased for one. He thinks he shouldnt have to pay for tax, insurance and finance while 
hes been without the car. He wants compensation for his trouble and upset and his car to be 
repaired. 
Admiral agreed that it had caused avoidable delays in the claim and its communication could 
have been better. It said Mr H wasnt entitled to a courtesy car until repairs had been 
authorised and his car was at the repairers. But it paid Mr H £140 for loss of use due to its 
delays as a gesture of goodwill. It also paid Mr H £435 compensation for his trouble and 
upset and £25 as an apology for its late response to his complaint. But Mr H remained 
unhappy. He wanted the claim resolved and compensation for his stress.  
Our Investigator thought Admiral hadnt treated Mr H fairly, but he thought its resolution of 
his complaint was fair and reasonable. He thought Admiral had caused some avoidable 
delays at the start of the claim and its communication could have been better. But he thought 
it had provided a courtesy car before the repairs were authorised and also provided a 
payment of £140 for loss of use that wasnt required by the policys terms and conditions. He 
thought Admirals £435 compensation for trouble and upset and £25 for its late response to 
Mr Hs complaint was fair and reasonable. 
Mr H replied that he was held at fault for a garage providing dirty fuel and his premiums had 
doubled due to this. He said after six months his car had now been repaired, but further 
damage had been caused by the repairer. He said hed spent hours managing the claim and 
Admirals compensation didnt recognise this or the stress it had caused.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr Hs car has now been repaired. But he had a long wait for this to be done 
and I can understand that this must have been frustrating and stressful for him. Mr H has 
raised a number of concerns about how Admiral handled his claim. 
But, as our Investigator has explained, I can only consider those where Admiral has had a 
chance to provide a response. Mr H said he had further responses from Admiral since 4 April 
2023. But I havent seen those, and Admiral has said it intends to respond to them as 
separate complaints. So I cant consider those here.
Mr H has also raised concerns about how our service should support him. But were not a 
consumer rights body or a consumer champion. And were not the regulator. We are an 
alternative dispute resolution body. And I can review how Admiral has responded to Mr Hs 
complaints in keeping with his policys terms and conditions, with the relevant laws and 
regulations in mind and whether this has been fair and reasonable. 
So Ive considered here how Admiral responded to Mr Hs complaints that he then brought to 
us up to its response on 4 April 2023. 
Admiral didnt uphold all of Mr Hs complaint points. Mr H said hed been without a courtesy 
car until he asked for one. But I can see that his policy provides for a courtesy car only when 
repairs have been authorised and the car is with the approved repairer. Admiral provided a 
courtesy car before the repairs began and, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered Mr H £140 
compensation for 14 days loss of use in recognition of its delays. I think that was very fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr H said he had to pay for his cars tax, insurance and finance when he didnt have use of 
it. I can understand that this must have been frustrating. But Im satisfied that Admiral 
doesnt have to reimburse him for these costs. This is because Mr H would have had to pay 
for his tax in any case. His insurance is an annual contract, which he is using in his claim, so 
its payable for the full year. And I cant hold Admiral responsible for Mr Hs financial 
arrangements. 
Admiral did uphold Mr Hs complaints about its delays and communication. And I agree that 
there were avoidable delays in the claim and poor communication:
There was a seven week wait until an independent assessor looked at the car even 
though Admiral had instructed him shortly after the claim was made. 
Then the wrong fuel contamination test kit was ordered and another one was needed. 
But to avoid further delays, Admiral authorised the approved garage to assess the 
engine for damage. 
Unfortunately, there was then a delay as the garage was moving locations. Admiral 
chased the repairer in this time, so I cant say it was responsible for this delay. 
From Admirals file notes, I think when Mr H first made the claim it tried to manage his 
expectations about a courtesy car and the time it would take to deal with his claim. I can 
see that when Mr H raised concerns about the multiple points of contact for his claim 
Admiral then gave him a single point of contact. But I think Admiral could have been 
more proactive before then and looked to keep Mr H better updated about what was 
happening with his car.
When a business makes mistakes, as Admiral accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Admiral bore the costs of the assessment of the engine. And Mr H said his car has now been 
repaired (albeit he has a further complaint point about that). Admiral paid for two weeks loss 
of use when he was without a courtesy car and provided one before it had authorised 
repairs, even though this wasnt provided by the policy. So I think that reasonably restores 
Mr Hs position.
Admiral offered Mr H £435 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its delays and 
handling of his claim. I think thats in keeping with our published guidance where there have 
been errors over several months. So I think that was fair and reasonable. 
I note that Admiral also offered Mr H £25 as a gesture of goodwill for its late response to his 
complaint. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. And we cant consider dissatisfaction 
solely about how a business has handled a complaint. So I cant comment further on that 
here. So, in conclusion, Im satisfied Admiral responded fairly and reasonably to Mr Hs complaints 
brought before 4 April 2023. And so I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman