DRN-1826295
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the service they received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when their 
account was targeted by fraudsters.
Mrs M brings this complaint on behalf of herself and her husband  so for ease, I will refer to 
Mrs M throughout this decision.
What happened
Ms M complained to HSBC about a disputed transaction made on her account in the sum of 
£670.  This was made on 19th October 2019 and Mrs M telephoned HSBC on 20th October to 
complain.  Having made the initial call to raise the dispute, Mrs M called back a further two 
times on that day.  During a call made just after 5pm, she was told by HSBC that the money 
would be refunded.
Mrs M was also told that the payment had been made through telephone banking  so it 
appeared these details had been compromised.  She was asked to attend a local branch 
with identification in order to reset her password.  She did this on 22nd October and the 
money was refunded back into her account within two days.
HSBC offered Mrs M £40 for the inconvenience caused.  She had not incurred any charges 
to the account - but the time spent on the telephone calls was acknowledged.
So, when HSBC refused to increase on this amount, Mrs M came to this service.  She told 
us she wanted a comprehensive explanation as to how this fraud had happened.  She also 
wanted to be compensated appropriately for the time she had spent in dealing with the 
matter, for any charges and interest to be waived, for a new account to be set up for her and 
for the fraudster to be removed from her payee list.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask HSBC to do anymore and he explained this to Mrs 
M.  In particular, he explained how we could not investigate how this fraud was able to have 
taken place.  What we needed to consider was whether HSBC had done anything wrong in 
how it responded to Mrs Ms complaint.
Mrs Ms response was that HSBC was protecting the identity of a fraudster and this service 
was now complicit in that.  She asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ms frustrations that a fraudster was not only able to access her 
account  but was able to transfer funds out of it too.  That must have left her feeling 
vulnerable  so I can also understand why it was she made several calls to HSBC on 20th 
October.
However, I think its right to acknowledge that at the end of that day, she was advised her 
money would be returned to her.  She incurred no charges or interest as a result of the 
transaction and the money was back in her account within a few days.
Is Mrs M wanted to open another account, it is a matter for her to make that application to 
the relevant team.  I do not think that was an unfair or unreasonable response.  And whilst I 
accept it might have been inconvenient for her to have to call into a branch, this was for the 
protection of her account and her money.  So, I dont think that was an unreasonable request 
to make -nor do I think it would be fair or reasonable to compensate Mrs M for doing so.
With regards to the explanation as to how the fraud was able to take place, HSBC has 
advised that the caller passed through security using Mrs Ms correct telephone banking 
passcode.  I think its unfair to suggest HSBC should be able to identify how this was 
compromised.  It could have been in a number of ways  including Mrs M unwittingly 
disclosing it.  Neither I nor HSBC have the answer to that query.  
In the circumstances, I have not seen anything to suggest HSBC has been unfair or 
unreasonable in the way it has dealt with this part of Mrs Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman