DRN-1770684
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to help when he fell victim to a 
scam. He feels that Santander should have stopped the payment from going through or 
refunded the money he lost.
What happened
Mr P received an email from someone who he thought was his accountant. The email looked 
like his accountants usual emails as it contained the correct letterhead and signature. It 
asked him to urgently pay an amount in tax to HMRC and provided the account number and 
sort code that the payment should be made to. Therefore, on 18 January 2017, Mr P did an 
online payment of £1,852.50 to that account. Mr P was then contacted by Santander on 24 
January 2017 to explain that the recipient account belonged to a scammer. Santander 
contacted the scammers bank to see if any of Mr Ps money could be retrieved. But the 
scammers bank confirmed that no money remained from Mr Ps transaction. Santander also 
told Mr P that, because he willingly set up the payment and transferred the money, that it 
was not responsible for refunding the funds. However, because Mr P had had to chase 
Santander on a number of occasions, it offered Mr P £100 compensation for his time and 
trouble.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having done so, I think Santander acted fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to 
leave Mr Ps account. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Mr P 
made the payment, he didnt know he was dealing with a scammer, so he sent the money in 
good faith. This means that  at the time  he wanted the payment to go ahead and 
authorised it to be made. And I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like Santander are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
 
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years - which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
  
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr P when he transferred £1,852.50 or whether it should have done more than it did. 
But I dont think the payment was particularly suspicious or unusual enough to say 
Santander ought to have had concerns that Mr P was being scammed. I dont think it was 
sufficiently suspicious to conclude Santander ought to have identified that it may be 
potentially fraudulent. 
Santander contacted Mr P because, in the course of investigating a scam against another 
customer, it ran a check to see if anyone else had made a payment to the same scammers 
account and discovered that Mr P had. Mr P had said that Santander contacted him later on 
the same day that he had made the transaction and that when he asked it to stop the 
payment, it said that it couldnt. However, looking at the available evidence, Santander 
contacted Mr P on 24 January 2017. Therefore, Santander couldnt stop the payment as it 
had been made some six days previously. At the point that Santander became aware that Mr 
P had been the victim of a scam, it contacted the scammers bank to see if any money was 
still in the receiving account and could be retrieved. Unfortunately, all of the funds that Mr P 
transferred had been removed and therefore couldnt be retrieved from the beneficiary bank. 
If it werent for another of Santanders customers having reported that theyd fallen victim to 
a scam, it may have been an even longer time before Mr P realised that hed been 
scammed.
Mr P says hes been told by the police that Santander didnt follow due diligence. However, 
looking at the available evidence, I consider that Santander dealt with the matter 
appropriately and in accordance with what was good industry practice at the time.The experience of being scammed is upsetting and it is extremely unfortunate that Mr P has 
lost out as a result. But in the circumstances, I cant fairly say that Santander should have 
done more to prevent that loss. I cant hold Santander responsible for Mr P having fallen 
victim to a scam. And I think Santander did all it could to help Mr P once it knew what had 
happened. So it would not be fair to ask Santander to compensate Mr P for his loss.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. However, Santander UK Plc should 
now pay Mr P the time and trouble payment of £100 that it offered Mr P, if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman