DRN-3435997
The complaint
Mrs S complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund payments she made after falling 
victim to a scam.
The account with TSB is held in Mrs Ss name and all of the payments were made from her 
account. However, the complaint has been brought by a representative who is authorised on 
Mrs Ss account via a Power of Attorney. The representative arranged the work and dealt 
with the builder. But, for simplicity, Ill refer to Mrs S throughout.
What happened
In 2020, Mrs S was looking to replace her kitchen. She approached a well-known company 
and received a quote, however it asked for more than she was willing to pay. Talking to a 
staff member at the company they referred her to a builder who installed their kitchens and 
could do the work she wanted for a cheaper price if she dealt with them directly and not 
through the company. Ill refer to the builder as A.
Mrs S says she reached an agreement with A about the work he was to complete and the 
price she would pay. In total Mrs S made four payments to A from her TSB account, as set 
out below.
Date Transaction detail Amount
 30.9.2020 Internet banking payment to A £6,000
26.10.2020 Internet banking payment to A £2,000
13.11.2020 Internet banking payment to A £1,500
  2.12.2020 Internet banking payment to A £1,300
What Mrs S says happened:
A was to put in a new kitchen, replace flooring in the kitchen, living room and utility 
room, install radiators, a sink and toilet. 
The initial price agreed was £10,500, however additional costs were added relating to 
a window and radiators.
While she received texts from A, Mrs S didnt receive any invoices. 
A removed all the radiators and flooring as well as the doors, but didnt replace any of 
these. Someone did plaster the kitchen and utility room, but it required a return visit 
to fix some of the plastering.
Despite repeated promises from A that he would attend the property and replace the 
flooring, he didnt. Before Christmas Mrs S stressed the urgency of needing flooring 
and was told A would come the next day. The next day A contacted her to say hed 
been stopped by the police and his van was impounded. After this A blocked her 
phone number so Mrs S was unable to contact him.
The last text Mrs S got from A said he would attend the property on 7 January 2021, 
but he didnt. Mrs S sent him a letter but he refused to sign for it and Mrs S hasnt 
heard from him since.
Mrs S has been contacted through a social media website by other people whove 
had the same experience with A.
Mrs S phoned the police but was told they couldnt do anything to help.
In January 2021 Mrs S raised a fraud claim with TSB.
TSB investigated Mrs Ss fraud claim but declined to refund her saying it was a buyer/seller 
dispute and not a scam. As such they said Mrs S wasnt entitled to a refund under their 
Fraud Refund Guarantee.
Mrs S wasnt happy with TSBs response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint. Ultimately, they upheld her complaint, saying 
that it wasnt a buyer/seller dispute or civil matter therefore Mrs S was entitled to a full refund 
under TSBs Fraud Refund Guarantee (FRG). The investigator felt the partial work 
completed by the builder was a ruse in order to build confidence and get Mrs S to make 
further payments. They recommended that TSB refund Mrs S in full and pay interest.
TSB disagreed with the investigators opinion saying their FRG doesnt cover purchase 
disputes, or where the goods or services dont meet a customers expectations. They also 
said that Mrs S making four payments over several months indicated that she was happy 
with the work completed up to the point she contacted TSB.
As TSB disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, I need to reach a decision on whether Mrs S is entitled a refund under TSBs 
Fraud Refund Guarantee and whether TSB have treated her fairly in the circumstances.
In April 2019, TSB launched their Fraud Refund Guarantee which says if youre clearly an 
innocent victim of fraud on your TSB account, we will refund the money you lost from your 
account. It goes on to say the guarantee doesnt cover purchase disputes, where you pay 
for something with your TSB account and the goods or services dont meet your 
expectations. This could be if the item arrives differently to how it was described.
In this case, Im satisfied that Mrs S is the innocent victim of fraud. She was looking to get a 
new kitchen fitted and approached a well-known company for a quote. She was then 
referred to someone she was told that fitted kitchens for that company and she chose to use 
that person trusting the referral she was given. So, I think she meets the first test under 
TSBs FRG.
In considering the second test, Im persuaded that its more likely than not that this was a 
scam and not a purchase dispute or dissatisfaction with the work completed - for the 
following reasons:
A didnt provide Mrs S with an invoice. I think its irregular for a tradesperson who 
does regular work for a large well-known company to not provide a proper quote for 
what was a reasonably large job. The only documentation Mrs S got was a piece of paper with some figures written down for the work she wanted done. There was no 
company name or VAT information, which I would expect to see.
Mrs S has told us that multiple people have contacted her saying theyve had the 
same experience in dealing with A. While this isnt emphatic proof, it does go towards 
building a picture about whether A was a reputable tradesperson vs someone who 
set out with the intention to not complete the work they were paid to do.
I wouldnt expect a genuine tradesperson to fail to attend the property on multiple 
occasions and fail to complete the work they were paid to do. I havent seen anything 
in the messages between Mrs S and A that suggests there was a break down in the 
relationship until the very last texts. The texts all focus on A making promises to turn 
up and complete the work, which didnt happen.
I dont agree that Mrs S making payments meant she was satisfied with the work. 
Texts show that A manipulated Mrs S into making additional payments. A gave an 
initial price for additional work, then told Mrs S that it could be done for a highly 
discounted price but only if she paid for the work that week. A put pressure on Mrs S 
so she felt the need to make the payments in order for the work to be done and save 
money overall.
A used a lot of stalling tactics as well in the messages with Mrs S. He often said that 
the delay was due to contractors that hed sub contracted work out to. He used 
excuses including his van being impounded by the police and the cost to get it 
released, a contractor ending up in hospital and A himself being unwell. In the later 
texts in December, he even says hed discussed it with his lawyer about how best to 
resolve the issue with regards to completing the work.
Ultimately in deciding whether Mrs S was the victim of a scam, I need to decide whether A 
had the intention from the outset to not complete the work he quoted for. For all the reasons 
set out above, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that A did set out with the intention to 
scam Mrs S, and had no intention of completing the work hed quoted for and kept using 
manipulation to gain additional payments from Mrs S. 
On that basis, Im satisfied that Mrs Ss loss should be covered by TSBs Fraud Refund 
Guarantee. Therefore, TSB should refund all of the payments she made as part of the scam 
and pay interest at the savings account interest rate applicable to the account the funds 
originated from.
Putting things right
To put things right TSB Bank plc should:
Refund Mrs S for all the payments she made, which total £10,800
Pay interest on the refund at the account interest rate where the funds originated 
from (eSavings account) - from the date of the payments until the date of settlement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc and they should 
compensate Mrs S as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman