DRN-3580778
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Alwyn Insurance Company Limited (AIC) avoided (treated it as if 
it never existed) his motorbike insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr W took out a third party fire and theft motorbike insurance policy with AIC through a 
broker. When his motorbike was stolen two months later, he tried to claim on his policy. 
AIC declined his claim, avoided his policy and refunded the premiums hed already paid. 
When Mr W complained, it said hed answered the question hed been asked about motoring 
convictions incorrectly. And that entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse his claim. Mr W said 
the points for a speeding conviction were added to his licence after he had taken out the 
policy.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our Investigator didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
He thought there had been a qualifying misrepresentation as AIC wouldnt have offered 
cover if Mr W had provided the correct information about his driving history. He thought AIC 
had asked Mr W about convictions or points. He thought Mr W had declared the points, but 
not the latest conviction which he should reasonably have known about. So he thought there 
had been a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation which entitled AIC to avoid the policy 
and decline the claim.
Mr W doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr W 
said hed checked the DVLA website at the time he took out his policy and no points were 
recorded for the recent conviction. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
AIC thinks Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a call to his broker that he had two previous driving convictions. 
And Ive looked at the question he was asked when he took out the policy and I agree he 
failed to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked:
Do you have any driving convictions or points in the last five years?.
And I think this was a clear question asked by AIC through the broker Mr W used. 
Mr W declared two SP30 speeding convictions from 2018, but he didnt declare a third one 
from four months before he took out his policy. Mr W said he was unsure whether this was 
relevant as it was whilst he was driving a hired car. And he said he received the points after 
he took out the policy. But I think Mr W was clearly asked about convictions or points. 
And Ive seen that Mr W paid the fixed penalty notice ten days before he took out the policy. 
And so I think he should reasonably have been aware that this was a conviction that he 
should have declared. And I think this means Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when he said he had just two previous driving convictions within 
the past five years. 
Mr W was sent his policy documents and asked to check that they were accurate. The 
Statement of Fact records that he had two speeding convictions. But I cant see that Mr W 
corrected this.
AIC has provided evidence from its underwriting guide which shows that if Mr W had not 
made this misrepresentation it would not have offered cover. This means Im satisfied that 
Mr Ws misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
I also think Mr Ws misrepresentation was a reckless or deliberate misrepresentation. This is 
because I think Mr W must have realised he had a third conviction as he had recently paid 
the fixed penalty notice. 
Therefore, Im satisfied AIC was entitled to avoid Mr Ws policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, AIC does not have to deal with 
his claim following the theft of his motorbike. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing AIC to rely on it to avoid Mr Ws policy 
produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman