DRN-4024956
The complaint
Miss K believes Black Horse Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a hire purchase 
agreement shed applied for.
What happened
In December 2017, Miss K was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse. She paid a deposit of £1,202.65 and the agreement was for £24,791.35 
over 49 months, with 48 monthly repayments of £421.88 and an optional final payment of 
£10,483. Due to her financial circumstances, Miss K handed the car back in late 2020, 
leaving an outstanding balance of £3,396.72 which still needed to be paid.
Miss K has complained that Black Horse didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. 
Shes said that the supplying dealership falsified her income on the application to Black 
Horse, and she was only earning £1,430 a month at the time. Shes also said that she was 
paying £847 a month for her credit commitments, mobile phone bills, and car insurance. So, 
she didnt think the £421 monthly payment to Black Horse was affordable.
Black Horse acknowledged that the £2,305 monthly income theyd been advised and 
recorded for Miss K at the time of her application was incorrect and, after discussions with 
Miss K, said this shouldve been £1,430 a month. However, they thought this meant the 
finance would still have been affordable to Miss K at the point of application. So, they didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong by approving the finance.
However, due to Miss Ks personal and financial circumstances, they agreed to write off the 
£3,396.72 remaining under the agreement as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss K wasnt happy with this, so she brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said hed seen that the checks Black Horse did indicated that Miss K owed 
over £21,000 to other creditors at the time of her application to Black Horse. And, even with 
the income of £2,305 Black Horse had recorded, the investigator said hed thought it would 
be appropriate for them to have looked into Miss Ks financial situation further.
The investigator considered Miss Ks circumstances at the time of her application. And, while 
she was able to provide some documents, she wasnt able to provide anything to show what 
her actual monthly income and expenditure at the time was. So, even though other lenders 
had said they shouldnt have lent Miss K different amounts at different times, the investigator 
said he hadnt seen anything to show him that Black Horse shouldnt have agreed the 
finance Miss K applied for. As such, he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Miss K disagreed with the investigator. She provided additional evidence showing what 
shed earned in November and December 2017. And shes asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss K would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Black Horse make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss K 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Black Horse didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss 
Ks application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss K 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Black Horse have explained that they electronically verify the declared income and do an 
affordability check based on the information declared by the customer, the information 
obtained from their credit file, and a deduction for living costs. And they say the calculation 
they did at the time showed that the finance was affordable for Miss K. Theyve also 
provided a statement to show that Miss K maintained payments from January 2018 until 
March 2020, when payments started to be missed.
In her complaint, Miss K has explained how her income at the time was around £1,430 a 
month. And shes said that the dealership who supplied the car changed this to an income of 
£38,000 a year when they submitted the application to Black Horse. While I appreciate Miss 
Ks feelings about this, any alteration of the income details on the application took place 
before it was submitted to Black Horse. As such, Im satisfied that this is a complaint Miss K 
has against the supplying dealer. And I wont address this further within my decision.
Ive seen a copy of the credit file summary details Black Horse considered as part of their 
approval process. And this shows Miss K had seven active credit accounts, with a total 
outstanding balance of £21,185, and total monthly payments to these of £238.
However, I havent seen anything to show me how Black Horse verified the declared income 
for Miss K. And, as they havent evidenced this check, I cant be satisfied that they carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks. Therefore, Ive gone on to consider what Black 
Horse would likely have found had reasonable and proportionate checks been carried out.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss K would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way?Ive seen that Miss K was asked to provide copies of her bank statements for the period just 
before the finance was taken out. While I wouldnt have necessarily expected Black Horse to 
have asked Miss K for copies of these statements, Im satisfied that the statements would 
give a good indication of what Black Horse would likely have taken into consideration had 
they done reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss Ks income and expenditure.
However, Miss K has explained that she no longer has copies of the statements and, as her 
bank account at that time has since been closed, its not possible for her to provide this 
information. Given this, I need to consider whether I think that the finance was affordable 
based on the information provided from other sources.
Miss K has provided confirmation from the Inland Revenue of her income from November 
2017 to March 2018. This shows that she had two jobs and that she picked up £1,047 in 
November 2017 and £1,788 in December 2017. Given the large discrepancy in these two 
amounts, Ive also looked at what she picked up in January, February, and March 2018. And 
Ive seen that these amounts were all extremely close to her December 2017 income. As 
such, I think its reasonable for me to use the December 2017 figure as Miss Ks income at 
the time.
The credit file summary Black Horse provided shows that, although Miss K owed £21,185 
across seven active credit accounts, she was only committed to pay a total of £238 a month 
towards these. I havent been provided with a full copy of Miss Ks credit file, either from 
Black Horse or from Miss K, either from the time of the application or an up to date copy 
(where historical information could be used to identify Miss Ks likely outgoings at the time). 
But Miss K has provided some extracts of her credit report, and these show shed missed no 
payments to her credit commitments in 2016 and 2017.
Miss K had said to Black Horse that her debt and mobile phone outgoings at the time of her 
application were £627.42 a month. And in her complaint form to us she said these were 
£797.24 (including her car insurance payments). Shes also provided some evidence of her 
outgoings in November 2017, which shows she was paying £56 for her car insurance, 
around £80 for her mobile phone, and £376 for her credit commitments. 
However, shes also provided evidence to show that one of her credit commitments (for £164 
a month) finished in December 2018, the month before payments to Black Horse started. 
Shes also provided evidence that she was approved for a loan with payments of £394 a 
month, but I havent seen anything to show me when this started. 
As such, based on what Miss K has provided, I think its reasonable to take her outgoing at 
the time to be the £238 shown on the credit file summary (as this is more than the sum of the 
commitments Miss K has shown), plus £136 for her phone and car insurance  a total of 
£374.
Based on the income and expenditure referred to above, Miss K would have £1,414 a month 
disposable income. And, after paying Black Horse, this would reduce to £992. Based on 
whats been provided, I havent seen anything to show me that this would be insufficient to 
support Miss Ks other costs i.e. housing, household bills, food etc.
Miss K has also provided evidence that a catalogue lender agreed they shouldnt have 
increased her credit limit in December 2009. She also provided evidence from a credit card 
company that they shouldnt have provided her with a card in November 2016. Additionally, 
shes also provided information about her current financial situation, which includes arrears 
and defaults. While this additional information attests to her financial circumstances in the years before 
she applied to Black Horse, it doesnt give any indications to her financial circumstances in 
November 2017. So, this information doesnt automatically mean that the finance with Black 
Horse wasnt affordable, or shouldnt have been approved, in November 2017. 
As such, taking all this into consideration I cant say that, had Black Horse carried out 
proportionate checks, they wouldve seen that the finance wasnt affordable. 
Miss K has also provided details and comments about her health, personal, and financial 
circumstances. While I appreciate that Miss K is currently struggling as a result of this, I 
havent seen anything to show me that Black Horse were aware, or should reasonably have 
been aware, of this at the time of the application.
However, when Black Horse did become aware of this, Ive seen that they wrote-off Miss Ks 
outstanding debt. I think that this was reasonable in the circumstances, and I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.
Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Black Horse acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
some other way.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint about Black Horse 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman