DRN-4175039
The complaint
Miss E complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank have 
irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss E applied for and was accepted for a Tesco credit card in September 2011 with an 
opening credit limit of £4,000. This was increased to £6,000 in October 2014. Miss E 
complained to Tesco as she said this was irresponsible of them to open the credit card for 
her and increase the credit limit. 
Tesco said they were unable to investigate Miss Es complaint as this was made outside of 
the relevant timescales. Miss E brought her complaint to our service who ruled it was 
brought inside the relevant timescales. 
Our investigator partially upheld Miss Es complaint. He said given the time thats passed 
since the original lending decision, Tesco havent been able to provide any information 
regarding this lending decision, so he couldnt say their checks were reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances. While Miss E was able to provide a self-assessment tax 
return for 2011-2012 tax year (which showed an income of £8,274 for the year ending 5 April 
2012), this wasnt enough on its own to make an assessment on whether reasonable and 
proportionate checks wouldve demonstrated the lending was affordable. And there was no 
information on Miss Es total unsecured debt at the point of her initial application, so he was 
unable to fairly identify any signs to suggest the repayments were unlikely to be sustainable 
and therefore unaffordable for Miss E.
Our investigator said regarding the credit limit increase to £6,000 that Tesco havent been 
able to show any affordability assessments were based on Miss Es income even though it 
was a significant amount they were increasing her credit limit to. So he didnt think 
proportionate checks had been carried out. He said as a proportionate check Tesco could 
have requested further information to satisfy themselves that the repayments would be 
affordable. He said Miss E has provided her bank statements for the three months leading 
up to the credit limit increase and her tax returns which showed her average income 
between July-September 2014 was £650 a month from self-employment. He said her tax 
return for 2013-2014 showed annual income of £7,746 and £6,871 for 2014-2015. Our 
investigator said that considering Tescos checks showed she had debt of 35,821, then Miss 
E would not be able to take on more debt on top of her £4,000 existing credit limit with them. 
So if they would have carried out further checks then he wasnt persuaded they would 
increase her credit limit. 
Tesco asked for an Ombudsman to review Miss Es complaint. They made a number of 
points. In summary they said the £650 a month on average was based on our investigator 
seeing Miss Es self-assessment tax forms and it doesnt seem consistent with the way the 
account was managed. They said the total number of payments to the account for 2013 was 
£7,082.03 which equated to £590.17 a month on average. In 2014 this was £8,016.32 - 
£668.03 on average, which suggests Miss E would have been using almost all of her income 
to make the repayments to the credit card. They said they had asked their payments team to 
provide some trace information regarding large payments being part of balance transfers. 
They said five of twelve larger payments had come from balance transfers and they cant 
trace two of the payments, but five had come from bank accounts in Miss Es name. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve or increase the credit available to Miss E, Tesco needed to 
make proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable 
for her. Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I 
expect lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the 
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as 
the consumer's personal circumstances. Ive listed below what checks Tesco have done and 
whether Im persuaded these checks were proportionate.
September 2011 - Initial acceptance of the Tesco credit card:
Ive looked at what checks Tesco said they did when initially approving Miss Es application 
for the credit card. Ill address the credit limit increase later on. Tesco have said that due to 
the time thats passed, they have no information regarding this. So I cant see what their 
checks would have shown. Therefore Im not able to say that the checks they performed 
prior to the £4,000 credit limit being approved were proportionate or not, or whether they 
made a fair lending decision here. Miss E has provided us with her self-assessment tax 
return for 2011-2012 which shows income of £8,274 for the year ending 5 April 2012. But 
this was nearly six months prior to her being accepted for the credit card. Its unclear what 
Miss Es outgoings were at the time, or if she had any additional income such as any 
benefits she was receiving, or what level of any other unsecured debt she had at the time. 
So I simply do not have sufficient evidence to conclude that Tesco did not make a fair 
lending decision when they approved her initial application for £4,000.
October 2014 credit limit increase - £4,000 to £6,000
Ive looked at the information that Tesco had available to them when they increased Miss Es 
credit limit. The new credit limit was a 50% increase based on the initial credit limit. This was 
an increase of £2,000. So Ive looked at the data Tesco had around the time to get a broader 
sense of how Miss E was managing her finances prior to her credit limit being increased.
I can see that Miss E had generally managed her Tesco credit card well. Although she often 
only paid the minimum payment, there appeared to be no adverse credit information on her 
credit file at this point, so on the surface, it would appear that a credit limit increase may be 
affordable and sustainable for her. 
But thats not all the data showed. Tescos data showed that Miss E had total unsecured 
borrowings of £5,821. But this also does not give a true reflection of the total credit limits that 
were available for her to use prior to the increase of the Tesco credit card limit. For example, 
on Miss Es last statement before the credit limit was increased (October 2014), this showed 
that Miss E had an outstanding balance of £515.45, but as she had a credit limit of £4,000, 
she would have been able to utilise this credit also. So due to the level of the Tesco increase 
being relatively high - £2,000 (representing a 50% increase) to total £6,000, then I would 
have expected Tesco to make further proportionate checks to ensure a high credit limit was 
affordable and sustainable for her. Im persuaded that as part of a proportionate check, Tesco should have requested 
information from Miss E to discuss her finances, to ensure that she had enough disposable 
income to be able to afford and sustain repayments to the credit card. For example, they 
could have rung Miss E to discuss this, or as a proportionate check based on the level of 
increase, they could have asked Miss E to provide her bank statements or proof of 
income/outgoings, to see if she could afford any increase to the credit limit. They also could 
have checked her credit file to see how much credit was available to her on her existing 
credit card debt.
So Ive considered whether Tesco would have still approved the credit limit if they made 
further checks. But Im persuaded that they would not have approved the increase to the 
credit limit and Ill explain why.
Its unclear what Miss Es credit file would have shown in relation to the total amount of credit 
available to her here. And given the time thats passed, Im unable to evidence this one way 
or another. But they could have asked Miss E for her bank statements to show how she was 
managing her finances and to show she had the affordability for a four figure increase in the 
credit limit. Miss E has provided us with her bank statements. One of her bank statements 
covers the period prior to the credit limit increase (July-September 2014) and shows her self-
employed income. The other bank statement covers the period from January 2014 to when 
the account was closed in March 2014. While I would not expect Tesco to check her 
statements between January-March 2014, this does include some important information 
about extra income she received in addition to her self-employed income which I think is 
relevant here, as Im satisfied she would have disclosed all of her income to Tesco if they 
would have asked her about this. 
The statements from January-March 2014 show that Miss E was receiving child related 
benefits which were for £116.44 a week to her name. And another benefit for £33.70 a 
month. So Im not persuaded that these benefits would have stopped just because her 
account was closed, given what she has said about her family situation to us. So its likely 
that Miss E was receiving nearly £6,500 a year (£541 a month) in benefits in addition to her 
other income. Miss Es bank statements show approximately £650 a month self-employed 
income from July-September 2014. 
So it would appear that Miss E had income of approximately £1,191 a month income, or 
£14,292 a year. But its likely there would have needed to be tax paid on her self-employed 
income which would reduce this income down further. The credit limit which Tesco were 
increasing for Miss E was nearly half of the income the evidence likely shows she would be 
receiving around the time of the Tesco credit limit increase. As her outstanding balance in 
October 2014 on her Tesco credit card was for £515.45, then based on Tescos checks 
showing Miss E had a total unsecured balance of £5,821, then Im persuaded it would be 
reasonable to say that she had £5,821-£515.41 = £5,305.59 of unsecured debt with other 
providers at the time Tesco increased her credit limit by an extra £2,000.
Although its not clear what the total credit limit Miss E had elsewhere when she was 
approved for the credit limit increase with Tesco, its likely that this was over £5,305.59 (the 
likely level of her unsecured borrowings elsewhere). So by Tesco increasing the credit limit 
from £4,000 to £6,000, this would have increased her available credit from a minimum of 
£5,305.59 to at least £10,790.18 (given she had used £515.45 credit on her Tesco credit 
card at the time)  which is the majority of her apparent annual income. So Im not 
persuaded that any credit limit increase would have been affordable or sustainable for her 
here.
Ive considered what Tesco have said about the repayments Miss E had made in 2013 and 
2014. But this doesnt tell the whole story of how Miss E managed her account. There were signs that Miss E was using debt to pay debt. Miss E has told us that she used to transfer 
debt between her credit cards to try and reduce the balance outstanding and her activity in 
2013 clearly shows this. There are four separate occasions where either Miss E has either 
completed a large payment to her Tesco account or from her Tesco account. These were in 
January 2013  a large payment for £1,944.44, April 2013  a large payment for £1,700, 
May 2013  a large payment for £2,900 and October 2013 - from a large payment of £3,000. 
From the trace information provided to us, Tesco only show the January and October 2013 
payments. But they have been unable to trace the January payment. They have shown that 
the October payment of £3,000 came from a third party account in Miss Es name. But Im 
not persuaded that this means Miss E had the affordability to pay them £3,000 from her 
disposable income considering what the evidence suggests about her income. This could 
have been completed via a money transfer to an account which she then transferred to her 
Tesco credit card. And Im satisfied that the large payments should have given rise to 
investigate this further to ensure she had the affordability to sustainably repay a £6,000 
credit limit.
In 2013, Miss Es direct debit payment varied from 65p up to a maximum of £45 a month, 
which was rarely much higher than her minimum repayment. So Miss E only appears to 
make a total of £437.99 of repayments by direct debit with the rest being from balance 
transfers. Although its not clear what income Tesco had recorded for Miss E, Im satisfied 
its unlikely to be showing that she would have the affordability to be able to afford the 
£1,700-£3,000 payments which were made to her account on three occasions, so they 
should have been aware that the bulk of the £7,082.03 which they said she paid in 2013 was 
in all likelihood coming from other unsecured borrowings.
There are similarities in 2014 which were the same as 2013. Ive looked at the payments 
made by Miss E in 2014  up until the end of September 2014. Her direct debit ranged from 
£0 (when she had made a large payment to clear her balance), up to £71.16. There are two 
ad-hoc payments of £300 and £40 where its not clear if this has come from her money or 
not. But there are also four payments between £1,350 and £2,306.95 which have been 
made to the account, including two payments totalling £3,600 from 26 August-11 September 
2014, which was just before Tesco increased Miss Es credit limit by 50%. So Miss E paid 
£344.39 by direct debit from January-30 September 2014. So again, the majority of the 
£8,016.32 which Tesco said Miss E paid in 2014, was from balance transfers. 
Tesco have shown that one of the payments in April 2014 came from an account in Miss Es 
name, but again, this doesnt prove that this was made from Miss Es disposable income and 
would be able to be sustainable. They have provided clear evidence that at least three 
payments in 2014  including two within two months of the credit limit increase were made 
from balance transfers. Ive gave no consideration to the payments they highlighted to us in 
2015 as these were made after the credit limit increase. And therefore they are not relevant 
to the lending decision in October 2014 prior to increasing the credit limit. 
So Im not persuaded that proportionate checks would have shown a £2,000 credit limit 
increase would be affordable or sustainable for Miss E when there was signs she had over 
£5,000 unsecured debt elsewhere at the time of the credit limit increase which appeared to 
be from revolving debt, as there is no evidence to show this was from a personal loan. Miss 
E showed a pattern of using debt to reduce the debt, then to utilise the credit limit again in a 
pattern which was not sustainable. She did not appear to have the affordability to make four 
figure repayments based on her own income even if I included her benefits in this amount. 
And Im satisfied that if Tesco had made further checks based on the credit limit increase 
being an extra £2,000 compared to her income, then Tesco would have made the decision 
to not increase the credit limit to £6,000. So I intend to ask them to put things right for Miss 
E.I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Miss E accepted the provisional decision. Tesco did not respond to the provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information about this complaint to 
consider, then my decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank to do the following:
Tesco should arrange to transfer any debt back to themselves if it has been passed to a
debt recovery agent.
Tesco should also rework the account, refunding all interest and charges that have been
applied to any balances above £4,000. If the rework results in a credit balance, this should
be refunded to Miss E along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of
each overpayment to the date of settlement. Tesco should also remove all adverse
information recorded from October 2014 regarding this account from Miss Es credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £4,000, Tesco should arrange
an affordable repayment plan with Miss E for the remaining amount. Once Miss E has 
cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded from October 2014 in 
relation to the account should be removed from her credit file. 
Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
*If Tesco considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, they should tell Miss E how much theyve taken off. They should also
give Miss E a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank plc 
should settle the complaint in line with the instructions in the putting things right section 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman