DRN-3640193
The complaint
Mr M complains that BISL Limited (BISL) unfairly charged a cancellation fee relating to his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In March 2022 Mr M contacted BISL in order to cancel his motor insurance policy. He says 
he had sold his car as a result of his financial situation and didnt need insurance. 
BISL arranged for the cancellation and Mr M was provided with a partial refund of the 
premium he had paid, minus a £55 cancellation fee. He didnt think it was fair for BISL to 
charge a cancellation fee and so raised a complaint. He says he can understand a charge 
being levied if the risk insured had changed. But in this case, there was no risk as he had 
sold his car. He asked for the fee to be refunded. 
BISL says the cancellation charge was made clear to Mr M in the information he received 
when taking out the policy and at renewal. It says it confirmed the £55 cancellation charge 
during the call when Mr M requested to cancel, at which time he didnt raise any concerns. 
Because Mr M didnt think BISL had treated him fairly he referred his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says the cancellation charge isnt related to 
the risk being insured. He thought the fee had been highlighted clearly and that the amount 
charged was reasonable for the administrative task carried out. 
Mr M disagreed. He says the insurance industry has a history of behaving unfairly. He 
references Payment Protection Insurance, amongst other issues, as an example. He says 
charging a cancellation fee in these circumstances is morally wrong and he doesnt think the 
information he was provided was clear enough. Because he remained dissatisfied Mr M 
asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him, 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
BISL administers Mr Ms insurance policy on behalf of his insurer. Its responsible for the fee 
hes complained about. My remit here is to consider whether BISL behaved fairly when 
applying this charge.
Ive read the renewal documents Mr M was sent in September 2021 to understand what his 
policy terms say about cancellation fees. Under the section, Cancellation fees and other 
charges the terms say:
If you cancel within 14 days of the date your documents are available online, or you receive 
them in the post (if later) you will have to pay an arrangement fee.
If you cancel after this period you will have to pay a cancellation fee. In all cases you will 
also have to pay for the time you have had on cover.
Cancellation fee (after 14 days): £55
If you cancel your policy after 14 days, the fee shown is payable along with an additional
amount in proportion to the period of cover you had up to the cancellation date.
From this I think its clear a £55 cancellation fee applies in these circumstances. I dont 
agree with Mr M that this charge relates to the risk associated with insuring his car. I think 
this relates to the administration involved in cancelling his policy. 
Ive thought about what the Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says about 
cancellation charges. ICOBS sets out relevant guidance for the industry to follow. In this 
case the guidance set out in ICOBS 7 is of relevance. In essence this says that any 
administration fee should be proportionate to the service provided. BISL charges £55 for its 
administration when cancelling a contract after the 14-day cooling off period. Although I 
understand Mr M will disagree - our service considers this level of charge reasonable, and 
not disproportionate to the task carried out.
Ive thought about Mr Ms argument that he doesnt think the information BISL provided was 
clear enough. But having read the policy documentation, I think the information describing 
when charges apply is clear. 
Ive also considered whether Mr M would have behaved any differently, assuming the 
information provided at renewal was sufficient for him to be aware of the cancellation charge. 
I havent seen evidence that suggests he would. I note his comments that his financial 
circumstances meant he had to sell his car. But he hasnt shown that this was something he 
was aware of when the policy renewed back in September 2021. 
Im sorry that Mr M feels he has been charged unfairly. But for the reasons I have given, I 
dont think BISL has behaved unreasonably when relying on its policy terms and applying a 
cancellation charge. So, I cant fairly ask it to do anymore to resolve Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman