DRN-2928961
The complaint
Mr H complains about the decision by AXA Insurance UK Plc to decline a claim under his 
commercial landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Hs tenant reported that his shop had flooded, and so Mr H made a claim. AXA appointed 
a surveyor (that Ill call Company B). They accepted there was some damage, but thought 
this was due to wear and tear rather than a flooding incident. 
AXA turned down the claim as it didnt think Mr H had shown that an insured event had 
occurred. Mr H therefore appointed a company (that Ill call Company C) to carry out an 
inspection. They said the floor was saturated, and thought the damage had been caused by 
a flash flood. AXA maintained its decision to decline the claim, and so Mr H brought a 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. After considering the evidence, 
she didnt think there was enough to say that an insured event had happened at the 
property. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage by storm or flood. Flood is defined in the policy as:
The escape of water from the normal confines of any natural or artificial water course, lake, 
reservoir, canal, drain or dam. Inundation from the sea. Rain induced run-off. Whether 
resulting from storm or not.
Mr H said the incident happened on 13 August 2020. Company B carried out an inspection 
on 16 September 2020. They said the tenant advised them they had found water on the 
shop floor during storm conditions.
Company B noticed there was long-term water damage to the ceiling and walls of the 
storeroom, and said the tenant had advised this was due to a previous roof leak many years 
earlier. Company B thought that damage was consistent with a long-term leak rather than a 
one-off incident.
Company B said there was evidence of long-term wear and tear to the shop floor, but there 
was no moisture picked up by the damp meter, and so they didnt think the damage to the 
shop floor had happened recently. They also said there was no damage to the wall or 
skirting boards. Company B thought the damage to the flooring was due to a natural 
breakdown of materials and not a one-off incident.
Company C carried out an inspection on 24 November 2020. They said thered been an 
escape of water from a flash flood that came through the front of the shop causing water 
damage to the shop floor and walls. They said the supporting data for that was the moisture 
readings taken which showed the front of the shop floor was saturated. They said the floor 
did show signs of wear and tear, but the floor was starting to lift due to the ingress of water. 
Ive checked the weather reports on the date of the reported incident, and Im satisfied there 
werent storm conditions that day. There was some rainfall, though the maximum recorded 
was only 1.6mm in an hour. 
Mr Hs tenant didnt take any photos of the flooding incident they say took place. And I 
havent seen any other evidence to support that there was any flash flooding in the area, 
such as media reports or evidence that other shops on that road had experienced flooding 
too. 
Company B took several photos of the shop during their inspection the month after the 
reported incident. The photos show items of clothing on rails, with the clothing reaching 
down to the floor. However, my understanding is that none of the stock was damaged, which 
you might expect if there were flooding. Also, Company B noticed there was no damage to 
the skirting or the walls, which again, you might expect during a flooding incident.
Company B took moisture readings around a month after the incident, but said there was no 
evidence of moisture in the floor at the time. I appreciate that Company C did pick up high 
moisture readings during their inspection, though this took place three months after the 
reported incident. 
I think greater weight should be given to Company Bs findings, since their inspection took 
place closer to the reported incident. They found no evidence of moisture to the flooring, and 
thought the flooring had suffered from the natural breakdown of the materials rather than a 
specific insured incident. 
Although Company C said the cause of damage had been flash flooding, I would assume 
this was based on Mr Hs own reporting, since there was no other evidence to support that 
flooding had happened. 
I understand that Company C found the flooring to be saturated in November 2020, but I 
dont know why that was. As far as Im aware, Mr H didnt report any further flooding taking 
place between the date of Company Bs inspection in September 2020 and the date of 
Company Cs inspection in November 2020. 
In order for AXA to accept the claim, the onus is on Mr H to show that there was damage 
caused by storm or flood (or any other insured peril), but Im not satisfied hes done so here. 
He hasnt provided evidence to support that flooding took place at the time of the reported 
incident, and the evidence from Company B supports that any damage to the shop floor was 
due to wear and tear rather than a storm or flood. 
Although Mr H does have accidental damage cover under his policy, this excludes wear and 
tear.
Im therefore not persuaded that Mr H has shown that he has a valid claim covered by the 
policy, and so I think it was reasonable for AXA to turn down the claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman