DRN-3059116
The complaint and what happened
Mr S has complained that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Ive included relevant sections of my provisional decision from December 2021, which 
form part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I 
was planning to uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I thought that Hitachi 
was responsible for the misrepresentation made by the installer in this case, and that 
it was the misrepresentation which led Mr S to enter into the contract. And that he has 
lost out as a result.
I asked both Mr S and Hitachi to let me have any more information they wanted me to 
consider before I reached a final decision. Neither party has anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it and have included here the relevant sections of my 
provisional decision:
What happened
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in September 2014. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Hitachi, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr S into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent. Mr S also 
says that the installer caused damaged to the roof during the installation.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress would be for the loan 
(which was settled in early 2015) to be hypothetically restructured to effectively make the 
panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual 
performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Hitachi 
did not accept this, so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hitachi is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I [plan to] uphold this case. In brief, that is because the 
evidence supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr S was not 
given clear information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding 
and would equate to an additional cost for him.
Hitachi says there is no evidence that Mr S was told the panels would be self-funding. That 
is incorrect. There is Mr Ss testimony about what the salesperson told him, which is 
evidence in the same way that documents are, and which I have to evaluate. Ive been 
given no reason to doubt Mr Ss recollections of the conversation, nor have I seen any 
evidence to suggest that Mr S would have been motivated to knowingly take on an 
additional monthly cost simply for the privilege of having solar panels on his roof. That 
conclusion would be borderline irrational based on the information available. So I find that 
his testimony (expressed through his representative) is plausible.
Hitachi also says that the paperwork from the time of the sale clearly shows that the 
panels would come at a cost to Mr S and would not be self-funding. I disagree. 
Essentially, the information about what the installer would charge for the panels; what 
Hitachi would charge in interest; and the estimated income that the panels would 
generate are not set out clearly on the same document to make them accessible to the 
average consumer. So the paperwork as it is would not be sufficient to contradict what Mr 
S was being told by the salesperson, and to make him instead understand that the panels 
were not self-funding.
Therefore I conclude it is more likely than not that it was a misrepresentation by the 
installer which induced Mr S to enter into this contract.
Should Hitachi inspect and potentially fix damage on Mr Ss roof?
Mr Ss representatives have raised the issue of damage to Mr Ss roof caused by the 
installation of the panels and requested that Hitachi commission an inspection and repair 
the roof. Hitachi has refused, highlighting that the 5-year warranty period on the contract 
expired at the end of 2019. Mr S says he tried to raise it with the installer not long after the 
installation, but that the business had already gone bust, and he didnt realise he could 
hold Hitachi responsible.
Ive thought very carefully about this issue, and ultimately I dont think it is either unfair or 
unreasonable of Hitachi to refuse to take action. But not because the warranty has now 
expired. Mr S has provided photographs to show slipped roof tiles, apparently under where 
a panel is installed. He says that the impact of the slipped tiles has been clogged guttering. 
However, guttering collects debris in any event, and requires maintenance under any and 
all circumstances. Put simply, he hasnt provided sufficient evidence that the actions of the 
installer have led him to suffer an actual loss in relation to the current state of the guttering. 
So I dont require Hitachi to do anything about this alleged damage.
As neither party has disputed the findings contained in my provisional decision, or 
provided any further evidence, I have no reason to depart from them. It therefore 
follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Hitachi is responsible for errors by the installer, and therefore didnt treat Mr S fairly 
when rejecting his claim about misrepresentation under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 and he lost out because of what Hitachi did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ss complaint for Hitachi to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the 
solar panels over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he 
keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended.In the event the calculation shows that the consumer is paying (or has paid) more than 
they should have Hitachi need to reimburse the consumer accordingly. Should the 
calculation show that the mis-presentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with the consumer by way of explanation.
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then I require Hitachi to take action. It is my 
understanding that Mr S has settled the loan, in which case Hitachi should pay Mr S the 
difference between what he paid in total and what the loan should have been had the 
panels been self-funding, with 8% interest.
I understand that Mr S has supplied evidence of a refinance to Hitachi, who should:
1. Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Hitachi loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest* from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding.
*If Hitachi Capital UK Plc considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much it has taken off. If 
should also give Mr S a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so that he can claim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Hitachi that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Hitachi 
should also pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and direct Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to put things right as set out in the previous section of this 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman