DRN-2261270
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance 
renewal for their buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had insured their buildings and contents through Triton since 2016. When the 
policy was due for renewal in September 2019, Mr and Mrs G received a renewal quote from 
Triton. It confirmed that the insurer of the policy was remaining the same from the renewal 
date. Mr and Mrs G paid the full premium of £733.03 and received new policy documents 
from Triton. 
In August 2020 Mr G began making enquiries about the upcoming policy renewal. He had 
seen on the regulators website that there had been concerns raised with Triton, so he 
contacted the insurer shown on their policy schedule. The insurer told Mr G that 
Mr and Mrs G had been insured with them until September 2018. But they confirmed that 
Triton hadnt passed on any of the premiums collected since 2018 and the policy hadnt 
been renewed. They also told Mr G that theyd stopped trading with Triton in January 2019, 
so the renewal quote in September 2019 should never have been offered to Mr and Mrs G 
by Triton. They urged Mr G to get in touch with Triton to resolve things. 
Mr and Mrs G raised a complaint through our service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mr and Mrs G. He asked Triton to refund the premiums 
Mr and Mrs G paid to renew their policy in 2018 and 2019. He also asked Triton to pay 
interest on that amount and pay Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation for the upset the matter 
had caused them.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mr and Mrs G have provided. I find 
their information plausible and persuasive.
Mr and Mrs G paid Triton before their policy renewed every year to ensure their policy 
remained active. And, once Mr G was aware that they didnt have any insurance cover in 
force, he made sure they sought cover with an alternative insurer. 
Mr and Mrs Gs insurer has shown that Triton never renewed a policy with it for 
Mr and Mrs G in 2018. Nor did Triton pass on Mr and Mrs Gs insurance premium payments 
to the insurer. The insurer has also shown that it cancelled its agreement with Triton in 
January 2019. Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I 
cant provide Mr and Mrs G with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im 
satisfied Triton havent passed on any of the payments Mr and Mrs G made to them in 2018 
and 2019. And Im satisfied Triton shouldnt have offered Mr and Mrs G any insurance cover 
with the insurer in September 2019. Triton should have refunded the money Mr and Mrs G 
paid to them in 2018 and 2019.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premiums paid by Mr and Mrs G in 2018 
and 2019. And because Mr and Mrs G have been without this money, Triton should pay 
interest on the payments at 8% simple. This interest should be calculated from the date the 
payments were made up to the date Triton refund it. 
Mr G had to make his own enquiries with the insurer as there had been no communication 
from Triton. And it was only as a result of Mr Gs enquiries that he found out their house was 
un-insured. Because of this upset, its also reasonable for Triton to pay Mr and Mrs G £100 
compensation. I think this amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mr and Mrs G their premium of £643.94 for renewing the policy in 2018;
Pay interest at 8% simple on the amount due from the date Mr and Mrs G paid for 
their insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mr and Mrs G their premium of £733.03 for renewing the policy in 2019;
Pay interest at 8% simple on the amount due from the date Mr and Mrs G paid for 
their insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation for the upset theyve been caused.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mr and Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman