DRN-2043339
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited mishandled her legal expenses insurance 
claim.
Legal and General were the underwriter of Mrs Ss legal expenses policy before becoming 
part of Fairmead Insurance. For ease of reference, I will refer only to Legal and General 
throughout this decision. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs Ss concerns appear to centre predominantly around the conduct of the solicitors 
(whom I will refer to as Firm D) that were appointed to act on her behalf. But as the 
investigator has already highlighted, Legal and General are the legal expenses 
insurance provider, not the suitably qualified expert dealing with the case. As such, 
the remit of this service extends only to assessing the insurers handling of the claim 
in light of the policy terms to determine whether theyve fulfilled their obligations 
reasonably, and treated Mrs S fairly. Were unable to consider the acts or omissions 
of a law firm as they are regulated by a different body.
 I appreciate Mrs S feels she was not adequately supported by Legal and General. 
And a legal expenses insurer would generally be expected to assist the policyholder 
in making a complaint about their appointed solicitor if they had been made aware of 
concerns (although they wouldnt be expected to investigate such a complaint for the 
reasons already outlined above). However, I cannot see that Mrs S fully disclosed 
her concerns about Firm D to Legal and General. I can see that they called Mrs Ss 
representative on 9 May 2019 to discuss her complaint, for example, but they were 
told that he did not want to discuss it at that point. But they still wrote to Firm D on the 
same day to lodge a complaint in any event, so Im not persuaded that Legal and 
General failed to assist Mrs S with her complaint. 
I also understand that Legal and General initially sought to decline Mrs Ss claim. But 
they later agreed to grant the indemnity following further information. An insurer is 
entitled to ask for evidence to test and determine whether a claim is covered. Indeed, 
it is a generally accepted principle of insurance that the onus is on the policyholder to 
prove the claim. And once Mrs S provided the necessary information, Legal and 
General agreed to cover the claim and also waived the applicable excess. I consider 
this to be fair compensation for recognising the trouble and upset caused by their 
initial decision to decline the claim which, in any event, I do not consider to be an 
overly unfair decision at the time based on the evidence that was available.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs S, and if she remains unhappy 
with her solicitors then she should report her concerns to the Legal Ombudsman if she 
hasnt done so already. But based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Legal 
and General  as the insurer  have mishandled her claim in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman