DRN-2833590
The complaint
Mrs M complains that esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels (esure) didnt fairly 
handle her claim for water damage on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M had a leak in her en suite bathroom in late July 2020. It caused damage to the 
bathroom floor and the living room ceiling. 
She reported the claim to esure in late August 2020. But esure didnt send its loss adjuster to 
assess the damage until 28 September 2020. Mrs M felt that this assessment had taken too 
long. And she felt that the loss adjuster was rude and dismissive. She also felt that he didnt 
have the information he shouldve had about her claim.
So Mrs M complained to esure. esure upheld her complaint. It acknowledged there was a 
delay between receiving notification of the claim in late August 2020 and the damage 
inspection on 28 September 2020. It agreed the claim had taken longer than it shouldve 
done. It also agreed that the loss adjuster shouldve had the relevant background 
information. It paid Mrs M £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
But esure said that it couldnt comment on the behaviour of its loss adjuster as it didnt
witness what he said. And it said that itd agreed with Mrs M that she would get her builder to 
provide more detail about why her ceiling needed fuller repairs than its loss adjuster had 
suggested. This information hasnt been provided as Mrs M doesnt feel she can ask a 
builder she wont use to do more work. And she said didnt agree to provide this information. 
Unhappy with its response, Mrs M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
her complaint. He felt that esure had provided appropriate compensation for the claim delay 
and the claims handling issues. And he thought it was reasonable for esure to ask for 
something in writing from Mrs Ms builder to explain why they didnt think its suggested 
repairs were sufficient.
Mrs M didnt agree. So her complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three strands to this complaint. Theres the delay to the claim, the attitude of the 
loss adjuster, and the dispute over the suitability of esures suggested repairs. Ive 
considered all three aspects. Having done so, Im not going to uphold the complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided and, if I havent specifically referred to a point that Mrs M or esure have 
made it isnt because I havent considered it. 
The proposed repair work
Theres no dispute that water damage occurred to Mrs Ms ceiling. However, theres a 
dispute between Mrs M, esure and its appointed agents about the correct outcome of this 
claim. esure has proposed to settle Mrs Ms claim by a patch repair, sanding and painting. It 
said this would cost £155.07. Its paid this amount in settlement.
But Mrs M doesnt feel that proposal is adequate. She feels that a ceiling panel needs 
replacing. And that the ceiling should be re-plastered and painted. Shes had this costed at 
£505. She feels that esures proposed repairs wont cover the damage. So shed like it to 
either carry out the repairs she feels are needed or pay her the additional £350.07 so that 
she can arrange the repair work.
In determining whether esure acted reasonably in offering to settle Mrs Ms claim Ive 
carefully considered the evidence from both parties.
Given Mrs Ms dissatisfaction with the scope of works recommended, esure explained to her 
that it needed to understand from her builder why they didnt think a patch repair, sanding 
and painting would work.
But Mrs M told esure: it is not fair to ask for further quotes in the middle of a pandemic. 
So esure told Mrs M it only needed the following: In relation to the additional information 
we've requested. [Name] asked for comments from your builder as to why the job isn't a 
patch repair, I can't see that he's asked you to obtain further quotations. We only need the 
rationale from your builder so that we can review this further for you.
Mrs M responded: As I explained I'm trying and failing to get such a letter and the burden to 
try and get one you're putting on me is incredibly unreasonable.
While I empathise with Mrs Ms position, I can only form an opinion on this complaint based 
on the evidence before me. And, as Mrs M hasnt provided esure, or our service, with any 
evidence discrediting esures loss adjusters opinion as to the repair work required to put her 
property right, I cant fairly conclude that esure did anything wrong.
While Ive taken on board everything Mrs M has said about this complaint, I havent seen 
any evidence to demonstrate that the repair work esure has proposed in resolution of this 
claim is inappropriate. So I cant ask it to do any more in relation to the proposed repair 
work.
The loss adjusters attitude and the claim delay 
From what Mrs M has said, esures loss adjuster didnt act as she expected. She felt he was 
rude and dismissive of her claim. esure acknowledge that some information that couldve 
been helpful to him wasnt passed on to him before his assessment visit.
But from his report, I can see that he felt he needed to ask the questions he asked to work 
out what damage related to this claim and what damage related to a previous declined claim. 
I dont consider that it was wrong of him to ask such questions. 
Unfortunately, as Ive seen two different versions of the assessment visit from the two parties 
involved, I dont have clear evidence to say that the loss adjuster behaved badly. So I cant 
ask esure to do anything about this part of Mrs Ms complaint.esure has acknowledged that the claim took them too long to resolve. It paid Mrs M £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience the delays and its overall claims handling 
caused. 
I understand that Mrs M is still living with some damage related to the claim, many months 
after first notifying esure of her claim. This must be frustrating. But esure made an offer its 
loss adjuster felt was suitable to fix the damage to the living room ceiling. And Ive seen no 
evidence from Mrs Ms builder showing why esures offer is unsuitable. So I dont have the 
evidence to hold esure responsible for the extended delay to the repair work.
I also note that esure has told this service that it would be happy to arrange for the company 
the loss adjuster works for to be sent out to complete the stated work. Although it noted that 
Mrs M may prefer not to use that company given how she felt about the assessment visit. 
But if that would be acceptable to Mrs M, esure would be happy to arrange it.
So I consider that the £200 esure has already paid Mrs M is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of her complaint. 
Looking at the complaint as a whole, Ive seen no evidence that esure needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman