DRN-4134323
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) declined his debit card 
transactions when he attempted to buy premium bonds from abroad. 
What happened
Mr A has a premium bond account with NS&I and a UK bank account, to which he is entitled 
though he lives abroad. He said that on trying to use his bank debit cards to deposit money 
the online and phone transactions with NS&I were declined. He said NS&I told him to 
contact his bank, or that there could be a mismatch with his address. 
Mr A said his bank told him NS&I had withdrawn from the transactions and the bank marked 
his account to authorise the payments. Mr A found that NS&I continued to put the blame on 
his bank, but he didnt think they understood what was happening. He complained and said 
hed made a deposit to NS&I with his debit card previously when in the UK. 
NS&I said its debit card payment process is automated, and it requests funds from a 
customers bank in response to a purchase order using the customers debit card details. 
NS&I said the processing company doesnt tell it the reason a transaction is declined, but if 
any details are inconsistent the card issuer will decline the transaction, and this is often the 
problem. NS&I said it was pleased the transaction had been completed by bank transfer. 
Mr A said NS&I hadnt investigated properly. He said NS&I presumes hes content to 
transact by bank transfer, but he doesnt want to call from abroad each time; he wants the 
protection of using his debit card. He said as theres no explanation for the failure of the 
transactions and NS&I offer a payment service that doesnt work. Mr A wants NS&I to fix the 
issue so he can use his debit card to deposit money with it in future.
As he wasnt satisfied, Mr A referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that it be upheld as he didnt think NS&I was responsible for the delays and he 
didnt think there had been a significant impact on Mr A. The investigator said Mr As account 
showed successful payments when he was in the UK and evidence from NS&I indicated 
there might be an issue with post code validation by the card provider. He said Mr A would 
need to rectify any problems of this nature directly with his bank.
Mr A disagreed and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He said there was a 
significant impact on him as bank transfers dont have the safeguards of a debit card and he 
had to make calls at his expense to confirm transfer details. Mr A felt we had dismissed his 
concerns too easily and shown bias. He said his post code at his bank and NS&I matched as 
both parties had confirmed, and his bank had indicated the problem lay with NS&I. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has raised complaints about the other parties involved in his unsuccessful transactions 
with NS&I, as he wants to discover the reason why the transactions failed. This decision 
focusses only on his complaint about NS&I.
Mr A provided the response to his complaint from his bank which confirms that it authorised 
his payment requests, but couldnt provide further insight as to the possible cause. It said it 
had authorised the payment, but the barrier to its successful completion was no longer 
available and it paid Mr A some small compensation.  
The screenshots from NS&Is smart pay logs about the transactions show, sale cancelled 
before processing. NS&I has explained that this confirms that the sale was cancelled before 
NS&I was able to carry it out. NS&I said this was because the company processing the 
transaction had declined it. NS&I said the decline would have followed on from the 
processing companys AVS checks (Address Verification Service). This is supported by 
further NS&I screenshots that show the transaction had been, Declined by [the processing 
company] - operation cancelled.  
NS&Is records include the smart pay reports which show the post code field didnt match 
with what Mr As bank holds. And so, when NS&I requested the funds, it would appear that 
the processing company stopped the transaction due to the post code difference. This is 
understandable as the details need to match for security reasons. I havent found anything 
within NS&Is records that indicate a problem with its processes that needs to be fixed.
I appreciate Mr As frustrations in trying to make the card payments for his premium bond 
transactions. But he has been able to arrange a bank transfer to make these purchases and 
there doesnt appear to have been any financial detriment by using this approach. I can see 
that this isnt Mr As preferred method, but he hasnt missed out on prize draws or incurred 
anything other than minor cost.
I think there are safeguards in making bank transfers via the BACS process which make the 
movement of funds between parties a safe means of transfer. I think it possible this would 
need to be accompanied by a single phone call from Mr A to pass security, but this can also 
be a requirement for security purposes for a card transaction. Consequently, I agree with the 
investigator that there has only what could reasonably be described as a minor impact on Mr 
A for having to use bank transfer as opposed to debit card for his premium bond purchases.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman