DRN-3962080
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) handling of a claim made under 
her commercial insurance policy.
Any references to Ageas include its agents.
 
What happened
In November 2021 Mrs C contacted Ageas to let them know about some damage to the 
bathroom of their rental property. In early December, Mrs C was told an inspection had been 
arranged. Mrs C contacted Ageas after the inspection took place to find out what theyd 
found. 
Between mid-December and the end of January, Mrs C contacted Ageas a number of times 
asking for an update. Her tenants were renting a property which meant they didnt have 
access to the shower. Mrs C says in mid-February, she was provided with a scope of works 
but says this missed a number of repairs that needed to be carried out. Mrs C says she was 
assured the missed works would be carried out. In March, Mrs C was told by the loss 
adjuster a leak detection survey needed to be carried out. In April, Mrs C logged a complaint 
about the delays in handling the claim so far.
Repairs began in June 2022, six months after the claim had been logged. Mrs C said in July 
2022, she received a refund for the costs shed paid. When it responded to her complaint, 
Ageas acknowledged the handling of the claim, or communication about the claim hadnt 
been acceptable. It said it would send £350 compensation separate. Mrs C didnt think this 
response went far enough to put things right and responded to Ageas. However, it didnt 
reply to her, but logged a further complaint, where it offered a further £100 compensation for 
the reimbursing Mrs C the amount she paid after she organised the repairs herself. 
Unhappy with Ageas response, Mrs C referred her complaint to this service. To put things 
right she said she wanted to be reimbursed for the reduction in rental income her tenants 
paid, to be reimbursed for the monitoring fee they had to pay and for the compensation 
offered in the final response letter to be sent. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He recommended the 
compensation be increased by a further £100 and that it reimburses her for the monitoring 
fee she paid, as Ageas hasnt provided any clarification as to why Mrs C had been asked to 
pay this. Finally, our investigator said Ageas should contribute towards the reduced rental 
income, and this should be for two thirds of the timeframe the rental income was reduced by 
20%. 
Mrs C accepted our investigators conclusion. Ageas confirmed it received the conclusions 
and asked for more time to respond. But it didnt provide any information within the 
timeframe set, so this case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start here by clarifying Im satisfied Ageas has been provided with sufficient 
opportunity to respond to the conclusions set out by our investigator. On 1 February it asked 
for an extension to respond, which our investigator granted. Our investigator sent another 
email on 9 February, asking for a response. As none was received, our investigator provided 
one last opportunity for Ageas to respond to his conclusion. But no reply was forthcoming. 
In considering the information provided, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and for the same reasons. Ill start with the point about the monitoring fee. I cant 
see why Mrs C has been charged this. It seems clear from the file her preference was for 
Ageas to arrange the repairs, but she eventually arranged these when it appeared Ageas 
would not do so. Theres no obvious reason why Mrs C has been charged for a monitoring 
fee, and with no comments to support why it was charged, Im unable to conclude it was fair 
for Ageas to charge this. To put things right, I require Ageas to refund the total amount Mrs 
C was charged for the monitoring fee, along with 8% simple interest from the first date this 
was paid until the refund is made. 
Turning now to the reduced rental income, Im also minded to agree Ageas should contribute 
towards this. As our investigator said, its difficult to know for certain how long the claim 
would have taken but for the delays Ageas accepted responsibility for. While Mrs C has said 
the shower was out of action, it doesnt appear the entire bathroom was unable to be used 
by her tenants, apart from during the repairs when alternative arrangements were made. 
And, despite being given three separate opportunities to do so, Ageas hasnt provided any 
reason why it shouldnt contribute to the loss of rental income Mrs C says she incurred. 
On the basis its clear Ageas acknowledges responsibility for avoidable delays in 
progressing the claim, I agree its fair it contributes to some of the financial loss Mrs C says 
she incurred. Im going to require Ageas to reimburse Mrs C the cost of two thirds of the 
overall reduction Mrs C says she agreed with her tenants. If Ageas requires proof of the 
reduction to calculate how much it should pay Mrs C, she should provide this. 
Ive also considered whether the investigators overall recommendation for compensation of 
£550 is fair and reasonable. Im satisfied it is. Its clear Mrs C needed to frequently follow up 
on the progress of the claim, experienced delays in its resolution and eventually had to pay 
for the repairs herself when Ageas didnt arrange them. Im satisfied £550 fairly reflects the 
impact this matter had on her. Ageas should pay a total compensation payment of £550, less 
anything its already paid for the trouble and upset experienced. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right, I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Refund the total amount Mrs C paid for the monitoring fee. Interest* should be added 
at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date Mrs C paid this until the date of 
settlement.
Reimburse Mrs C two thirds of the 20% rental reduction she agreed with her tenants. 
If required, Mrs C should provide evidence to assist Ageas with calculating the 
amount owed.
Pay Mrs C a total of £550 compensation, less anything thats already been paid.  
*If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. If requested, Ageas should also provide Mrs C with a certificate showing the amount deducted, 
so she can reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman