DRN-3667585
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc wont agree to remove a marker against his
name on a fraud prevention database - CIFAS. TSB added the marker in connection with a 
mortgage application Mr M made.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat
them again here in detail. Instead Ill summarise the main facts that I consider to be
fundamental to the outcome and focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
In 2018 Mr M applied for mortgage with TSB. He used payslips that suggested he was 
employed by a company earning a regular salary with income tax deducted at source. TSB 
was concerned about the legitimacy of the payslips because it couldnt verify the income 
declared on Mr Ms payslips following its standard underwriting checks. So, it declined the 
mortgage and recorded a CIFAS marker against him. 
Mr M accepts he used false payslips. He says that the payslips were produced by a broker. 
He was young and nave at the time and relied on the negligent advice of the broker to use 
false payslips during an application to obtain a mortgage. 
Mr M says it wasnt his intention to mis-represent his income. Hes provided bank statements 
and a memorandum of agreement, which he says, proves he did earn the amount declared 
on the payslips - from a joint venture with his father, consisting of various companies 
including the one shown on the payslips. But while he says he did receive this amount of 
income, he accepts that he didnt receive it as a salary as indicted on the payslips and 
therefore that the payslips misrepresented the nature and source of his income at the time.
TSB said it was satisfied the CIFAS marker was correctly applied as Mr Ms income couldnt 
be verified at the time. But, if Mr M could provide full employment history information from 
HMRC for the period in question, showing that the payslips were genuine, then it would 
consider his request to remove the marker ahead of the standard six-year reporting period. 
Mr M couldnt provide this information. 
In the absence of such information, TSB didnt agree to remove the marker. Mr M brought 
his complaint to our service through a legal representative. An investigator looked into things 
and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the CIFAS marker had been correctly applied 
and didnt think TSB should remove it early in the circumstances. 
Mr Ms representative said whilst Mr M did not disagree with our investigators findings, 
he wants TSB to use its discretion to remove the marker early considering his current 
circumstances. Our investigator considered Mr Ms response, but his position remained the 
same. As an agreement hasnt been reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
CIFAS issues principles for its members which set out the standard of proof to be applied in 
making an entry on the database. The standard to be applied is that TSB should have had 
clear, relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could confidently report the matter to the 
authorities should it choose to do so  so the standard is not proof of fraud or a criminal 
conviction, but reasonable suspicion of fraud.
Im satisfied Mr M knowingly used false payslips when he applied for the mortgage. Genuine 
payslips are supplied by an employer, which wasnt the case here. Mr M says he was sent 
payslips produced by his broker to use during his mortgage application. So, he knew they 
werent genuine. So, when considering the CIFAS principles, Im satisfied it was fair and 
reasonable for TSB to record the marker. Thats because its clear that the reason Mr Ms 
income couldnt be verified at the time was because he was not receiving the pay he claimed 
from the company he said was paying him  and so it would have been fair for TSB to 
conclude there were reasonable grounds to believe hed deliberately misled it when making 
the application.
The starting point here is that if a CIFAS marker is justified, it remains on the database for 
six years. TSB is only expected to remove the marker early if: 
The CIFAS marker was wrongly applied from the outset; or
New information has come to light, which had it been known sooner, means the 
CIFAS marker should not have been applied. 
TSB was willing to consider removing the marker if Mr M could provide information from 
HMRC to confirm his historic earnings. The reason for this was to verify whether the payslips 
provided were genuine, suggesting the marker was incorrectly applied. The lack of relevant 
information available from HMRC suggests this not to be the case. And, indeed, Mr M 
accepts that it was not the case. As such Ive seen nothing that suggests either of the above 
criteria has been met. So, TSB is under no obligation to remove the marker early. 
Mr Ms representative has recently provided a letter from Mr Ms solicitor that explains why 
he was advised not to declare any tax during the period in question. In their opinion this 
explains why HMRC has returned limited information for that period. Ive not placed much 
weight on this as it has no bearing on whether the payslips used were genuine. 
The key consideration here isnt about whether Mr Ms earnings were legitimate through 
other means and/or any tax implications that may apply as result. Its about whether he 
misled TSB into thinking his income circumstances were of a different nature. Which was the 
case here and the reason the CIFAS marker was applied.
But while it was fair for TSB to record the marker and theres no obligation to remove it early, 
Ive also thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to 
ask it to remove it. Ive borne in mind what Mr M has said about his changed circumstances 
since the marker was put on, the impact its continuing to have on him, and that he wants to 
be able to put this behind him and move on with his life. Im not unsympathetic to that. The 
presence of a marker can have serious consequences throughout the time its on the 
database. But I also have to bear in mind that there are good reasons why the database 
exists  including allowing information to be shared across the industry to prevent fraud, 
which protects both firms and consumers. On balance, Im not persuaded that the impact the 
marker is having on Mr M is enough for me to say that TSB ought fairly to remove it early 
even though its justified.For reasons Ive explained, Ive seen no evidence that verifies the payslips used were 
genuine or anything that excuses false payslips being used to try and obtain a mortgage. 
Ultimately if Mr Ms income was legitimate, its unclear why hed go to lengths of using false 
payslips. As such I dont think TSB has unfairly applied the CIFAS marker or unfairly 
exercised its discretion when deciding not to remove the CIFAS marker early. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman