DRN-1464557
The complaint
Mr J complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) applied an additional 
policy excess when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to pay the 
full excess. Mr J is represented in this matter by Mr K.
What happened
Mr Js wife, a named driver on Mr Js policy, had a car accident and Mr J made a claim. Mr J 
had his car repaired at a garage of his choice that provided a courtesy car. This wasnt an 
LV approved garage, so LV said Mr J had to pay £200 additional excess as well as his £350 
policy excess. LV later offered Mr J £100 as a gesture of goodwill, but he was unhappy with 
that.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
additional excess for a non-approved garage was clearly set out on the policy documents 
sent to Mr J at renewal. So he thought LV was entitled by the policy terms and conditions to 
charge it. He thought its goodwill offer was fair. 
Mr K replied that the increased excess was an unfair term in the insurance contract. He 
quoted laws and principles he said it breached. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J said that LV arranged for an approved repairer to make an estimate for the repairs 
needed to his car. But Mr J said he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under his policy, and he 
needed a car due to his family circumstances. So he obtained an estimate from a non-
approved garage that agreed to loan him a car and LV approved the estimate. Mr J was then 
asked to pay £550 excess rather than the £350 he was expecting. 
I can understand that this must have been a shock for Mr J. I was sorry to hear of effects of 
the accident and this on his family. 
LV said, in its response to Mr Js complaint, that there had been a change in the policy 
excess. It said that if a non-approved repairer was used, then it would charge an extra £200 
additional excess. It said this was set out in Mr Js renewal documents. 
A motor insurance policy is an annual policy and I think insurers are entitled to make 
changes in the terms and conditions. But Id expect them to be clearly brought to the 
consumers attention so that they can make an informed choice about buying the policy.
Ive looked at the renewal invitation sent to Mr J a month before his policy expired. This told 
him that there had been changes to the policy and he should check that it still met his needs. 
One of these, highlighted by bold print, was that LV would charge an extra £200 excess for 
not using a recommended repairer. This was explained in detail in a sidebar in the 
document. There was also an option for having a courtesy car whilst repairs were made, but 
Mr J hadnt chosen this. 
I can see that this extra excess was also repeated on the renewal schedule, on page 2 of 4, 
in bold. This was sent to Mr J a week before the policy started and I think he could then have 
cancelled with no charge if the policy didnt suit his needs.
So I think LV sufficiently brought the change in excess to Mr Js attention. I think it was for 
him to read his policy documents and decide whether the policy suited his needs. So I think 
LV acted fairly and reasonably. I cant say that the additional excess was an unfair term or 
that the policy was mis-sold. 
Mr J chose to use a non-recommended garage. And so I cant say that LV has done 
anything wrong in asking Mr J to pay the £200 additional excess as well as the £350 policy 
excess. 
LV offered Mr J £100 as a gesture of goodwill. As far as I can see, this was because it 
wasnt able to estimate how long the repairs at the approved garage would take and this 
caused Mr J inconvenience. I think that was very fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
dont require LV to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman