DRN-3004602
Complaint
Miss O has complained about an overdraft Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) provided 
to her. She says the overdraft was unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Halifax provided Miss O with a student overdraft for £1,000.00 in February 2017. The 
overdraft was to be interest and fee free for at least the duration of Miss Os studies provided 
she stayed within her limit.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss O and Halifax had told us. And she thought 
Halifax hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss O unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Miss Os complaint be upheld. Miss O disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Os complaint.
Halifax needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Halifax needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss O 
could afford to repay before providing any credit. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Halifax says it agreed to Miss Os application after carried out a credit search. On the other 
hand, Miss O says she had defaulted a number of times on previous credit and so shouldnt 
have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss O and Halifax have said. 
I have to start by saying that Miss O was borrowing a relatively low amount and wouldnt 
have had to pay any interest or charges for some time provided that she kept within her 
overdraft limit. I think this is important context to bear in mind in this particular case.
I accept that Halifax searches may not have picked up everything about Miss Os 
circumstances. But having looked at the copy of Miss Os full credit file, which she provided 
us with, Im satisfied that there were a number of defaults present at the time and Halifax 
would have seen at least some of this. 
That said, Im mindful of what Miss O has said about her circumstances at the time and that 
she was entering full time education. And in these circumstances, where she was unlikely to 
earn for some time, its difficult for me to agree that agreeing this overdraft was wholly 
unreasonable given it would provide her with some breathing space and was a far better 
alternative to any other alternative sources of credit Miss O would more likely than not have 
turned to.  
So overall while I do have some concerns that Halifax doesnt appear to have placed much 
weight on Miss Os credit file at the time, bearing in mind the circumstances and the type of 
facility it agreed to, I dont think that Halifax treated Miss O unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with an interest free overdraft. And Im not upholding Miss Os complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss O  especially as she has referred to 
having had complaints about irresponsible lending on other products upheld. But I hope 
shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman