DRN-4223088
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Blue Motor Finance Ltd, who Ill call BMF. 
What happened
I issued a couple of provisional decisions on this complaint earlier this year. An extract from 
the most recent provisional decision is set out below.
I know it will disappoint BMF, but Im expecting to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr A. The car here was already
about nine years old and had completed 75,124 miles. So, I think a reasonable person
wouldnt expect it to be fault free, as would perhaps be the case with a brand new car.
The relevant legislation gave Mr A a right to reject the car within 30 days if there was
something wrong with it. The 30 days run from the date of delivery and if, as was the case
here, the consumer agrees to a repair, a waiting period starts on the day of request and
ends on the day the consumer gets the car back.
Mr A has provided copies of WhatsApp messages with the dealer. On 24 March 2022, 3
days after Mr A took receipt of the car, he complained that the dealer had only fixed one
problem of the four he had referred to him. Mr A attached a photograph to that WhatsApp,
showing a scratch over the back door/wheel arch.
On 3 April 2022 a further WhatsApp message to the dealer says How long to check the car
problem? Its been three days. I am struggling without car, fix it for me everything or give me
my deposit back {sic}. The WhatsApp message trail shows an image of the front grill of the
car. Its not possible from that image to see whats wrong with the grill but other photographs
provided by Mr A suggest he was concerned the grill was cracked; I note the independent
inspector identified that issue too.
So, I think Mr A had reported faults with the car within the first thirty days and it seems that
the dealership did try to repair the issues but didnt repair all of them. In those circumstances
the relevant legislation would allow Mr A to reject the car.
And, even if Im wrong about that, when we consider whether a car has been of satisfactory
quality, the relevant legislation asks us to consider whether it has been durable. Mr A says
he was concerned about a clutch problem with the car from the beginning. Ive not seen
evidence he referred the problem to the dealer initially, but he says he did, and the
WhatsApp messages suggest they were looking at other issues. I think thats likely as the
report from the RAC on 24 May 2022 after Mr A had only completed 1,400 miles in the car,
confirms the presence of a judder in 1st and reverse and a suspected clutch fault that
was corroborated by a third party garage in July 2022, and also seems to have been
corroborated by another third party garage on 25 March 2022 (although the report is difficult
to read, and the provenance of the report is perhaps questionable).
On balance, Im persuaded the clutch failed on this car at least within the first 1,500 miles.
Thats resulted in a repair bill of about £1,200 on a car that cost a little less than £8,000 and I
dont think a reasonable person would consider the car had therefore been durable.
So, Im not persuaded this car has been of satisfactory quality.
Im expecting to tell BMF to collect the car at no cost to Mr A and to end the finance
agreement.
Theyll need to refund Mr As deposit and to add interest to that refund as Mr A has been
deprived of the money.
I think its fair that Mr A should pay for the use hes had from the car. It appears that despite
the problems with the clutch, he had reasonable use of the vehicle until at least 15 July 2022
when the clutch fault was diagnosed by a third party garage. At that point the car had
completed 80,272 miles, or 5,148 miles in Mr As possession, which is more than average
use. Mr A hasnt been able to use the car since then, however; so BMF should refund any
finance instalments hes paid since that date or waive any that were due and havent been
paid. They will need to add interest to any refund.
Mr A wouldnt have had to pay for diagnostic reports if the car was of satisfactory quality. So,
if Mr A has had to pay for any of the diagnostics that have been carried out, BMF will need to
refund those costs if Mr A can provide receipts.
Mr A has described the distress and inconvenience these issues have caused him. Hes
explained that hes had to borrow his fathers car to complete deliveries for work, and hes
had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier.
In the circumstances, I think BMF should pay him £250 in compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Blue Motor
Finance Ltd to:
Allow Mr A to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr A.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest per year from thedate of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments that have been paid since 15 July 2022 and waive
any that were due from this time and havent been paid, in respect of loss of use. Add
8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of any diagnostics Mr A has had to pay for and that he can evidence.
Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr A £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr As credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Additional comments or evidence
BMF had nothing further to add but Mr A did provide some further evidence. He said he was
happy for the car to be returned but wanted to explain that he hadnt had the clutch repaired
and had been driving the car, carefully, since. The mileage had increased to 99,000,
although the problem with the clutch persisted. Mr A said the compensation I had suggested
wasnt enough and he explained that hed changed the battery, fitted new tyres, had the car
serviced, and MOTd, and had sacrificed a lot financially due to the condition of the car.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wasnt aware that Mr A had continued to use the car and that the mileage had therefore
increased significantly. I was also unaware that he hadnt had the clutch repaired. I think that
new evidence changes the redress I suggested in my original provisional decision.
In that decision I explained that I thought Mr A should pay for the use hed had from the car.
Hes now explained that hes driven about 24,000 miles since he took receipt of it in March
2022. Thats much higher than the average mileage in the UK and I therefore think Mr A has
had fair use of the car for the period hes been in charge of it and that BMF should be
allowed to retain all the finance instalments paid. That usage may have been impaired by
clutch problems, but Im not currently persuaded to tell BMF to refund any finance
instalments in respect of impaired use either as I think Mr A is likely to have damaged the
car further by using it when it was broken. I think the impaired use Mr A has had from the car
is therefore likely to be offset by the damage hes likely to have done to it.
That doesnt, however, change my view that BMF should have allowed him to reject the car
as hed asked to reject it within 30 days and the issues he reported werent all repaired.
Ive thought about what Mr A has had to say about the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced. Whilst he may have replaced some items on his car, the items hes referred to
are those that I would expect the consumer to perhaps need to replace through normal wear
and tear. They are not therefore the responsibility of BMF. It was Mr As responsibility to
have the car MOTd and serviced and as hes continued to use the car, and has had fair use
from it, I dont think those expenses should be refunded by BMF or that they would lead me
to consider a higher payment for distress and inconvenience.My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Blue Motor
Finance Ltd to:
Allow Mr A to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr A.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of any diagnostics Mr A has had to pay for and that he can evidence.
Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr A £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr As credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for
one.
Further additional comments or evidence
Mr A accepted my further provisional decision and BMF didnt provide any additional 
comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with any additional information that would lead me to change my 
provisional decision on this complaint. 
Putting things right
That most recent provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
Allow Mr A to reject the car and end the finance agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr A.
Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the cost of any diagnostics Mr A has had to pay for and that he can evidence.
Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr A £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr As credit file in relation to
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks forone.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman