DRN-3598721
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society acted unfairly when it recorded a default on
his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said;
Mr L had a current account with Nationwide that had an overdraft facility of £3,000 in 2011. 
Mr L has explained he moved home in 2012 and had switched his day to day banking to 
another provider some years before. Mr Ls address wasnt updated with Nationwide.
The account remained open and Nationwide carried out reviews of the overdraft facility 
every six months. By January 2014 the overdraft limit was £1,700. In the same month a 
direct debit for £330 was collected and the account received its final credit of £285. That 
left a balance of £58.66 in Mr Ls account.
Mr Ls account remained in credit until a direct debit payment was collected in June 2014. 
In June 2015 Nationwide applied a no trace marker to Mr Ls account after post was 
returned undelivered. At this point, the overdraft facility was £1,700 and the balance was 
overdrawn by £53.75. Interest was applied monthly and the balance owed increased, in the 
main, due to direct debits collected roughly every six months. Nationwide says it stopped 
sending Mr L statements because of the no trace marker applied to his account.
The overdraft limit reduced over time following reviews by Nationwide and by April 2017 it 
was £250. But due to the direct debit payments collected, Mr Ls account balance 
exceeded the new credit limit. Nationwide sent Mr L letters about his overdraft position 
along with a default notice and formal demand in the months that followed. But the letters 
went to the address Nationwide retained on file, so Mr L didnt receive them. The account 
was closed and a default was recorded in October 2017.
In 2021 Mr L says he found the default when applying for a mortgage. Mr L went on to 
complain and Nationwide sent him two final responses. Nationwide didnt agree it had 
acted unfairly by applying the default to Mr Ls credit file. Nationwide said Mr Ls account 
was run in line with the overdraft limits until April 2017 and that letters had been sent to try 
make contact. Nationwide said the account was correctly closed and a default recorded.
An investigator at this service looked into Mr Ls complaint but felt Nationwide had dealt 
with it fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr L asked to appeal and said his account 
had effectively been dormant since 2013 and that Nationwide had unfairly allowed old 
direct debits to be collected. Mr L has explained he thinks the account shouldve been 
closed in 2015 when it was overdrawn by £115 and the no trace marker was added. Mr L 
also said Nationwide shouldve done more to try and trace him when post was returned in 
2015, in line with the rules. As Mr L asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
involved and Ive done so in my own words. I want to assure both parties that Ive read and 
considered all the information provided in reaching my decision. Im not going to respond to 
every point made by all the parties. No discourtesy is intended by my approach. Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues in this complaint.
My approach is in line with the informal nature of this service as a free alternative to the 
courts and the rules we operate under. If I havent mentioned something it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every argument made to 
be able to reach what I think is the fairest outcome.
Mr L appears to accept he didnt update his address with Nationwide when he moved in 
2012. I understand Mr L feels his account was in a dormant position from 2013, but the 
information available doesnt show that to be the case. The statements show that whilst the 
account wasnt in regular use, direct debits were being claimed and credits were being 
applied. The last credit to Mr Ls account I can see was for £285 in January 2014 and, at 
that point, the account was not overdrawn.
The majority of the balance owed came about through two direct debits, one for a 
professional membership and the other for a leisure membership. Whilst some interest was 
added by Nationwide, it was the direct debits that caused Mr Ls account to go overdrawn. 
Mr L has told us these were old direct debits, but Ive not seen anything that shows he 
notified Nationwide not to pay them. Mr L could also have cancelled the direct debits with 
the providers. Given the account was open and operating within its credit limit, I think 
Nationwide acted fairly by continuing to pay the direct debit payments requested.
It took from January 2014 to October 2017 of Mr Ls account being in an overdrawn 
position for it to be closed and defaulted. I understand Mr L feels this shouldve been 
completed when the no trace marker was recorded in 2015. But at that stage, there was 
no grounds to close his account or record a default. In June 2015 Mr Ls account was 
overdrawn by £115.30 against an overdraft limit of £1,700. So the account was operating 
in line with the agreed limits. The main issue was that Mr Ls post had been returned and 
Nationwide recorded a no trace marker. But that, in itself, isnt grounds to close an account 
and record a default.
Nationwide has provided evidence to show how it reviewed Mr Ls overdraft limit over time. I 
can see the limit was reduced in stages between April 2015 and April 2017 when it reached
£250. The reason no collections activity began prior to that point was because the 
account was still being run in line with the agreed limits with direct debits being honoured 
on Mr Ls behalf. It was only when the final reduction to £250 took place in April 2017, 
when Mr Ls account was £280 overdrawn, that the move to close it started. Given Mr Ls 
account was operating in line with the agreed limits until that point, I havent found 
evidence of an unreasonable delay.
Mr L has told us he feels Nationwide failed in its duty of care as it didnt do enough to 
contact him when it applied the no trace marker to his account and stopped sending 
statements.
Mr L has highlighted BCOBS 4.2.1 that says a business can stop sending statements if it 
believes a customer is no longer resident at the registered address and its not practical, after reasonable inquiry, to ascertain their new address. Mr L says theres no evidence that 
Nationwide made reasonable inquiry to ascertain his new address and that, had it done so, 
it wouldve traced him and resolved this situation before a default was recorded.
I take Mr Ls point and agree the rules required Nationwide to make reasonable attempts 
to trace him before it stopped sending statements. I understand no up to date telephone 
numbers or email addresses were recorded on Mr Ls profile and he didnt use online 
banking. That meant Nationwides options were limited.
However, I note Nationwide was monitoring Mr Ls credit file both before and after it applied 
the no trace marker. And its clear it was able to find information about Mr Ls 
circumstances there that was used to make decisions about the overdraft limit. And there 
are other methods businesses can use to trace customers. Whilst it may not have been part 
of Nationwides standard process to that here, it doesnt automatically mean that following 
its normal approach led to a fair outcome in the individual circumstances of Mr Ls case.
As I see it, Nationwide was aware Mr L wasnt resident at the address on file going back to 
June 2015. And whilst I accept its required to send default letters in the post, its difficult to 
argue there was any benefit to Mr L given Nationwide knew he wouldnt receive them. In 
my view, Nationwide knew or shouldve known Mr L wouldnt receive important 
correspondence like its default notice and formal demand when it sent them to his old 
address.
Given the overall value of the default, along with the account use, I think it would have 
been proportionate and fair in the individual circumstances of Mr Ls case for Nationwide 
to have done more than its normal process to try and trace him. A default is something 
that may have a serious impact on a customers financial position. And Im not persuaded 
the default accurately reflects Mr Ls credit worthiness. Thats especially the case here as 
Im satisfied the issues raised came about due to an oversight rather than an 
unwillingness or inability to pay.
Had Nationwide traced and contacted Mr L either prior to its decision to stop sending 
statements in June 2015 or in the run up to the default date in October 2017, Im satisfied 
he wouldve taken steps to repay the balance without the need for a default. Im satisfied 
the issue came about as a result of an oversight by Mr L in not updating his address rather 
than genuine financial difficulties or a refusal to pay. Based on the information Ive seen so 
far, I intend to uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Nationwide to remove the default from his 
credit file.
I need to decide how to fairly settle Mr Ls case and what level of compensation Nationwide 
should pay. Mr L has told us he lost out financially due to being unable to restructure a 
mortgage during the stamp duty holiday last year. And Mr L says thats cost him over
£11,000. But, its important for me to consider both sides of a complaint and remain 
impartial.
I have to take into account that Nationwide also makes a reasonable point when it says the 
situation could have been avoided if Mr L had updated his address when he moved, in line
with the account terms and conditions. Whilst I agree Nationwide shouldve done more in the
years that followed, I cant say the issues raised were caused solely by Nationwides 
actions. And for me to award compensation in terms of stamp duty, Id have to see 
evidence of the costs Mr L incurred and that it was solely Nationwides actions that meant 
the planned refinance didnt proceed. As matters stand, I havent been persuaded to award 
compensation for the stamp duty savings Mr L says hes missed out on.That being said, its clear the default and issues raised have caused Mr L a reasonable 
level of distress and inconvenience. So in addition to amending his credit file, I also intend 
to tell Nationwide to pay Mr L £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused. In my view, 
that figure fairly reflects the and is a reasonable way to resolve his complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wished to make before I 
reached my final decision. Nationwide didnt give any new information to consider. 
Mr L responded and sent in confirmation from a mortgage provider that his credit score 
impacted an application hed made. Mr L has explained that the issue with the default on 
his credit file meant he wasnt able to restructure a mortgage to take advantage of a stamp 
duty holiday. Mr L also pointed out interest rates have changed since which will lead to 
further costs going forward. Mr L also provided a detailed explanation of his intentions in 
2021 and hope to relocate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr L for the level of detail hes given in his response. The email Mr L has 
sent from his mortgage lender says the application was declined due to adverse credit that 
was likely defaults and arrears. I accept the default most likely played a key role in the Mr Ls 
mortgage lenders decision. 
Whilst that may be the case, in my provisional decision I said I had to take Nationwides 
comments into account as well. And Nationwide has correctly pointed out that Mr L failed to 
update his address for this account and also failed to stop regular payments being debited 
over a sustained period. Nationwide correctly highlights that if Mr L had amended his 
address, in line with the account terms and conditions, or cancelled his direct debits, the 
default would most likely not have come about. 
I still think thats a reasonable point and whilst I agree Nationwide did make mistakes, I 
havent been persuaded its solely responsible for the way Mr Ls account was closed. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr L as I understand the sums involved are substantial, but I 
havent been persuaded it would be fair to tell Nationwide to cover additional costs in line the 
stamp duty saving or future interest rates. I still think the fairest way to resolve Mr Ls 
complaint is for Nationwide to pay him £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
him £350. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman