DRN-2850372
Complaint
Mr D has complained about his Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) overdraft, Amongst other things, 
hes said that Lloyds unfairly continued applying charges to his overdraft when he was in 
financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought Lloyds should have realised 
that Mr Ds overdraft had become unsustainable for him by February 2014 and so it needed 
to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to the overdraft from this point. 
Lloyds didnt agree with our adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Mr Ds overdraft in 
February 2014. 
By this point, Lloyds would have seen that Mr D had been hardcore borrowing for a number 
of months. In other words, Mr Ds account remained persistently overdrawn for lengthy 
periods without returning to credit. Lloyds has referred to Mr Ds salary being enough to clear 
the balance within a reasonable period. But its clear that this wasnt happening and Mr D 
was regularly borrowing up to his overdraft limit. Ive also thought about what Lloyds has 
said about some of the transactions on the account. But given who Mr Ds employer appears 
to have been, Im not persuaded by its arguments on this. 
Overall Im satisfied that by February 2014, Lloyds should have stopped providing the 
overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr D with forbearance rather than adding even 
more fees and charges on the overdraft. 
All of this means that Lloyds should have realised that Mr D was struggling to manage his 
account, wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on 
the same terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Mr Ds overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft at a time when 
he was already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Mr D lost out because of what Lloyds 
did wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do put things right for Mr D
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ds overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it 
from February 2014 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr D to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ds credit file, it 
should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking 
corrective action on the overdraft in February 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Ds credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman