DRN-3949617
The complaint
Ms K complains about how QIC Europe Ltd has handled and settled her claim on her home 
insurance following a fire at her property. 
What happened
Ms K had home insurance with QIC. In July 2021 there was a fire at her property and she 
made a claim. The claim was accepted and QIC sent out contractors to assess the damage 
and prepare a scope of works. 
Initially QIC were going to carry out the work using its own contractors. However in March 
2022 Ms K decided she would prefer to instruct her own contractors, due to a breakdown of 
the relationship with QIC.
QIC therefore offered a cash settlement for the amount it would have cost it to carry out the 
work. However Ms K wasnt happy with it as she didnt think it was enough to cover the work 
and was concerned that some items were missing. 
Throughout the claim Ms K has made a number of complaints about the handling and 
settlement. In 2022 she brought a complaint to this service about certain elements of the 
scope of works. An ombudsman issued a final decision on this complaint in October 2022. 
This dealt with matters up to when QIC issued its final response to the complaint in October 
2021.
Following this Ms K made further complaints. And in 2022 she referred these additional 
points to this service to look into. While QIC hadnt looked into all the points raised, or issued 
a final response letter, it agreed to this service considering the following points Ms K had 
raised as part of this complaint:
The scope of works doesnt cover the full extent of the work required to restore Ms 
Ks property.
The amount offered as a cash settlement isnt enough for Ms K to complete the work.
Ms K had to pay for additional months in alternative accommodation as QIC said it 
would only pay 12 months.
The property required a full electrical re-wiring and this hadnt been included in the 
original scope of works.
The conduct of the loss adjuster appointed to the claim was unacceptable. 
QIC responded to these following the involvement of this service. It said it had taken into 
account the points Ms K had raised about the scope of works and amended it where 
necessary. However it said as it was her choice to receive a cash settlement rather than 
have its contractors carry out the work it would only pay up to the amount it would have cost 
it, as per the policy terms. It said the alternative accommodation should have been enough 
to cover the full time it should have taken to complete the work so thought its offer was fair. 
And it didnt agree its loss adjustor had provided a poor service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He 
concluded:
That Ms Ks own surveyor had concluded that following the initial clean, all the 
ceilings were still showing smoke damage so needed to be replaced and he thought 
this was persuasive. So recommended QIC include the replacement of all the 
ceilings in its scope of works. 
There was evidence to suggest there was still damage to the windows after the clean 
but it wasnt conclusive, so he thought QIC should arrange an independent 
inspection of these to conclude whether it should cover the cost of the replacement of 
all of them. 
The work had gone on for longer than planned, through no fault of Ms K and that 
meant she had to stay in alternative accommodation for longer. So QIC should cover 
the cost of the additional months she spent in alternative accommodation.
He didnt think QIC had acted unfairly in offering a cash settlement based on the 
amount the work would cost it to get done, as it had been Ms Ks choice not to use its 
contractors. 
He also didnt agree that QICs loss adjustor had provided a poor service.
However he said the delays to the claim had caused Ms K some severe distress and 
inconvenience and thought QIC should pay £750 compensation to apologise for that. 
Ms K accepted our investigators outcome. However QIC didnt. It agreed to inspect the 
windows but didnt agree any further ceilings needed to be replaced. It also thought it had 
offered sufficient payment for alternative accommodation to cover a reasonable time for the 
work to complete and didnt agree compensation was warranted. It asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Windows and ceilings 
The issue of how the windows and ceilings should be repaired was addressed in the 
previous decision issued by another ombudsman at this service in October 2022. However 
this looked at the claim decisions up until October 2021. At this stage QIC had proposed 
attempting a clean of both the ceilings and the windows. Since this date the clean has been 
carried out and Ms K has instructed her own report about the condition of the property. So 
while I am unable to consider anything that has already been looked at by this service, I can 
consider what has happened since the last complaint we considered  after October 2021.
Since then a full clean has been attempted. And as part of the scope of works most of the 
ceilings and some of the windows have been included for replacement. However Ms K says 
that the clean has been unsuccessful and due to this all ceilings and windows needed to be 
replaced. Shes provided a report from an expert who inspected both the ceilings and windows in July 
2022. The surveyor provided the following comments about the ceilings:
Apart from fire damage all ceilings were affected by smoke damage. I understand that the 
cleaning company engaged by insurers immediately after the fire carried out a cleaning 
exercise throughout the dwelling but at the time of my visit in order to prepare the schedule 
of work ceilings were still stained. It was not considered that further cleaning and the 
application of a sealer /stain block would adequately obliterate smoke staining from 
bleeding through a redecorated surface.
QIC has said that the remaining smoke damage can be painted over without the need to 
replace the ceilings. However Im more persuaded by the conclusions from Ms Ks expert. 
The report is from a chartered surveyor who has inspected the property some time after the 
clean in order to assess what work still needs to be done. By this time, I think it would be 
clear whether the clean had been effective and he explains why he doesnt think painting the 
ceilings alone would be successful. I therefore agree that QIC should include the 
replacement of all ceilings in its scope of works, as outlined in Ms Ks surveyors report.
Regarding the windows, Ms Ks expert has commented as follows:
The supplier advised the property owner (Ms. K) that fire / smoke damage would render the 
warranty provided invalid. Hence the inclusion in the Schedule for the replacement of all 
windows.
I dont find this as persuasive, as I wouldnt expect QIC to replace the windows just because 
the warranty may have been impacted, but only if the damage was such that it couldnt be 
repaired. Ms K has provided some images of windows that clearly have bad smoke damage 
remaining. However as these have now all been removed, its hard to tell which windows 
these relate to. And QIC has provided images of the windows it didnt include replacement of 
in the scope of works and there is no visible smoke damage. 
QIC has now agreed to appoint an independent expert to attend and inspect the windows. I 
agree this is a fair way forward. Should the expert find that the windows required 
replacement due to the claim related damage then QIC should add any additional 
replacements to the scope of works and increase the cash settlement accordingly.  
Electrical re-wire
In the scope of works produced by QIC, it included some work to the electrics but not a full 
re-wire. However since Ms K has had an electrician attend the property and shes provided a 
report that shows they concluded a full rewire was required and carried out. As the scope of 
works wasnt based on an assessment by an electrician I am more persuaded by Ms Ks 
report. And therefore agree that a full rewire should be included in the scope of works and 
the cash settlement should be adjusted accordingly. 
Cash settlement amount
QIC has said that it was able to appoint contractors to carry out the required work, but Ms K 
opted to accept a cash settlement instead. Ms Ks policy states:
When settling your claim, if we decide that we can offer rebuilding work, repairs or 
replacements, we will ask you to choose one of the following options.
a. We will choose a contractor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to carry out the 
rebuilding work, repairs or replacements.b. We will pay you a cash settlement for the same amount it would have cost us to use our 
preferred contractor.
As QIC offered to appoint a contractor but Ms K chose to cash settle instead, I think QIC 
acted fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions by offering a cash settlement 
based on the amount it would cost it to pay its contractor to carry out the work. So I dont 
think the cost of the work included in the scope is unfair. 
Alternative accommodation
QIC paid Ms K up to the policy limit of 12 months for alternative accommodation while her 
property was uninhabitable. However I can see that shes had to stay out of her home longer 
than the time this covered her for. 
QIC has said that the work should have been completed in the time it has already paid. 
However the cash settlement wasnt agreed until the end of March 2022 and Ms K said she 
wasnt able to find builders who could start work until May 2022. This isnt unreasonable 
considering the high demand for builders around that time. 
Further, the amount of work required to rectify her property was significant. And required the 
work of a few different specialists. Shes said the work wasnt completed until much later in 
the year and this meant she had to stay in alternative accommodation until October 2022, 
whereas QIC only paid for it up until the end of July. Shes also said that after this time, she 
had to stay with a friend before she could move back into the property as she could no 
longer afford to pay for the accommodation without reimbursement. 
Considering the amount of work required I dont think this is an unreasonable time scale for 
the work to complete. And as the cash settlement wasnt confirmed until nine months into the 
claim, I dont think it fair that QIC only offered Ms K alternative accommodation for 12 
months. I therefore agree with our investigator that it should pay for the full time Ms K was in 
alternative accommodation. 
Delays and service
Ive also considered how the claim has been handled by QIC. While the claim was 
progressed promptly to begin with, once the claim was accepted it took a long time for it to 
confirm its final cash settlement. In part this was because Ms K queried a number of items in 
the scope of works. But as some of these have subsequently been amended either before 
the complaint came to this service or as a result of this complaint, I think QIC has caused 
unnecessary delays.
Further, while I agree its loss adjuster has dealt with most of Ms Ks requests, there have 
been a number of times where she has had to chase responses and send multiple emails in 
order for the claim to progress. 
Ms K has explained how distressing this claim has been for her. Shes been displaced from 
her home for some time and had to wait nearly a year before work even begun to restore the 
property. Shes also explained that shes had to use her own savings to fund certain parts of 
the work as well as the additional alternative accommodation, as QIC wouldnt reimburse 
these in the first instance. This has led to Ms K having to move into a friends house and 
sleep on their sofa until work was completed. This would have been very distressing for Ms 
K, as she was unsure whether she would have the funds to have the work completed and 
had no guarantee what she had already spent would be reimbursed.
For these reasons I think QIC has caused some additional distress and inconvenience on top of that Ms K has experienced from the claim. I therefore agree that it should pay £750 
compensation to make up for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms Ks complaint. I direct QIC Europe Ltd to:
Add the replacement of all ceilings to the scope of works and amend the cash 
settlement accordingly.
Appoint an independent expert to inspect the windows and add any additional 
windows that are fire damage beyond repair to the scope of works and amend the 
cash settlement accordingly. 
Include a full electrical re-wire in the scope of works and amend the cash settlement 
accordingly. 
Pay for the additional months Ms K was in alternative accommodation above what it 
has already paid, on receipt of invoices for the amounts. 
Pay Ms K £750 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman