DRN-2151046
The complaint
Mr P complains about an error Vitality Health Limited made which left him without access to 
his account. Hes complained about the issues hes experienced as a consequence.
What happened
Mr P has an Individual Savings Account (ISA) and pension with Vitality. As part of his 
account, Mr P is entitled to member benefits which include free coffees, cinema tickets and 
an ability to purchase a smart watch by logging activity points.
Mr P took advantage of the member benefits regularly and decided to obtain the smart 
watch. He paid an upfront fee with the rest of the watch being paid for on finance. However, 
if Mr P logged enough activity points on his Vitality account, Vitality would make those 
payments for the smart watch instead of him. Mr P regularly logged enough activity points 
and didnt have to make any payments himself for the watch.
In April 2019, when Mr P opened a new product with Vitality there was a technical issue. 
Vitality say that his accounts hadnt merged properly  this prevented Mr P from having 
access to his account areas where hed usually log his activity points. Because of this error, 
Mr Ps direct debit for the watch was taken. However, it appears because Vitality had always 
paid for the watch, Mr Ps direct debit had become dormant. This then led to missed 
payments being recorded on Mr Ps credit file.
Mr P has told us he was in the process of purchasing a house, and his mortgage was 
refused because of these late payments. This meant he lost the house. Mr P repaid the 
amount outstanding for his watch. And he complained to Vitality. It upheld his complaint and 
spoke to the finance provider. The finance provider agreed to remove the credit file markers. 
Vitality also reimbursed Mr P for the coffees and cinema tickets he couldve received during 
the two months that there was an error. But it didnt feel it was responsible for the issues with 
his mortgage.
Provisional decision findings
I issued my provisional decision upholding this complaint on 20 August 2020. I first explained 
that it was fair for Vitality to cover the cost of the smart watch that Mr P had, as I thought it 
was likely he wouldnt have had to make any payments if it wasnt for Vitalitys system error. 
Vitality said there was £100 outstanding on the smart watch and it had already paid Mr P 
£12.50 so the remainder was £87.50. I also agreed it was fair for it to cover the cinema 
tickets and missed coffees. From the evidence I had this all came to £115 including the 
smart watch payment.
I then explained that I didnt think Vitality should cover the fees Mr P had paid in trying to 
purchase his house. This was because a lot of things may have gone wrong and its no 
certainty that the purchase of the house wouldve gone ahead. But I did say that I thought 
Vitalitys error was directly linked to his issue with his mortgage being declined. I explained 
that Mr Ps broker had provided a letter to say there were missed payments on his credit file, 
which was the reason his mortgage application was declined. These missed payments were 
due to his direct debit being dormant for his smart watch. However, the only reason a direct 
debit needed to be collected was because Vitality had a system error that meant Mr P 
couldnt log his points. So, this meant his smart watch payments werent covered by Vitality 
as usual. So, I said Vitality should pay £500 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset Mr 
P experienced. Particularly after hed explained the situation to Vitality and how it had 
affected him. 
Mr P submitted evidence to show he paid £116.50 to pay off the remainder of his smart 
watch, rather than there only being £100 left to pay. He accepted the provisional decision 
provided Vitality make up the additional £16.50.
Vitality disagreed with the provisional decision. It feels that covering the cost of the smart 
watch and the missed coffees and cinema tickets is sufficient. Vitality said compensation of 
£500 was excessive and believed there wasnt enough evidence to suggest that Mr Ps 
mortgage was declined because of its mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as in my provisional decision. Vitality 
should cover the cost of the smart watch, the missed cinema tickets and coffees, and it 
should pay Mr P £500 compensation.
Vitality hasnt provided any further comments in relation to the additional £16.50 that Mr P 
has shown us he paid for his smart watch. This brings the amount of compensation for the 
smart watch and his missed benefits to £131.50. Given Vitality has said that it would cover 
the cost of the smart watch and the missed benefits, I still think it should pay this amount to 
Mr P.
I now turn to the trouble and upset award. When Mr P spoke to Vitality about his complaint 
he explained that he worked in financial services and having an adverse credit marker 
against him could hurt his career. He also explained that hed had a mortgage application 
declined based on this marker. He said that he had lost sleep and, having listened to this call 
recording, its clear Mr P was distressed by the situation. When looking at the chain of 
events, Mr P most likely wouldnt have had these late payment markers if it wasnt for 
Vitalitys error. It was clear that every month Mr P was able to log more than enough activity 
points to pay for his smart watch. Theres nothing to suggest he suddenly became less 
active. So, had he been able to log his points, there wouldnt have been a need for his direct 
debit to be taken.
Its not Mr Ps fault that his direct debit was dormant. Hes shown us evidence from his bank 
to show there was no marker to suggest this. And I explained in my provisional decision that 
there may have been issues from the finance provider as well which led to this. But I dont 
think there wouldve been any need for the direct debit to have been collected if it wasnt for 
Vitalitys error. And Mr P has provided a letter from his estate agents (where his broker 
works) which says the mortgage was declined due to the missed payments being on his 
credit file. So, I do think theres a direct link between Mr Ps mortgage being declined and 
Vitalitys error. Vitality was able to get the finance company to remove the markers on Mr 
Ps credit file, but by this point Mr P had already had his mortgage declined. It appears that 
the house was subsequently lost as the vendors wished to move quickly and accepted a 
different offer. I dont think this was Vitalitys fault. But I do think that its error has led to Mr P 
experiencing substantial trouble and upset.I understand that Vitality feels its error has only led to some annoyance in missed coffees 
and cinema tickets. But I have to reach my decision based on the balance of probabilities. 
And I think, on balance, that had Vitality not made an error, Mr P wouldnt have any missed 
payments on his credit file. And as the evidence indicates missed payments on his credit file 
were the cause of his mortgage application being declined, its likely that wouldnt have 
happened either. Also given the industry Mr P works in, I can see why this wouldve caused 
him some serious distress. So, in this particular case, I think compensation of £500 is fair 
and reasonable.
Putting things right
Vitality Health Limited must to do the following:
- Pay Mr P a total of £131.50 for the missed benefits and smart watch repayment 
based on the information we have been supplied.
- Pay Mr P £500 compensation for the trouble and upset this error has caused him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Vitality Health Limited must pay Mr P the amount set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman