DRN-3454662
The complaint
Mr C complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA hasnt settled a claim under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C held an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which covered him between 
21 October 2019 and 20 October 2020. The insurer was Inter Partner.
Mr C booked a trip abroad in late August 2020 to take place between 1 and 5 September 
2020. He started his trip as planned, but while abroad, there was an announcement of 
changes to the rules in the area he lived in  there would be a requirement to self-isolate for 
14 days upon return from 5 September 2020 onwards, due to Covid-19.
Mr C says he wouldnt have been able to self-isolate upon return, so he had to cut short his 
trip  this is called curtailment under his policy terms. Mr C made a claim to Inter Partner for 
the costs he incurred in doing so.
Inter Partner declined the claim. It said that the reason for Mr Cs claim wasnt an insured 
event under his policy. It also said that the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy 
excluded cover for circumstances known to you before you purchased this insurance or at 
the time of booking any trip or one-way trip which could reasonably have been expected to 
lead to cancellation or curtailment of the trip or one-way trip.
Inter Partner also explained that it had sent an email to policyholders explaining that the 
World Health Organisation (WHO) had declared Covid-19 a pandemic on 11 March 2020. It 
said that any trip booked on or after 17 March 2020 wouldnt be covered if the policyholder 
had to cancel or cut short their trip for any reason related to Covid-19. This was because 
Inter Partner considered Covid-19 to be a known event after this.
Inter Partner apologised for incorrect information in its original letter declining the claim and 
offered Mr C £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience this caused. But it 
confirmed that the decision to decline the claim was correct.
Mr C wasnt happy with Inter Partners response. He says he missed the email sent in 
March 2020, but he also didnt think it was right for Inter Partner to change the terms of his 
policy. Mr C also said that when he spoke with Inter Partner before cutting short his trip, the 
March 2020 email wasnt mentioned.
Fundamentally, Mr C says Covid-19 was unknown when he bought his policy, and he bought 
the new return flights when he did to keep the costs down.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she said that Mr Cs 
circumstances werent a specific, listed insured event under the curtailment section of the 
policy. She also noted that there was no change to the terms of Mr Cs policy  rather, the 
email in March 2020 clarified what cover was, and wasnt, available due to Covid-19.
Our investigator also didnt think Inter Partner had given Mr C incorrect advice over the 
phone. It had said there was no cover in Mr Cs situation  but if the situation changed, Mr C 
could call back to check again.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint.
No insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of 
risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. So, Ive looked through 
the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy.
Mr C curtailed his trip due to the requirement to self-isolate for 14 days upon return due to 
Covid-19, which was announced after Mr C had already started the trip. This situation isnt 
something thats covered under the curtailment section of Mr Cs policy  our investigator 
set out the detail of these terms, and I agree these are the ones relevant to Mr Cs claim. So, 
the reason for the claim isnt a specific, listed insured event under the policy.
I also note that this section of the policy excludes cover for circumstances known to you 
before you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip or one-way trip which 
could reasonably have been expected to lead to cancellation or curtailment of the trip or one-
way trip.
Mr C booked his trip in late August 2020. I think at this point Covid-19 was a known event, 
and something that could reasonably have been expected to lead to a claim. So, not only is 
the reason for curtailment of Mr Cs trip not covered as a listed, insured event under the 
policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above would apply to the circumstances of 
Mr Cs claim anyway.
As our investigator explained, Mr Cs policy terms and conditions didnt change in 
March 2020. Inter Partner emailed policyholders in March 2020 to clarify how Covid-19 
impacted the cover available. But the terms and conditions it used to assess the claim were 
the ones that applied when Mr C bought the policy in 2019.
Ive also listened to the conversation Mr C had with Inter Partner before curtailing the trip. 
Mr C asked if he was covered in the circumstances. Inter Partner explained that curtailment 
due to needing to self-isolate upon return wasnt something the policy covered. It also said 
that normally anything due to Covid-19 wouldnt be covered. But if the situation changed, 
Mr C could call back to check cover. So, I dont think Inter Partner gave Mr C incorrect 
advice during the call.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but I dont think Inter Partner has done anything wrong when it 
declined his claim. This is because the claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of 
his policy with Inter Partner and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask Inter Partner to accept his claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman