DRN-3200638
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Premium Choice Ltd (trading as A Choice) mishandled her motor
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs R held a full driving licence from mid-September 2017. When she went onto a price
comparison website on about 11 May 2021, Mrs R had held her licence for about three years
and eight months. She said shed held her licence for four years.
Premium Choice acted as an intermediary between Mrs R and an insurance company that
issued a policy. Premium Choices terms provided for a fee of £50.00 in the event of
cancellation after the cooling-off period.
On about 21 May 2021, Premium Choice received Mrs Rs driving licence information.
On about 15 June 2021, Mrs R changed the vehicle insured on the policy.
With effect from 19 July 2021, Premium Choice or the insurer cancelled the policy.
Unfortunately, on 21 July 2021, Mrs Rs vehicle was involved in an accident with a police
vehicle. She first contacted us the next day.
Mrs R complained to Premium Choice that it hadnt told her it was reviewing her driving
licence information or told her that it was cancelling her policy.
By a final response dated 28 July, Premium Choice apologised for its underwriting team not
reviewing the licence information sooner and it said it would waive its £50.00 cancellation
fee. It said it had sent a seven-day notice of cancellation by email and by post. Mrs R asked
us to investigate her complaint.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
Premium Choice wouldnt have offered this policy if Mrs R had said shed had her licence for
three years  so Premium Choice acted fairly by cancelling the policy. She thought that the
£50.00 Premium Choice offered for its delay in reviewing the driving licence information was
reasonable.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs R  
and to Premium Choice on 9 November 2021. I summarise my findings:
From what Premium Choice had said, the insurer had given it delegated authority to 
make some underwriting decisions.
Premium Choice made the decision that it couldnt accept a driving licence less than 
four years old. But in my view, it made that decision for and on behalf of the insurer. 
So I didnt consider that Premium Choice had the responsibility for the decision to 
make the cancellation.
Mrs R had made a qualifying misrepresentation under Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations ) Act 2012 (CIDRA). So I concluded that, in line 
with the insurers policy terms, there were serious grounds for cancellation.
I was sorry to hear that Mrs R suffered a back injury in the accident. But her policy 
wouldnt have provided compensation for that  or cover to pursue an injury claim 
against the third party. Notwithstanding the cancellation of her policy, she still had all 
her rights to pursue such a claim.
Overall, I was minded that Premium Choice didnt treat Mrs R unfairly.
As my reasoning contained  several points (for example about delegated authority, 
CIDRA and personal injury) that werent in the investigators opinion and Mrs R 
hadnt had an opportunity to respond to, my decision was provisional.
Subject to any further information from Mrs R or from Premium Choice, my provisional 
decision was that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Premium Choice Ltd 
to do any more in response to this complaint.
Neither Mrs R nor Premium Choice has added anything in response to the provisional 
decision. So I see no reason to change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The comparison website asked Mrs R a question as follows:
how long have you held this licence?
A dropdown box suggested alternative answers as follows:
less than a year, 1,2 3, 4 etc.
Mrs R selected an answer of 4 years.
Based on what shed said, the website referred Mrs R to Premium Choice. Its terms of
business included the following:
If we are required to cancel your policy, we will provide you with 7 days-notice of that
intention.
This will either be by telephone, sent by email and/or post to your last known email
and/or postal address that we have on file.
So cancellation by telephone was an option. But I would expect a seven-day notice to be in
writing.
Generally, I would expect cancellation to be required by the insurance company rather than
by the intermediary. And Ive seen the insurance companys policy terms included the
following:We can cancel this policy at any time if there are serious grounds to do so, including
but not limited to the following examples:

 you have failed to take reasonable care in providing information in relation to this
insurance; or

 where we have grounds to suspect fraud or misrepresentation
We will do this by giving you 7 days notice in writing to your last address notified to
us. Your last notified address may include an email address nominated by you to
accept correspondence.
The policy contained some benefits for Mrs R in the event of her suffering personal injury 
but the benefits only arose on death, loss of sight or loss of hands or feet. I havent seen any
evidence that the policy included cover to pursue a personal injury action against a negligent
third party.
In its welcome letter, Premium Choice asked Mrs R for her driving licence summary. On 21
May 2021, Mrs R rang Premium Choice and sent the driving licence information.
From what Premium Choice has said, the insurer had given it delegated authority to make
some underwriting decisions. Premium Choice didnt tell Mrs R that it had asked its own
underwriting team if it could continue with the policy. It still didnt tell her even when she
changed her vehicle in June. But as it was still considering what to do about the incorrect
information, I dont consider that Premium Choice had to tell Mrs R until it had made a
decision.
Unfortunately, it took the underwriting team until 9 July 2021 to respond. And  as it had
delegated authority - I hold Premium Choice responsible for the delay. But  from her lack of
response - I dont accept that Mrs R wouldve responded differently if there had been no
such delay.
Premium Choice made the decision that it couldnt accept a driving licence less than four
years old. But in my view, it made that decision for and on behalf of the insurer. So I dont
consider that Premium Choice had the responsibility for the decision to make the
cancellation.
In any event, Mrs R had made a careless misrepresentation about her driving licence.
Without that misrepresentation the insurer wouldnt have offered her cover on the same
policy terms or at the same premium  so she had made a qualifying misrepresentation
under Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations ) Act 2012 (CIDRA). So I
conclude that, in line with the insurers policy terms, there were serious grounds for
cancellation.
On 10 July 2021, Premium Choice wrote a seven-day notice of cancellation on behalf of the
insurer. Im satisfied that Premium Choice sent the notice to Mrs Rs correct email address at
10.52 that day. It also posted the notice to Mrs Rs correct postal address. Notwithstanding
that Mrs R says she didnt receive the notice by email or post, Im satisfied that Premium
Choice had done enough by sending it to her.
The seven-day notice expired on 17 July. I dont find that Premium Choice treated Mrs R
unfairly by treating her policy as cancelled with effect from 19 July. Ive seen evidence that 
as I would expect - Premium Choice sent Mrs R a letter confirming cancellation on 19 July
2021. As with the cancellation notice, notwithstanding that Mrs R says she didnt receive the
letter, Im satisfied that Premium Choice had done enough by sending it to her.The letter mentioned a refund of £295.12. But, after it waived the £50.00 cancellation fee,
Premium Choice refunded the sum of £345.12.
From the call recordings, Im satisfied that Premium Choice consistently said that the reason
for the cancellation was the incorrect driving licence information.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs R suffered a back injury in the accident. But her policy wouldnt
have provided compensation for that  or cover to pursue an injury claim against the third
party. Notwithstanding the cancellation of her policy, she still had all her rights to pursue
such a claim.
Overall, I conclude that Premium Choice didnt treat Mrs R unfairly. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct it  in addition to waiving the £50.00 cancellation fee  to do any more in 
response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Premium Choice Ltd to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman