DRN-4136474
The complaint
Mr D complains that Ford Retail Limited (trading as TrustFord) (TrusfFord) mis-sold him a 
number of additional warranties when he bought a car from it.
What happened
Mr D bought a car from TrustFord in January 2020. TrustFord also sold Mr D a number of 
additional warranties  extended mechanical breakdown cover, key cover, wheel and tyre 
insurance and cosmetic cover.
Mr D says the only extra he discussed with TrustFord at the time was a service plan, which 
he says he didnt go ahead with. So Mr D says TrustFord sold him the warranties without his 
knowledge or agreement. He says he was in TrustFords showroom for nearly six hours and 
felt pressured into signing many documents without fully checking their contents. Mr D also 
says hed never bought extended warranties in the past with other cars.
The investigator who looked at Mr Ds complaint didnt uphold it. He thought TrustFord had 
assessed Mr Ds needs and sent him information so he could make an informed decision 
about whether he wanted the warranties. And he said Mr D could cancel them if he no longer 
wanted or needed them.
Mr D disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. He says he 
never received any documents about the warranties and so couldnt cancel things he didnt 
know about.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
I think TrustFord recommended the warranties to Mr D. That means it had to make sure they 
were right for Mr D. TrustFord also had to give Mr D enough clear information about the 
warranties for him to be able to make an informed decision about whether he wanted them.
Mr D says he didnt know hed bought the warranties, essentially because he was in a sales 
environment where he didnt have the opportunity to look at all the documents he signed. 
TrustFord says during the sales process a demands and needs document was completed for 
Mr D. It says the products it recommended were suitable for him based on his responses to 
the questions in that document. 
Where, as in Mr Ds case, theres a dispute about what happened, I must assess the 
available evidence to decide what, on balance, I think is most likely to have happened.
I can see that, on 11 January 2020, TrustFord completed a draft of a demands and needs 
document for Mr D. This is an eight page document, with lots of information in it. But it does 
clearly show that six extra warranties have been selected for consideration and it shows 
the price and duration of each of them. One of the insurance products this document shows 
has been selected for consideration is an asset protection warranty. In relation to this 
product, the demands and needs document says:
Should you decide to purchase   Asset Protection insurance we will not be able to 
conclude the contract until the 14th January 2020 or on the 12th January 2020 if expressly 
required by you and subject to obtaining your Confirmation.
Also on 11 January 2020, TrustFord gave Mr D an order form for his car, which he signed, 
which itemises five extra warranties, each with a price separately listed. It doesnt include an 
asset protection warranty.
I can also see that, two weeks later, on 24 January 2020, TrustFord completed a final 
demands and needs document for Mr D. This document has a section headed Which 
products did you purchase? which lists six warranties (so it includes asset protection). It 
also still contains the wording Ive quoted about Should you decide to purchase Asset 
Protection . Mr D has signed this document.
Finally, on 25 January 2020, TrustFord and Mr D both signed an invoice for the new car. The 
invoice itemises five extra warranties, each showing the same price as was listed in the 
order form of 11 January. As with the order form, this doesnt include an asset protection 
warranty.
From all of this, I think its likely TrustFord discussed Mr Ds insurance needs with him at the 
time. And, from looking at the documents Ive got, I think its likely Mr D decided to buy five 
out of the six warranties TrustFord recommended. I also think its likely the final demands 
and needs document referred to Mr D having bought all six warranties because TrustFord 
didnt properly amend it to reflect Mr Ds decision not to buy the asset protection warranty.
There was a gap of about two weeks from when Mr D ordered the car to when he took 
delivery of it. So I think Mr D had time to look at the order form hed signed on 11 January 
and, if he wasnt happy about the extra warranties it included  or didnt know what they 
were  Id have expected him to query this with TrustFord. Ive seen no evidence Mr D did 
this.
I dont doubt Mr D has given us his honest recollections of what happened back in 2020. But 
Im also conscious memories can fade. Having looked at the documentary evidence I have, 
Mr Ds recollections on their own arent persuasive enough to make me think its likely 
TrustFord put undue pressure on him to buy the additional warranties or added them to his 
order without his knowledge or agreement.
It also looks to me that TrustFord gave Mr D clear enough information about the cover the 
warranties gave and about their cost and duration for him to be able to make an informed 
decision about whether he wanted them. And Ive seen nothing to suggest they were 
unsuitable for him.
Ive considered all of Mr Ds comments on this complaint but they dont change my 
conclusion that, on balance, TrustFord didnt mis-sell the warranties.
I know Mr D is also unhappy that TrustFord also sold him a paint protection product. But this 
isnt an insurance product and so, under the rules of our service, I cant look at Mr Ds 
complaint about its sale.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman