DRN-2633154
The complaint
Mr C complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) provided poor service 
when dealing with his claim under his Mobile Phone insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C has a bank account with added mobile phone insurance provided by Assurant. 
On 17 February 2020 he registered a claim with Assurant for damage to his phone. The 
claim was accepted, and Assurant said they advised the policy excess was now payable. 
They said that as hed got another ongoing claim, he told them hed call them back to pay 
the excess on the new claim once the first claim had been completed. Assurant said that Mr 
C denied this.
Assurant said that Mr C didnt call back to pay the excess until 16 September 2020. He 
asked for a claim update at this point. He felt Assurant had ignored his second claim. He 
raised a complaint. 
Due to the situation with the previous claim, on 8 October 2020 Assurant agreed to bypass 
the normal claims process for the second claim and arrange a doorstep exchange. But the 
incorrect handset details had been registered on the policy. So the wrong model of phone 
was sent to Mr C.
Unhappy, Mr C complained. A further two replacement phone orders were also incorrect. 
The correct device was finally sent to Mr C on 14 October 2020. Mr C complained again. He 
listed ten different complaint points.
In their final response letter, Assurant upheld some of the complaint points but not others. 
They agreed thered been service issues, especially as the incorrect device was sent three 
times. In acknowledgement of the distress and inconvenience caused, Assurant offered 
£100. Mr C didnt accept this. 
He brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator recommended his complaint be 
upheld. He felt that Mr C had been inconvenienced by the poor service and that £250 
compensation should be awarded.
Assurant didnt agree. Although they accepted that their offer of £100 wasnt enough under 
the circumstances, they felt that £250 was too much.
They agreed that the main issue was that Mr C had received the wrong model of phone on 
two occasions. And that he received the correct model but the wrong colour on the third 
occasion. But they noted that the policy terms state that the same colour device cant be 
guaranteed. And they said that the doorstep exchanges theyd arranged couldve been 
carried out at any address of Mr Cs choosing. So they didnt agree that hed needed to take 
time off work in order to receive his replacement phone. 
Assurant increased their offer for distress and inconvenience to £175. Our investigator 
issued an updated view where he agreed with Assurant that their revised offer was fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances.
Mr C didnt agree. So his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at what both sides have provided, Im going to uphold this complaint. But 
unfortunately Mr C may still be disappointed. 
In this case, I can see that there were a series of service issues. Mr C didnt receive the 
correct model of phone on the first or second occasion. He didnt get the colour he wanted 
on the third occasion. 
It mustve been frustrating to get the wrong phone on two occasions. Assurant 
acknowledged this when they upheld this part of Mr Cs complaint.
And I can understand why Mr C wasnt happy as he felt hed had to take time off work each 
time to receive his new phone. He also told us that the service hed received had caused him 
severe stress and anxiety. Im very sorry Mr C has had a difficult time.
But Assurant have told us that a doorstep exchange can be carried out at any address of the 
customers choosing. They said that customers are asked when this is arranged the address 
they would like this to take place. So they said that Mr C didnt need to take time off work for 
the three exchanges. 
Assurant also said that for the last exchange, Mr C asked if he could collect his replacement 
phone from a parcel depot. Given the way the doorstep exchange can be used - and noting 
that Mr C did use it that way himself - Im not able to hold Assurant responsible for the time 
off work Mr C felt he had to take in order to receive his replacement phones. 
I can see that the policy doesnt guarantee that the same colour device will be provided. So 
Im not persuaded that Assurant did anything wrong when they sent the third replacement in 
the wrong colour. But I note that when Mr C complained about the colour of the third 
replacement Assurant were able to provide him with a replacement in the colour of his 
choice. I think this was a reasonable thing for Assurant to do for Mr C under the 
circumstances.
Assurant have also noted that it took a total of six days to get the correct model and colour 
phone to Mr C after hed told them that hed received the first incorrect model. 
In summary, Assurant have acknowledged there were a number of service issues. Theyve 
eventually provided Mr C with the correct model and colour of replacement phone. But the 
process to get to that point has been frustrating and difficult for Mr C. So I consider that the 
increased offer of £175 for distress and inconvenience fairly reflects the problems they 
caused.
  
Putting things right
Assurant General Insurance Limited should pay Mr C £175 for distress and inconvenience. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint. 
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Mr C £175 for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman