DRN-3569070
The complaint
Mr M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined his claim on his motor 
insurance policy following the theft of his car. Mr M is represented in this matter by his 
solicitor.
What happened
Mr Ms car was stolen and later recovered after it had been used in criminal activity. 
Advantage said the car was a total loss, but it declined Mr Ms claim. Advantage said the car 
could only have been stolen using a key or if the car had been left unlocked. Advantage said 
both of these circumstances were excluded from cover by the policys terms and conditions. 
And so it declined the claim. Mr M was unhappy with this and that his personal data may 
have been breached. He wanted the claim and his expenses paid and compensation. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Advantage had reasonably investigated the claim and established how the car may have 
been stolen. He thought it had shown that the car couldnt have been entered using key 
relay attack. Mr M had provided his own engineers report. But the investigator thought 
Advantages independent engineers report was more persuasive. And so he thought 
Advantage had fairly and reasonably declined the claim in keeping with the policy exclusion. 
He didnt think Advantage had acted outside its regulatory obligations in regard to Mr Ms 
personal data. 
Mr Ms representative replied that he thought the car may have been accessed by keyless 
theft. He said Mr M would provide a further expert report to substantiate this. Advantage 
declined to pay for such a report as it said it had already provided an independent engineers 
report. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that the loss of his car has had a significant impact for Mr M as he still has 
to pay the finance for it. Mr M said he would provide a further independent engineers report 
for us to consider. But he hasnt done so within the past six months. So I think I can fairly 
and reasonably consider his complaint based on the evidence available. 
Mr M said his car was stolen without the use of keys. But Advantages independent engineer 
said the only way to steal the car was with a programmable key, so the vehicle couldnt have 
been stolen in the way Mr M had described. There was no damage to the immobiliser or 
wiring, or evidence of forced entry, apart from to the cars boot. This wouldnt have allowed 
access to the car as it was a saloon. I can see that the cars spare key couldnt be located. 
The engineers report said there were only three ways that Mr Ms car could have been 
stolen:
1. Forced entry
2. Spare key was utilised
3. The vehicle was left unlocked
The first option was dismissed. So the other two methods were the only possible ways in 
which the car could be stolen. And both of these wouldnt be covered under Mr Ms 
insurance policy.
Mr M commissioned his own independent engineers report. This said that the car could 
have been stolen using a device that would allow keyless entry. 
Advantages in house engineer said the car wasnt equipped with keyless entry, so it couldnt 
have been accessed by this means. He said the car had keyless start ignition so it could 
have been started with a programmed key. But there was no record on the cars ECU of 
another key being used or programmed. He said:
If the car was left unlocked starting the vehicle would be possible via the key relay 
attack... However, if the key was utilised to gain access, then it can only be the spare key 
was used or the main key. This would  not only allow access but starting.
Advantage reiterated that the car could only have been stolen using the spare key or if the 
car had been left unlocked. And the engineer also said that if the car had been stolen using 
keyless attack, then the car wouldnt restart without the programmed key present. 
I can see that Mr Ms policy contains an exclusion on page 25 of the policy booklet, under 
Theft claims:
Youre not covered for any claim for the theft of your car unless:
 Your Car was fully locked and secured and any Keys that unlock it were removed
I think this is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or 
unreasonable. And I can see that it is clearly set out in the policy wording. And so I think it 
was reasonable for Advantage to rely on it to decline a claim.
I think that its for Mr M to show that an insured event has taken place. But Im satisfied that 
Advantage has shown through its independent engineers reports that the theft couldnt have 
taken place as Mr M described without the keys. 
So I think Advantage reasonably investigated Mr Ms claim and considered the evidence 
available before deciding to decline his claim. As Im satisfied that Advantage hasnt done 
anything wrong, I dont require Advantage to pay Mr Ms claim, his expenses or any 
compensation. 
I also agree with the Investigator and I cant see evidence that Advantage acted outside its 
regulatory obligations in regard to Mr Ms personal data. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman