DRN-3936734
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund him the payments he made after 
he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
Mr M is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mr M throughout this decision.
Mr M says that he received a call from someone saying they were from Metro. He didnt 
know at the time, but the caller was a scammer. The number Mr M was called from matched 
Metros number. Mr M was asked for security details like his name, address, account 
number and sort-code. The scammer told Mr M that all Metro accounts had been 
compromised and customers needed to move their funds to a safe account while the IT 
department fixed the glitch.  Once the issue had been resolved Mr M would receive a new 
card and his funds would be put in a new account.  
Mr M made two payments to the scammer on 5 May 2022 (one for £850 and one for £950). 
He called Metro on 21 May as he hadnt heard anything more and it was during this call that 
Mr M was told hed been the victim of a scam.
Metro considered Mr Ms claim under the Continent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM 
Code) but said one of the exclusions to reimbursement applies in this case. Metro noted that 
Mr M had fallen victim to the same scam three months before and had been provided with 
scam advice. Metro contacted the bank that received Mr Ms funds and was able to recover 
£37.35 which has been returned to Mr M. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
recognised that the scammer had spoofed Metros number but felt that following a previous 
safe account scam a few months before and in light of the scam information that was 
provided, Mr M ought to have taken additional steps before making the payments. She also 
noted that the scammer didnt know personal details about Mr M and that Mr M deposited 
cash into the account he was told was compromised before transferring funds. The 
investigator also didnt think that Metro needed to intervene when the payment requests 
were made given the value of them. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, he said:
- He had no reason to doubt the call was from Metro as he recognised the number that 
he now knows was spoofed. 
- The process was very rushed and didnt allow Mr M time to think at a time when he 
was very concerned that he could lose all his funds. 
- Metro owed Mr M a greater duty of care following a previous similar scam a few 
months before. If Metro had called Mr M about the two large transactions the scam 
would have been uncovered. 
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really sorry to hear that Mr M has lost money in a cruel scam and of the impact of the 
scam on him.
The starting point for my considerations is that, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms of his account, Mr M is liable for transactions hes carried out himself. 
But Metro are signatories to the CRM Code and also have a longstanding obligation to be on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions which might indicate their customer 
is at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr M was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough, in and of itself, for Mr M to receive a refund. Metro is a signatory of the CRM Code 
which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Under the CRM 
Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that: -
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
There are other exceptions that do not apply to this case. 
Did Mr M have a reasonable basis for belief when he made the payments?
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, I think the concerns Metro has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transactions Mr M made, are enough to support its position 
that it may rely on an exclusion to reimbursement set out in the CRM Code. I dont think Mr 
M had a reasonable basis for believing the person he transacted with was legitimate. Ill 
explain why.
I understand the call Mr M received was made from a spoofed telephone number and I 
dont underestimate the impact this must have had in reassuring him that this was a genuine 
call from Metro. But I still need to consider whether, after this initial reassurance, Mr M ought 
reasonably to have had doubts and conducted some checks before transferring funds to a 
new account.
Mr M fell victim to the same scam in February 2022 when he received a call from an 
individual who claimed to be from Metro and was told his account had been hacked. On this 
occasion Mr M received a full refund from Metro. Ive listened to the call when Mr M raised 
this scam claim and am satisfied that Mr M was advised Metro would not call him unless 
hed already raised a claim. The Metro advisor was clear that Metro would never call and ask 
a customer to transfer money, or to give new account details. She went on to say that 
accounts are only opened in store. On a number of occasions during the call Mr M was told 
that if he received a call from someone claiming to be his bank, he should disconnect the call 
and phone Metro directly on a recognised number. 
Mr M asked the Metro advisor to make sure Metro didnt contact him by phone and to record 
that he preferred contact by post. He went on to confirm twice that if anyone called him 
saying they were from Metro he should hang up.
When Metro wrote to Mr M confirming that it would reimburse the amount he lost in the first 
scam it provided further scam advice. The letter said,Fraudsters are always looking for ways to get their hands on your money. Metro Bank will 
never ask you to move money out of your accounts to keep it safe and neither will the 
police. If you find yourself in this situation end the conversation and report it to your bank 
and your local police station. Visit takefive-stopfraud.org.uk  A national campaign which 
provides impartial advice helping prevent fraud.
I consider Metro provided appropriate scam warnings in February 2022 that Mr M 
understood. So, when Mr M received a further call from someone claiming to be from Metro, 
I consider he ought reasonably to have recalled the advice given and taken additional steps 
before transferring any money. The circumstances of the second scam were very similar to 
the first except for the fact that Mr M says Metros number was spoofed the second time. I 
accept that Mr M didnt receive specific advice about number spoofing, but I think the 
message was clear that if Mr M received a call from someone claiming to be from Metro he 
should hang up and call Metro directly as Metro wouldnt call him out of the blue or ask him 
to move money.  
There are other factors that I think ought reasonably to have concerned Mr M. At the time Mr 
M received the call from the scammer the balance of his current account was £32.67. He 
then deposited £1,800 in cash before making a transfer of £850 to the scammer. In error, Mr 
M then transferred £950 to an account in his name before transferring it back and on to the 
scammer. 
I believe Mr M thought his savings account (from which he withdrew the cash) had also been 
compromised, but cant see there was a plausible reason to withdraw funds in cash 
(meaning those funds were safe) before depositing them into a compromised account. I 
consider that being asked to do this ought reasonably to have concerned Mr M and led him 
to follow the advice he was previously given by Metro by terminating the call. 
The scammer also told Mr M that every Metro customer needed to move their funds. If Metro 
really did have an issue that affected so many people, this would be in the media very 
quickly and I consider Mr M would have heard about it. 
Mr M has said Metro owed him a higher duty of care given that hed been scammed before 
and should have contacted him to discuss the payments, which he says were out of 
character. But Im satisfied the payments werent so unusual or out of character that Metro 
needed to intervene. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Whilst banks 
have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, 
they cant reasonably be involved in transactions like the ones Mr B made. 
Recovery
Metros records show it contacted the financial business that received Mr Ms funds in a 
timely fashion so I dont consider there was anything more Metro could have done. By the 
time the scam was reported only £37.35 remained.
Overall
Whilst Im sympathetic to the circumstances Mr M finds himself in, I cant reasonably ask 
Metro to refund his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Jay HadfieldOmbudsman