DRN-4152309
The complaint
Mr O complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGIC) rejected 
a claim on his pet insurance policy and removed the public liability cover for his pet dog.
What happened
Mr Os dog was seen by his vet regarding a wart on his leg. The vet advised removal of the 
wart but deferred this for two months so it could take place at the same time as another 
procedure. 
The wart was removed at the later appointment and Mr O claimed for the treatment costs but 
CGIC rejected the claim. It said the policy doesnt cover cosmetic or elective treatment or 
treatment that is not for an illness, and the removal of the wart fell within this category as 
there was no clinical evidence showing it had been necessary to remove the wart.
On reviewing the vets notes, CGIC said there were several references to Mr Os dog being 
snappy. As a result, it removed the third party liability cover from the policy on the basis the 
policy conditions allowed it to do this where the dog had shown any aggressive behaviour.
Mr O complained. He said the treatment for the wart wasnt elective but CGIC maintained its 
position. It referred to references in the clinical records to the dogs temperament; to it 
having snapped; being stressed; and treatment having to be done under general 
anaesthetic because it was impossible to muzzle or handle.
When Mr O referred his complaint to this service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld, due to the various references in the clinical records. Mr O provided some further 
comments from his vet but the investigator said these didnt persuade her to change her 
view. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules require insurers to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and not to reject claims 
unreasonably. Ive taken this into account when considering how CGIC has applied the 
policy terms,
The policy provides cover for vets fees but, as with most insurance, there are limits on cover 
and exclusions that apply. In particular, theres an exclusion that means there is no cover for
Any claim for cosmetic, elective, or routine Treatment or any Treatment which is preventive 
and not treating an Illness or Accidental Injury, including but not limited to the following
Elective treatment might be said to exclude anything that isnt urgent. I dont think it would 
be fair to apply the term that strictly. But the exclusion as whole aims to exclude anything 
that is cosmetic or routine in nature, or not necessary for treatment of an illness. Thats not 
unusual in pet insurance and I think its reasonable to limit claims in this way.
Warts are typically considered to be a cosmetic issue. Although the vets notes at the time 
say they advised removal of the wart, theres no further explanation in the notes. Theres 
nothing saying, for example, treatment had to be carried out because the wart had become 
infected or was causing any pain or problems with mobility. Although Mr O has more recently 
provided a note from the vet saying the treatment wasnt elective, it doesnt explain why. 
If Mr Os vet provided more explanation of problems the wart was causing and why 
treatment was necessary, Id expect CGIC to consider that. But on the basis of the 
information available, CGICs decision was in line with the policy terms and was reasonable.
The policy also provides cover for third party liability but again, there are exclusions and 
limits to this. The policy terms allow CGIC to withdraw this section of cover in some 
circumstances. And the policy terms say there is no cover where 
We discover that Your dog has previously shown signs of Aggression and You did not 
advise Us;
When Mr O took out the policy he was asked whether his dog had ever shown any 
aggression, aggressive tendencies or behavioural issues towards a person or another 
animal or been difficult to control. He answered No to this. 
I appreciate Mr O has provided testimonials from people who have looked after his dog and 
from a vet, saying the dog is good natured. But there are several references in the clinical 
notes as set out above. Even if limited to situations where his dog was reacting to a situation 
such as an examination or treatment, there are still references to aggression and 
behavioural issues. Its for an insurer to decide what risks it wishes to consider and CGIC 
doesnt provide third party liability cover where there have been signs of aggression or 
behavioural issues. So I think its decision to remove cover was reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman