DRN-2313147
The complaint
Miss D complains about the service she received when she complained to Bank of Scotland 
plc, trading as Lloyds.  She thinks £300 is a fair offer of compensation.
Lloyds thinks £100 is a fair and reasonable offer.
What happened
Miss D complained to Lloyds about two transactions on her account which she says took 
place after she had lost her card.  She said she was in a supermarket and that the security 
guards had identified a third party picking up her wallet which she had dropped.  The matter 
was reported to the police.
Lloyds initially refunded the payments, but following a chargeback request, the funds were 
re-debited from Miss Ds account.
It rejected her complaint and so she came to this service.
In its initial submissions to this service, Lloyds reversed its decision and said it was now 
upholding Miss Ds complaint.  It was prepared to refund the disputed transactions and offer 
£100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator thought this was a fair outcome  but Miss D did not.  She thought £300 
was a fair sum due to the time it had taken Lloyds to come to this conclusion and for the time 
she had spent on the phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the reason why Lloyds initially rejected Miss Ds complaint.  Following a 
chargeback request, it received information from the merchants that Miss D may have 
authorised the transactions.
I think its fair for Lloyds to act upon that information  but in this case it continued its review 
of the complaint and decided, subsequently, that the information was insufficient.  However, I 
cant see that the information it received ever changed  so essentially it overturned its own 
decision.
Of course, it is disappointing for Miss D that she had to correspondence with this service 
before Lloyds changed its mind and, in the meantime, she was also chasing the merchant 
trying to get to the bottom of these payments.
That said, it was some months before Lloyds accepted there was insufficient evidence to 
hold Miss D liable  and it may be that it was only prompted to do so following this services 
involvement.
All in all, it took nine months for Miss D to be given confirmation of what she had claimed all 
along. 
I think a fair sum in this case would be one of £200 in total. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman