DRN-4123888
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (hereafter referred to as 
Vitality) will not consider a claim under his VitalityLife term assurance policy.   
What happened
Mr K has held his PruProtect (now VItalityLife) policy since July 2010. It comprises life cover, 
serious illness (critical illness) benefit including total and permanent disability (TPD) cover, 
and income protection benefit. The policy has a 25-year term and annual indexed premium 
increases. Mr K applied for it through a third party financial adviser in March 2010.   
After obtaining a medical report from Mr Ks GP, Vitality initially declined to provide any 
income protection benefit at all, only offering serious illness cover and life cover  the former 
having a policy exclusion.    
After Mr Ks financial adviser sent in further medical information, Vitality agreed to insure Mr 
K at an additional cost due to a rating for cholesterol levels. It also applied an exclusion for 
serious illness and income protection benefits relating to disease or disorder of the nervous 
system or any associated complications, as well as a restriction on the type of cover it would 
offer for TPD benefit  this was granted on a functional activities basis.   
Vitality amended the terms it could offer because Mr K disclosed on his application that he 
had been diagnosed with a history of ulnar nerve compression and associated neurological 
issues dating back to 1998.  
Mr Ks adviser queried the exclusion with Vitality, and in return it gave a further explanation 
as to how the exclusion could apply. Mr K then went ahead with the policy, and it began on 
19 July 2010.    
In 2018, Mr K complained about the policy exclusion and the loading applied to his policy 
premiums, and he later lodged a complaint with this service. Mr K contended that the 
exclusion should be removed. We did not uphold that complaint or agree that the premiums 
were unfairly loaded from the outset. Accordingly, the policy continued with the exclusion in 
place.  
In 2021, Mr K was diagnosed with a rare type of hereditary peripheral neuropathy. He 
contacted Vitality to enquire about making a claim for benefits under his policy and sent 
medical information to Vitality, relating to his diagnosis.  
In July 2021, Vitality responded to Mr K. It said firstly that no TPD claim could be considered 
because it was not able to confirm permanence of failure of activities of daily living nor 
activities of daily work. Secondly, the illness Mr K has was not a listed condition under his 
policy, so no serious illness claim existed. And thirdly, it noted that the previously discussed 
policy exclusion was in place, and this was relevant to Mr Ks recent diagnosis.  
Mr K appealed to Vitality via email, noting that he believed neurological conditions would at 
least be assessed. 
On 29 July 2021, Vitality explained to Mr K that it took the view that his diagnosis related to 
the policy exclusion, and it could not consider any claim on that basis. It explained that it 
would be prepared to consider any other medical evidence to the contrary, should Mr Ks 
consultant or treating medical professionals believe otherwise.  
After a series of emails being exchanged with Vitality, Mr K complained. 
On 3 September 2021, Vitality rejected the complaint. It said that its chief medical officer 
(CMO) had reviewed the complaint and she believed that the disclosure Mr K made in his 
policy application in 2010 together with the investigations provided on his medical records, 
indicated that Mr K had severe nerve neuropathy, which had been deteriorating. And his 
medical records dating back to 1998 had mentioned genetic conditions. 
The underwriting decision was therefore to exclude any disease or disorder covered within 
the nervous system benefit and or any associated complications. The aim of any exclusion is 
to exclude any future claim based on symptoms that Mr K already had, as this carried a pre-
existing risk. Mr K had now been diagnosed with a condition of the nervous system relating 
to his disclosure in the application, and the exclusion applied meaning no claim for serious 
illness benefit or income protection could be considered.  
Vitality explained that Mr K was not precluded from ever making a claim under the nervous 
system benefit section of his policy, if a condition arose which was unrelated and therefore 
not a risk foreseen at the application stage by its underwriters. This had been confirmed to 
his financial adviser at the time of the application in writing.  
In early 2022, Mr K brought his complaint to this service.  
Mr K later brought a separate complaint against Vitality about a different condition for which 
he became severely unwell and was hospitalised. That complaint was dealt with at this 
service and has since been closed. 
 
The same investigator from this service reviewed this complaint, but he did not think it ought 
to succeed. He said he hadnt seen any clear evidence that Vitality had acted unfairly in the 
circumstances, even where it had placed reliance on the policy exclusion. He did not believe 
Vitality ought to assess a claim for Mr K, since no applicable claims could be pursued.  
Mr K explained that while his condition was hereditary, it did not present until later life  and 
this was the case with many genetic disorders, such as cystic fibrosis. He explained that he 
intended to pursue matters with his treating consultant.   
Mr K then supplied a statement from his financial adviser at the time of the sale of the policy. 
The adviser said the application was still something he could recall, as he had undergone 
recent surgery to free his trapped ulnar nerve himself. He therefore felt it was unfair for 
Vitality to place an overriding exclusion on Mr Ks policy, and it was for that reason that he 
queried it.  
The adviser said how a senior staff member at Vitality confirmed that the exclusion noted 
within the acceptance letter would only apply if it was a further complication of the trapped 
elbow nerve only; all other neurological conditions would be covered under the policy. At that 
time, he had verbally relayed confirmation of the same to Mr K along with a follow-up email. 
The adviser stressed that the conversation he had with Vitality was undertaken in stronger terms than the email  and it was expressly stated that the only exclusion which would ever 
apply was if the trapped elbow nerve deteriorated further.  
Mr K also supplied a further statement from his treating consultant neurologist, Dr S, which 
said that when Mr K had ulnar nerve entrapment surgery prior to 2010 he could not have 
known he had the condition he went on the diagnosed with in 2021. She also explained that 
it was difficult to say if the two were directly related, because ulnar nerve entrapment was 
the second most common compressive neuropathy in the UK.  
Finally, he said he had also seen an email from Vitality to his GP dated 6 July 2010 which 
said it had concluded Mr Ks ulnar condition was confined to the upper limbs. This is in 
complete contrast to his new diagnosis which can affect all of a diagnosed persons limbs. 
Mr K said that he took the view that three independent people had now confirmed that the 
two conditions were unrelated, and he did not know what else could be provided to 
determine that his claim ought to be considered.  
He also explained that he had made a separate claim to Vitality following a serious illness in 
late 2022 requiring hospitalisation. However, it remained the case that Vitality refused to 
assess a claim for his 2021 diagnosis.    
Our investigator shared the additional evidence supplied by Mr K with Vitality. However, it 
said that its CMO had reviewed the information and its view was unchanged. Vitality 
explained that the medical evidence and statement from the adviser did not make a 
difference to its initial underwriting assessment, the exclusion or the application
of that exclusion now at a potential claim stage.  
Our investigator also was not minded to change his view. Though he recognised the 
explanation Dr S included in her letter, he did not think Vitality had acted unfairly by adding 
an exclusion to the policy, or by applying it now. It could not be said with any certainty that 
the symptoms Mr K had before 2010 were not related to his current diagnosis. 
He also did not believe that any valid serious illness claim could be pursued as Mr Ks illness 
wasnt a listed condition, and he did not meet any of the severity criteria for a TPD claim.  
Vitality said it had no further comments to make.  
Mr K asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He said he did not believe 
Vitality had truly considered the evidence from his financial adviser. Further, it had failed to 
comment on the information from the GP at the time. This must indicate Vitality is back-
tracking or it lied and mis-sold him his cover in 2010 on a false basis.  
He also sent a further email for an ombudsmans attention, noting that:
he cannot understand why nobody has contacted his financial adviser regarding what 
was said in 2010;
he understands that the investigator and Vitality have commented on his documented 
history of neurological issues prior to 2010;
but in his view that is akin to a policyholder being unable to claim for a brain 
haemorrhage when they had a history of migraine;
many of the conditions included in his policy have a neurological basis  such as 
multiple sclerosis and brain tumour;
so, he questions where the line is drawn the by Vitality and why;when he took the policy, as far as he was concerned, the only condition he had (and 
rightly disclosed) was a trapped elbow nerve;
Vitality stated that the only exclusion that may ever be applied was to be specifically 
trapped elbow nerve deterioration  so this is where the line must be drawn;
Vitalitys understanding of the condition at the time of taking the policy was that it was 
confined to the upper limbs i.e. trapped elbow nerve;
so the exclusion was to be for any condition which occurred specifically and 
exclusively in the upper limbs;
that is what was relayed to the financial adviser and accordingly to Mr K  and those 
are the terms he accepted.  
The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter has awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. I also send my best wishes to Mr K, given his ongoing health issues. I recognise 
that this process has been frustrating for him, and I do not wish for my decision to cause any 
further upset. However, for the reasons I will summarise below, I am not able to uphold his 
complaint against Vitality, because I believe it has acted fairly in the circumstances.  
I must be very clear about the parameters of this complaint because Mr K has complained to 
this service previously about the policy exclusion. Specifically, he complained that he was 
unhappy as should he have needed to make a claim in relation to this exclusion, he 
wouldnt have been able to. 
So, this decision will not be addressing the fairness of the exclusion, or Vitalitys decision to 
include it the terms of its insurance offer to Mr K. That already forms part of a previous 
complaint to this service  and I do not have the jurisdiction to revisit that. That means many 
of the points Mr K has made to our investigator are not matters I can answer here. 
For example, the email Mr K refers to that was sent by Vitalitys underwriter to his financial 
adviser has already been specifically considered in the context of the fairness of the policy 
exclusion. 
In an adjudication of 13 July 2018, our adjudicator concluded that:
The above shows that it was discussed that any condition that Mr K might later 
present - thats unrelated to the exclusion on his policy - would be covered. But there 
was no mention of the exclusion being removed, so I wouldnt say that this is 
something Vitality need to do. In addition to this, Vitality has shown that the 
application of this exclusion is due to the recurring symptoms of ulnar neuropathy 
that Mr K has shown from 1998 up until 2010. So I think its reasonable that this 
exclusion remains on the policy.
The complaint was thereafter closed and not appealed by either party. I cannot revisit it here; 
our rules permit us to dismiss complaints which have already previously been considered or 
excluded by the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
So, this decision will focus on the refusal of a serious illness (or income protection) claim for 
Mr Ks recent diagnosis of the specific type of peripheral neuropathy he suffers from, 
because of the application of the policy exclusion  not the exclusion itself. If Mr K now believes his policy was mis-sold, that is again a separate matter which he can 
pursue with his financial adviser in the first instance. The policy was not sold by Vitality. 
I do appreciate that Mr K had no idea he would go on to receive his diagnosis in 2021. 
However, whether Vitality has acted fairly or not cannot be based on my sympathy for a 
complainants circumstances. Instead, I must assess the policy wording and how it has been 
applied, since that forms the basis of Mr Ks contract of insurance.  
The exclusion says:
No Serious Illness Cover will be payable under this Plan for any illness or incapacity 
arising directly or indirectly from:
- Any disease or disorder covered within the nervous system benefit or any 
associated complications.
Total & Permanent Disability will be based on Permanent Failure of Functional 
Activity for health reasons
(See Plan Provisions for details).
No Income Protection Cover will be payable under this Plan for any illness or 
incapacity arising directly or indirectly from:
- Any disease or disorder covered within the nervous system benefit or any 
associated complications.
Mr Ks type of peripheral neuropathy is not a listed condition within the PruProtect Plan 
Provisions. So, whether the exclusion applies or not is immaterial; the condition is not one of 
the specified conditions covered by Mr Ks insurance policy for Serious Illness Cover. 
It simply isnt possible for an insurer to provide insurance for every instance of a conceivable 
critical (serious) illness a person may suffer from, because the cost would be inherently 
unaffordable for most policyholders taking out the insurance. What critical illness policies 
provide is insurance against being diagnosed with the most common instances of severe 
illnesses and the most commonly occurring serious events. 
The other two claims appear to be of a hypothetical nature. I have seen no evidence that Mr 
K is incapacitated such that he cannot work or has permanent failure of functionality.
The type of TPD cover Mr K holds is reflected in the policy wording for neurological diseases 
and it is based on functional activities  at either severity level A or C. The lower of these two 
levels requires the permanent failure of two from a list of six functional activity tests (FATs). 
The higher severity level requires four of six FATs. The FATs comprise continence, dressing, 
feeding, mobility, transferring and washing; each has its own strict definition.  
If Mr K feels that he might meet any of these definitions then he can approach Vitality to 
make a claim. I do not otherwise consider that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
determining there is no claim to pursue at this stage, as there is no evidence that such a 
claim is required.  
Finally, Mr Ks policy provides income protection benefit. This is payable following the 
deferred period defined in Mr Ks policy schedule  which is three months. It also requires 
the policyholder to provide written notice to Vitality within one month of the end of the 
deferred period (though this can be extended to 90 days). The policy then goes on to confirm that the benefit will be paid if Mr K becomes disabled, ill, 
or injured and he is incapacitated from either performing the material and substantial duties 
of his own occupation, or incapable of a specific set of activities of daily work or activities of 
daily living  whichever is the more favourable.  
I have not seen any evidence that Mr K has been unable to work because of his diagnosis 
for longer than this period. However, even if I assume this was the case, I do not believe that 
Vitality is wrong to refuse a claim in these particular circumstances.  
The wording of the exclusion above specifically prohibits Mr K from making an income 
protection claim if any illness or incapacity arises directly or indirectly from any disease or 
disorder covered within the nervous system benefit or any associated complications.  
I accept that Appendix 1c in the Serious Illness Cover section of Mr Ks policy wording 
Stroke and Nervous System category  specified conditions of defined severity covers 
many diseases and illnesses, some of which are unrelated from the symptoms Mr K had 
before he was insured  and those he suffers from now.  
As Ive said before, it is unclear whether Mr K has any evidence which would allow him to 
consider a valid claim for the above serious illness policy definition. But even if this were so, 
he cannot claim  in principle, for any of the listed conditions in Appendix 1s Stroke and 
Nervous System category  specified conditions of defined severity are excluded.  
However, the information given by the underwriter at the time to Mr Ks IFA explained how it 
would show a fair and reasonable interpretation of that category (which has more than 30 
listed conditions) and only apply the exclusion for conditions arising or connected to the 
medical disclosure Mr K made. For that reason, the underwriter confirmed:
Thanks for your call. I can confirm that if the client were to suffer with a totally 
unrelated [my emphasis] condition, then I would NOT be looking to apply the 
exclusion wording here. So if for example he were to develop a brain tumour, MS or 
another unrelated condition, then these would be covered.
The crux of the matter here is that Vitality says Mr Ks diagnosis is related to his previous 
symptoms, meaning that if he were off work because of it, he cannot make an income 
protection claim due to the policy exclusion. I find that to be a fair interpretation.  
Ive seen medical journal evidence which explains how hereditary neuropathy relating to 
pressure palsies is often overlooked in the first instance, whereby patients may undergo 
carpal tunnel release or ulnar nerve transposition prior to being correctly diagnosed. The 
evidence from Dr S does not alter that; it provides a contrasting view on the uncertainty of Mr 
Ks current diagnosis being related to his previous long-standing history of ulnar nerve 
symptoms. However, it is inconclusive either way.
That Vitality wrote to the GP in July 2010 regarding the ulnar nerve compression hasnt 
changed my view on it fairly applying the exclusion now either. Vitality said:
Serious Illness Cover and Income Protection Cover have been accepted on special 
terms in view of:
Peripheral neuropathies. 
Based on the evidence we received, the altered conduction is confined to the upper arms (ulnar) and has been present for some time, thus we have excluded any 
neurological conditions from SIC and IPC. 
I do not accept Mr Ks argument that because his condition was restricted to his upper limbs 
at that time, that Vitality would cover a subsequent peripheral neuropathy diagnosis which 
also included the lower limbs. That is not what is being said; the explanation is merely to tell 
the GP what the underwriters reasoning was.  
The reason for that is clarified in the first part of the letter, which says Mr K has asked us to 
explain the reason for our decision, but due to the confidential nature of the information, we 
are unable to reply directly to him so have asked him to contact you to discuss this.
That Vitality decided to include a policy exclusion was a matter of its commercial judgement. 
The policy terms were confirmed before Mr K accepted the insurance offer  and I do not 
believe that application of the exclusion now means it has behaved unfairly or unreasonably. 
Through the underwriting process, any pre-existing risk that Vitality did not want to accept 
was removed, ensuring its policyholders are placed at an equal risk level. This was the 
reason for exclusions such as Mr Ks. When a claim is later pursued (hypothetically or 
otherwise) it will assess if the condition being claimed for is related to the pre-existing risk 
that was present already at underwriting stage. If so, it is excluded accordingly in line with 
the policy wording for the exclusion.  
I know Mr K feels strongly that the exclusion will have a blanket effect  but Vitality has given 
written confirmation in its final response letter that it wont do so, if Mr K goes on to suffer 
with an unrelated neurological or nervous system condition. To remind Mr K, Vitality said:
This does not mean that you may never be able to claim under the nervous system 
benefit. If there is a new health event, for example headaches with new sudden leg 
weakness and a brain scan shows this to be due to a brain tumour, then this was a 
risk not foreseen at application stage and therefore not intended to be excluded. In 
other words, the risk of developing a brain tumour would have been equal to any 
other applicant without any pre-existing neurological complaints. This explains the e-
mail by [underwriter] to [financial adviser] that a totally unrelated condition, for 
example MS or a brain tumour, will be covered. This email was not to remove the 
exclusion.
An exclusion relating to peripheral neuropathies was applied and fully reasoned in 2010. Mr 
K has since gone on to be diagnosed with a hereditary type of peripheral neuropathies, 
involving palsies. He cannot pursue a claim relating to that diagnosis now, as it is excluded.
My final decision
Though my decision will no doubt be disappointing for Mr K, I cannot uphold his complaint 
for the reasons set out in full above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman