DRN-2135336
The complaint
Mr S and Ms T complain about the settlement ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has paid them 
for a claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S and Ms T were on holiday abroad. While on a coach trip, they realised their passports 
were missing. They werent able to find them in their hotel safe, where theyd been stored. 
They reported the loss to the local Police.
Because their passports had been lost/stolen, Mr S and Ms T had to apply for emergency 
passports. They had to book new flights home and returned a day later than theyd planned.
Mr S and Ms T made a claim to ERGO. They included the costs of: travelling between two 
cities to sort things out; their new flights; luggage storage; two additional nights of 
accommodation; the emergency documents and their lost/stolen passports.
ERGO accepted the claim. It considered it under the Accidental loss or theft of personal 
money and travel documents section of the policy. This covers the reasonable costs in 
getting a new passport and the proportionate value of the old one  considering the time left 
on it. So it said Mr S and Ms T were only entitled to settlement for the proportionate value of 
their lost/stolen passports. It didnt agree to cover any of the other costs theyd claimed for.
Mr S and Ms T werent happy with ERGOs offer. They said theyd been told that their flights, 
accommodation and passport fee would be covered. They felt the policy should cover them 
for up to £300 each. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Ultimately, ERGO has now offered to reimburse Mr S and Ms T for the cost of their coach 
tickets and the extra night they had to stay abroad while their replacement passports were 
obtained.  This is an extra £184 on top of the settlement of £162.91 its already paid Mr S 
and Ms T for the value of their old passports. 
Our investigator thought this offer was fair and reasonable. She didnt think the policy 
covered the cost of the replacement flight. 
Ms S and Ms T didnt accept ERGOs new offer. They felt ERGO should also pay for their 
luggage storage and for two days of food.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think ERGOs offer is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
I appreciate it mustve been very upsetting and stressful for Mr S and Ms T when they 
realised their passports were missing. Particularly when they learned their emergency 
documents wouldnt be ready in time for their scheduled return flight. 
But I need to make my decision based on whether I think ERGO has considered the claim in 
line with the policy terms. So Ive looked closely the policy. The Accidental loss or theft of 
personal money and travel documents section explains whats covered. It says:
2. Reasonable additional costs incurred in obtaining replacements.
 3. If Your passport is lost or stolen outside the country of departure during a trip, We will pay   
up to the amount shown in Your Policy Schedule for the cost of replacing Your passport. Any 
settlement would be calculated according to the original passports expiry date. A 
proportionate refund of the unused part of the passports original value would be made 
depending upon how many complete years it was to remain valid for.
I need to consider whether the things Mr S and Ms T have claimed for are reasonable costs 
they incurred in getting replacement travel documents. 
The policy does cover a proportionate refund of the unused part of the old passports original 
value. It doesnt cover the costs of the emergency documents though or getting a new 
passport. From what Ive seen, ERGO calculated the proportionate settlement based on Mr 
S having 113 months left on his passport and Ms T having 117 months left on hers. The 
calculation appears correct based on this information. Mr S and Ms T confirmed they 
received the payment.
ERGO has now offered to pay Mr S and Ms T a further £184 for their coach costs in 
travelling to sort things out and for the extra night they had to remain abroad while they 
waited for their replacement passports to be ready. I think these are reasonable additional 
costs they incurred in getting replacement passports and so I think its fair and appropriate 
for ERGO to meet these costs. Im pleased its now offered to do so.
But I dont think ERGO needs to pay anything further towards Mr S and Ms Ts claim. I dont 
think their replacement flights, luggage storage costs or food costs are covered by this, or 
any other section of the policy. While some of these expenses were incurred because theyd 
lost their passports, I dont think these are costs that were incurred in replacing them. I think 
they were broadly unfortunate consequential losses.
And whether Mr S and Ms T had been abroad or had been able to return on their original 
flight, theyd have likely always needed to buy food. So I dont think I could reasonably direct 
ERGO to reimburse them for these costs.
I appreciate Mr S and Ms T feel they were misled into thinking their full claim would be paid. 
So Ive listened to the call between Ms T and ERGOs claims handler. I dont think he misled 
Ms T during the call. I think he explained that a proportionate value of the original passport 
would be paid, but not the replacement. He was clear that flights and food wouldnt be 
covered. He suggested Ms T complete a claim form for the claim so it could be considered 
and ERGO could decide what was and wasnt covered. 
Even if I thought he had misled Ms T though, I wouldnt have told ERGO it needed to pay the 
entire claim. Thats because Ms T and Mr S had already incurred all of the expenses they 
were claiming for. So they didnt lose out as a result of Ms Ts conversation with the claims 
handler.
Mr S and Ms T are unhappy because theyre unclear about what the £300 policy limit covers. 
ERGO doesnt need to always pay out £300 in claims like these  thats simply the limit of 
what itll pay for the costs incurred in replacing a passport and a proportionate refund of the value of the lost passports. Im not a regulator, so I cant tell ERGO what policy limits it 
should apply. My role is to look at if its applied its policy terms fairly. And overall, I think it 
now has. So Ive decided ERGOs current offer is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that ERGOs offer of settlement is fair 
and reasonable.
I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mr S and Ms T £184 for their coach costs and 
one night of extra accommodation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman