DRN-3220781
The complaint
Mr W is complaining because when handing back the car he acquired from Moneybarn 
Limited, he was told it had accident damage. He says he hadnt had an accident, so was 
unhappy that hed been supplied a car with accident damage, and that he was potentially 
being charged for this damage. 
What happened
Mr W entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in April 2018. He had 
contacted them himself to see if they could arrange finance for a car for him, and they had 
given him their criteria for cars they would be able to provide finance for. He then sourced 
the car himself, and the agreement was drawn up by Moneybarn. It was over 60 months, 
with payments of just over £600 a month. 
In 2020, Mr W began to discuss voluntarily terminating the agreement as his financial 
circumstances had changed. He proceeded with this in January 2021, and when the car was 
collected, the collecting agent said there was evidence of damage to the bonnet and other 
parts of the car that looked like accident damage and would fall outside of acceptable wear 
and tear. 
Mr W was upset because he said hed not had an accident, so was surprised the car must 
have had an accident before he had acquired it. Initially, Moneybarn said the damage costs 
would be around £1800, and this was still owed, as well as around another £1800 which was 
because Mr W had taken a 3 month payment holiday, so these payments remained due. 
However, they said that rather than expect him to pay the damage charge to get the car 
repaired, it was more economically viable for them to sell the car as it was, and see if the 
proceeds of the sale meant they didnt need to make the full damage charge. 
A few days later, they confirmed to him that he was only required to pay the £1800 for the 
payment holiday payments he hadnt made, and there was no charge for repairs. 
Mr W had already complained to the business. He was unhappy at the service Moneybarn 
had provided him, he didnt think he should be liable for any damage charges, and he felt he 
was mis-sold the vehicle because it was damaged. 
Moneybarn responded in September 2021, saying that the choice of car had been Mr Ws, 
and it was his responsibility to carry out relevant checks. They said they had a HPI check 
which confirmed the car had not been an insurance write off. They also said that they had 
now sold the car so there were no repair charges outstanding for the damages, and 
therefore the only money still owed was for the payment holiday payments. They did uphold 
his complaint about their customer service however, recognising delays in replying to him, 
and reduced £100 from the balance he owed them in respect of this. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W asked our service to get involved. An investigator here looked at 
the case and gave their view that Moneybarn didnt need to do any more. They said that they 
didnt feel Moneybarn were obliged to inspect the car before it was acquired by Mr W for 
damage, and that any concerns Mr W had were retrospective; he said he only became 
aware of the damage when the car was collected at the end of his agreement, so it hadnt 
caused any actual impact to him or his use of the car. And he hadnt been charged for it, so 
Moneybarn had acted fairly. 
This response also noted that customer service isnt something within our remit to make a 
finding on, but the investigator was glad to note Moneybarn had made a £100 offer for their 
failings here. Mr W was unhappy with this response and asked for an Ombudsman to 
reconsider his case. He said he thinks its unfair that the car was inspected at the end of the 
agreement but not the beginning. He also reiterated that he felt the service and 
communication he had received from the business was poor and that he felt they were trying 
to con him out of money at the time for something that wasnt his fault. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ws unhappiness at the service he received from Moneybarn, its not 
within my remit to deal with the service a business provides when complaint handling, which 
is where the delays occurred. 
I also cant consider hypothetical problems; Mr W is upset that he used the car to drive his 
children around, and it might not have been safe. There were no issues Mr W made us 
aware of that occurred, and he told us he only became aware of the accident damage when 
the car was being collected at the end of the agreement.  
Similarly, he had already made the decision to voluntary terminate the finance agreement for 
his own reasons due to a change in his financial circumstances. So, finding out that the car 
was damaged had no impact on this choice; there was no consideration to continuing the 
agreement and owning the car at the end. Hed already decided not to do this. 
Financially, the business has not made any charge for damages to the car. They explained 
in a letter on 28 January 2021, that the cost to repair the damages would be £1861, and 
rather than complete those repairs and bill Mr W, they would sell the vehicle as it was at 
auction, to see if they could achieve a better outcome for Mr W meaning they could reduce 
the final amount he owed them. 
This is what they did, and a week later on 4 February 2021, they wrote to him confirming the 
only money he needed to pay was £1809.87 for the payments he hadnt made when he took 
a payment holiday. So, he had to pay nothing towards the cost of those damages. In effect, 
the problem which had concerned him when the car was collected on 21 January 2021, had 
been dealt with. By 4 February 2021, there was no financial impact on Mr W from this issue 
about accident damage. 
I completely understand how Mr W would feel, and how the whole thing has left a bad taste 
in his mouth. But I have to focus on the facts, and the actual impact on him. There is no 
evidence that the accident damage occurred either before Mr W owned the car, or whilst he 
owned it. There is also no reason to think Mr W isnt telling the truth. Many cars have had 
accidents and are re-sold on having been repaired to different levels of quality, and it does 
fall upon the person acquiring the car to assess it and decide whether to proceed. There is 
no requirement for the business to assess the car themselves prior to setting up the finance 
agreement. However, if a car was supplied with any defects which ended up causing repair 
costs or reducing the value of a car that became owned by the consumer, then there may be 
grounds for a complaint. But in this case, this doesnt apply, because there has been no financial impact to Mr W. 
The car presumably passed its MOT tests while Mr W was in possession of it for 2.5 years, 
and he travelled around 28,000 miles in the car before ending the agreement. The car was 
roadworthy. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr W wouldnt have wanted the car if hed known there was any accident 
damage, the damage hasnt caused him any financial loss, and didnt cause him any upset 
or distress while he used the car. He also didnt have to make any repairs to make the car 
roadworthy. When hes ended the agreement, the damage discovered hasnt caused him 
any financial loss. On this basis, I cant agree that he should be due any compensation here. 
The money owing in respect of the payment holiday hasnt been challenged by Mr W, and 
would always have needed paying. I am satisfied this was correct and communicated 
correctly by the business. 
The customer service he has received from Moneybarn after ending his agreement isnt 
something thats within my power to make a finding on. They have apologised and offered 
him £100 themselves for this, which I was pleased to see.
Overall, whilst I understand Mr Ws frustration with the business and how this agreement 
ended, it hasnt cost him anything financially, and there was no trouble or upset caused to 
him while he was using the car or while he was paying for the financial agreement for it. Its 
an unfortunate situation which has left Mr W feeling unhappy, but as there was no impact on 
him during the agreement, and no financial impact caused when he ended the agreement, I 
wont be asking the business to do any more here.    
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman