DRN-4006787
The complaint
Mr M complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC, referred to as Barclays or the business, 
about his experience of the smart investor platform.
In short, he says Barclays made a major error on his account by choosing to ignore his 
instructions to trade. It then tried to remedy the error but ended up compounding it. Matters 
were then made worse by poor communication.  
Mr M is unhappy with the redress offered by Barclays. He would like Barclays to pay for the 
losses claimed as well as significant compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. 
What happened
Mr M has an investment ISA with Barclays  he generally day-trades in FTSE 100 
companies like BP and Glencore. He says he trades on a matched basis, buying a specific 
number of stock and later selling that specific number.  
On 13 August 2021, Mr M tried to purchase Glencore shares using the smart investor online 
platform. Due to system errors the trades showed as pending, suggesting that his 
instructions hadnt gone through. Barclays says that this is when the quote and deal outage 
happened  around 15:00 with this being resolved by approximately 16:15. 
On the same day, Mr M contacted Barclays via the online chat and was told that 14 trades 
out of the 80 attempts had been executed, reducing his cash balance by around £120,000. 
Hed only intended to place one or two buy orders.
During the chat Mr M noticed that the price of the shares had increased, so he asked the 
business to sell the executed orders, so that hed at least benefit from the error. However, he 
was told that they couldnt take the order via chat but would refer him to another team to 
explore how they could correct the position. Barclays says Mr M was led to believe that it 
wasnt an easy fix. 
Mr M, expecting all the executed orders to be sold, placed an additional buy order at 16.19 
the same day, so that hed be left with the same number of orders as hed originally 
intended. 
But Barclays didnt sell the shares and confirmed this during a webchat the next morning on 
14 August 2021. The same day Mr M texted Barclays instructing them not to take any action, 
in other words leave things as they are, and that hed deal with the mess himself. 
On 16 August 2021, at 07:49, Mr M told Barclays via webchat that hed sell the shares 
himself to which Barclays said: that is great. Presumably, Mr M, like the operative, was 
under the impression that no action had been taken in relation to the executed orders.  
At 08:00 that day, and before the remedial action, Mr M sold 9,547 shares (around £40,000) 
to correct four of the unintended buy orders. However, Barclays in due reversed 13 of the 14 
trades between 16 August 2021 and 17 August 2021, which it says it did to correct the error 
whilst keeping the trade that hed intended to make, and money was transferred to his smart 
investor platform. However, this meant the sale that Mr M put though was a duplication  
Barclays had also (erroneously) reversed the buy order hed placed at 16:19 on 13 August 
2021. In respect of the last part Barclays offered to buy back the share, with no cost to Mr M, 
but he refused. 
 
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays didnt sell the shares at profit when he instructed it to do so. 
He says he wouldve bought more Glencore shares using his reserves when the share price 
fell on 16 August 2021, and then sold them when the price recovered either that day or the 
next day. However, he was prevented from doing so because his cash balance was depleted 
by erroneous trades, so hes lost this opportunity. He therefore wants compensation for this 
too.
Mr M also says that because of the duplicate sale, his system of matched trading was 
disrupted, because it took shares from his existing Glencore holdings. And because he was 
unsure about his position, he ended up selling all his holdings to cash to reset his portfolio, 
all of this caused him a great deal of anxiety. 
In November 2021, Mr M suggested that Barclays should reverse the duplicated 
cancellations they carried out. He said it couldve purchased the shares for him at a lower 
price, giving him an additional £3,000 value. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Barclays upheld the complaint  it accepts that a systems error occurred on 13 
August 2021 and this caused Mr M to buy more shares than he intended to. The 
concern is whether or not the redress offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable. 
If the (initial) systems error didnt happen, its likely that Mr M wouldve bought two 
lots of shares, and at some point he wouldve sold those at profit if possible  this 
was his general pattern with Glencore shares. 
During the chat Mr M was asked what trades he intended to complete, but he didnt 
answer, so its not clear what his intentions were in this instance. However, this 
notwithstanding, Barclays still failed to carry out his instructions to sell shares that 
hed acquired. 
An internal query was raised by Barclays over what would happen where a customer 
holds extra shares due to an error by it and the answer was: We can sell and let the 
customer keep the profit. So, the opportunity was there, and Mr Ms actions 
shouldve been acted upon, but Barclays didnt take action. 
Barclays said that Mr M couldve sold the stock himself that day, but it was 
unreasonable to expect him to do so, when the trades were showing as pending 
only earlier that day. He wouldnt have known whether placing manual sell orders 
wouldve created further problems, and the adviser didnt suggest he do so either. 
Even if Barclays had acted on Mr Ms instructions, its not clear when it wouldve sold 
the shares. So, by way of redress for this error Barclays should calculate the profit Mr 
M wouldve made if hed sold the 14 original executed transactions based on the 
average market price from when he first requested the sale at 15:52 until the end of 
the trading that day  it should pay him the profit made.  
Barclays should also add 8% interest on this amount from 13 August 2021 to the 
date of payment because Mr M has been deprived of access to this money, and he 
probably couldve been earning a return on the money. Its likely he wouldve 
continued to trade using the extra profit, but Barclays error led to Mr M selling the 
shares himself. On 14 August 2021 Mr M sent Barclays a text message. Barclays says it picks up 
text messages within 48 hours, so wouldnt have had an opportunity to respond to 
him. Mr M still double checked the position on webchat (the next day) before selling 
the shares himself  the business even confirmed that he was ok to go ahead. 
Barclays shouldve told Mr M that it was in the process of reversing the trades but 
didnt. Of course, if it had acted on his instructions in the first place this wouldnt have 
happened in any case. 
Barclays offered to pay Mr M £380.53  the difference between the purchase price 
and sale price  which is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances, because 
Mr M sold the shares at a loss.   
He doesnt accept that Barclays shouldve taken advantage of the lower price in 
November 2021 by reversing the sell orders and buying more orders with the money. 
Mr M had already received the cash proceeds from the duplicated sales, and 
presumably used this to trade between August 2021 and November 2021. 
Barclays couldnt retrospectively reverse this in November 2021, if it did, Mr M 
wouldve benefitted from having cash to trade plus extra shares (in November 2021), 
from his proposed redress. Mr M was also free to buy extra shares himself in 
November 2021.   
Barclays had also reversed the final (intentional) trade Mr M placed at 16.19 on 13 
August 2021. Despite what Mr M says, Barclays offer to buy back these shares at no 
extra cost to Mr M is fair and reasonable. 
In the chat dated 13 August 2021, Barclays listed all the executed trades. By 17 
August 2021, all except one trade had been reversed by Barclays. Mr M confirmed 
the trades appeared on his account, albeit in a confusing manner. 
On 18 August 2021, Barclays confirmed that it had reversed the trades. In the 
circumstances its likely that Mr M by then, had all the information he needed to 
understand which trades had been placed and reversed. 
The above notwithstanding, the duplicate sale orders were likely to have impacted Mr 
Ms matching system. Some of his pre-existing Glencore holdings were sold, which 
he hadnt intended to sell  he couldnt match this against when these shares were 
purchased. 
In terms of a solution, Barclays could offer to return the exact number of shares that 
were double sold for the same price Mr M had received. Or, Barclays could provide 
Mr M the full calculation behind the £380 figure, so he can work out the purchase 
price for the double-sold shares and reconcile it with his records.   
In the circumstances, theres no record that Mr M raised an issue with Barclays. On 
20 August 2021, he advised them that hed purchased more shares and that the 
position was fine. So, Barclays didnt have an opportunity to help Mr M reconcile the 
position for his matching system. 
By 18 October 2021, Mr M sold all his holdings to cash. But it was his decision, so 
Barclays cant be held responsible for the impact of this. 
Mr Ms cash balance was used up by the erroneous buy orders on 13 August 2021, 
so until the trades were reversed, there was a period he was out of the market due to 
Barclays wrongdoing. 
Mr M says:
oOn 16 August 2021, hed purchased four lots of shares, taking his cash 
balance to £66.73. 
oOn 17 August 2021, he didnt realise his cash had increased to £65,053.62, 
due to Barclays reversing the trades. But he purchased a further two trades 
valued at approximately £16,000, thus the cash balance reduced to 
£58,055.57. 
oBut for the errors on 13 August 2021, he wouldve had much more cash 
available, and he wouldve purchased more shares on the morning of 16 August 2021  or more likely when they fell 5%, and he wouldve sold when 
the prices recovered on 16 August 2021 or 17 August 2021.
What Mr M says he wouldve done, isnt supported by his trading pattern. For 
example, whilst he says he wouldve sold at profit on 16 August 2021 or 17 August 
2021, he also states that he bought £16,000 worth of shares, so his actual trading 
behavior doesnt match his claim. 
Its also unclear why Mr M wouldve purchased additional shares (worth £16,000) on 
17 August 2021, if he wasnt aware that the trades had been reversed  he had cash 
available to buy shares. 
On 16 August 2021, Mr M used all the cash available to purchase Glencore shares, 
therefore its likely he wouldve bought more if he had the cash. However, his claim 
that he wouldve sold these for profit is done so with the benefit of hindsight and 
assumes that he wouldve both bought and sold at the optimal time  theres no 
contemporaneous evidence to support this claim. Mr M also refers to what he 
probably wouldve done or was likely to have done, which suggests that he had no 
definitive plan in place.  
Mr M was aware of the reversals  no later than 18 August 2021  so he was able to 
do what he wanted from this point onwards. The investigator isnt persuaded that he 
lost profits between 13-16 August 2021, especially with a weekend in the middle. 
In terms of distress and inconvenience, Mr M is unhappy with the £400 compensation 
offered by Barclays. He says hes significant distress and inconvenience over a long 
period of time. But much of the impact he refers to is related to and covered by the 
other complaint thats been dealt with. Whilst Mr M maintains the cases are 
inextricably linked, as the duplicate trades contributed to other problems including 
negative balance showing on his account. However, the two complaints related to 
entirely separate incidents, and thats why hes considered the impact of each 
separately.  
Its clear that Mr M was worried about everything that had happened and had 
concerns about the platform, but that said, £400 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
He cant say what he wouldve done, had the error not happened because the market 
changes so rapidly and unexpectedly. 
If he had cash, he wouldve bought when prices were low and sold high but his 
account being frozen prevented this.  
The investigator is right that the manual sale he (Mr M) made was duplicated by the 
later reversal of the trades by Barclays. As a result, the unrealised over-selling 
situation of 13 August 2021 was essentially remedied in November 2021, along with 
overselling in May 2021. 
In relation to the errors (relating to instructions to sell the shares) the investigator 
said: the customer keeps the profit. But in relation to the other complaint, Barclays 
argued that the profit on the extra shares should form part of the compensation which 
is inconsistent and unfair.   
The investigator said the customer keeps the profit that in this case the errors 
relating to his instructions to sell shares on the extra shares, but in the other case the 
investigator suggested that his profits should form part of the compensation which is 
inconsistent.  
Its not realistic to use an average price throughout the day to calculate what profit 
couldve been made. Whilst he lost approximately £400 on selling the 4 shares to compensate for 
Barclays error, the loss wouldve been significantly higher, had he not acted when he 
did, and even a minute later the loss wouldve doubled. 
The investigators support of Barclays proposed redress regarding the trade placed 
at 16:19 (on 13 August 2021) is misplaced. Barclays offer to buy back the share is 
misplaced, an alternative option  that hed written to Barclays about  was more 
appropriate. 
The investigators logic of his trading behavior doesnt reflect reality. The investigator 
isnt qualified to have an opinion on this.  
His claim that he wouldve bought on 16 August 2021 is based on hindsight and he 
may not have sold on 16/17 August. But he wouldve done what hes done for the last 
10 years and sold at a profit. He only wrote what he honestly believed to be the case 
at the time. 
If this had been an isolated incident, he wouldve had sympathy. But during the past 
year Barclays have made so many errors.  
The investigator has simply agreed with Barclays (for both of his complaints) which is 
extremely disappointing.  
To put thing right hed like the ombudsman to consider the following:
oReverse the four error trades during the quote and deal error, thus providing 
him with 9,457 additional Glencore shares, at a cost to Barclays.
oBarclays should also compensate him for the remining error trades despite 
his instructions for it to do nothing.
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators uphold for much the same reasons. On the 
face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Barclays made an error on 13 August 
2021 by failing to carry out Mr Ms instructions which Barclays accepts. 
As Barclays has upheld the complaint, the key issue for me to consider is whether (or not) 
the redress offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable. Having done so, on balance Im not 
persuaded that the redress offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
given the impact of the overall error. However, and on balance, I broadly agree with the 
investigators proposal. 
But before I explain why, I think its still important for me to recognise the strength of feeling 
Mr M has about this matter. Hes provided very detailed submissions to support the 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points.My role is to consider the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Its not 
my role to punish the business (or take away its licence) for any regulatory breaches either, 
thats the role of the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA). My role is 
to decide if Barclays has done anything wrong and where appropriate award redress for any 
financial losses for which its responsible and/or compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience caused.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
Im aware Mr M has questions about why the business acted in the way that it did, but my 
not seeking to answer these questions doesnt prevent me from reaching a decision in this 
case.
I dont think theres any dispute that Barclays system wasnt properly working on 13 August 
2021, which prevented Mr M from placing the specific trades that he wanted to. I note the 
trades repeatedly showed as pending, therefor I cant blame him for making multiple 
requests in the hope that it would go through. Evidently, he was keen to trade at that point.   
It seems that the system eventually caught up with itself, but 14 trades out of the 80 attempts 
had been executed, in other words, many more trades than Mr M had intended had been 
actioned, consequently reducing his available funds by around £120,000. I note Mr M only 
intended to place one or two buy orders. 
I note Barclays says its priority was to put customers back in the position almost as though 
the trades never happened. But in this instance, Im aware that Mr M asked Barclays to sell 
his shares instead, because hed hoped to make some profit. Had Barclays successfully 
done so, the matter wouldve probably gone no further, but it didnt and instead sent him to 
another department for it to deal with the matter.  
 
Based on its internal enquiry findings, it seems that Barclays was in a position to sell the 
shares that Mr M acquired in error, and in my opinion ought reasonably to have done so 
when instructed by Mr M to do so following the quote and deal outage.  
On balance I agree with the investigator that the opportunity was there to get matters sorted 
but it wasnt done, and instead as a result of other issues including poor communication the 
matter wasnt dealt with once and for all.   
Despite what Barclays says, given the issues that Mr M was experiencing at the time, Im not 
surprised that he didnt try to sell the shares himself at that point  I cant fault him for not 
doing so. Despite what Barclays initially said, its also likely that owing to the issues he was 
unlikely to be able to do so online.   
Whilst I appreciate what Barclays says about price movement of shares, in the 
circumstances, and on balance, I agree with the investigators recommendation for redress. 
On balance I think the business should pay Mr M redress based on the profit he wouldve 
made if hed sold the 14 original executed orders  based on the average market price from 
when he first requested the sale at 15:52 until the end of the trading day  with 8% simple 
interest from 13 August 2021, to the date of payment, because Mr M has been deprived of 
this money. Im satisfied that the redress broadly deals with that issue. I appreciate that Mr M isnt happy with the redress with regards to this, but it isnt possible to 
know when exactly when the shares would have been sold on the day which is why I think 
the average price is appropriate. Furthermore, Ive assumed that the price didnt drop below 
the purchase price in this period, as I believe Mr M would obviously not have sold at a loss 
and I think any such price should be disregarded from the average for that reason. I dont 
think a provisional decision is necessary in the circumstances. 
 
In due course, I note that when Mr M told Barclays that he would manually sell his own 
shares, it shouldve told him that it had reversed the trades, or was in the process of doing 
so, but failed to do so probably because the chat operator was unaware of the bigger 
picture. 
I note Mr M even sent a text message to the business and checked the position on webchat 
the day after but was (erroneously) told to go ahead. Once again, I agree with the 
investigator that this wouldnt have happened had Barclays successfully carried out his 
original instructions and/or subsequently communicated with him using up to date and 
correct information.  
By way of compensation, I note Barclays offered to pay Mr M £380.53  the difference 
between the purchase price and sale price of the shares  which I think is broadly fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, because the shares were sold at a loss.  Im aware that Mr 
M doesnt accept this offer.   
I note Barclays also erroneously reversed the (intentional) trade that Mr M placed at 16.19 
on 13 August 2021. Despite what Mr M says, I note Barclays offered to buy back these 
shares at no extra cost, which I think is broadly fair and reasonable even though Mr M 
disagrees. 
Despite what Mr M says about what he wouldve done, I agree with the investigator that his 
suggestions arent supported by his actions in this instance. I note Mr M concedes My claim 
that I would have bought on 16 August and sold at a profit on 16/17 August is of course 
based on hindsight, and that he may not have sold on 16/17 August 2021  although I note 
he also says hes done this for the past 10 years, and wouldve held to sell at a profit. But on 
balance, whilst I dont question his sincerity and what hed done in the past, I think its 
unlikely he wouldve done the same (in other words what he says he wouldve) in this 
instance with all the issues going on.
I also note I reference to the investigators observations Mr M refers to what he probably 
wouldve done or was likely to have done, which suggests that he had no firm trading plan 
in place. Instead, I think its more likely than not, what he says he wouldve done, has been 
said in hindsight. 
In other words, I appreciate what Mr M says about what he wouldve done in terms of buying 
and selling shares at the optimal price. But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I 
cant safely say he wouldve without the benefit of hindsight. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says, I cant safely say that 
the hes lost profits between 13-16 August 2021 (with a weekend in the middle) as 
suggested by him, or that he simply couldnt do what he wanted to. 
I note that on or by 18 August 2021, Barclays confirmed that it had reversed all the trades. 
Therefore, its likely that by then, Mr M had all the information he needed to understand 
which trades had been placed and reversed. In terms of distress and inconvenience, I appreciate Mr M is unhappy with the £400 offered 
by the business. But on balance I agree with the investigator that much of the impact he 
describes relates to the other complaint that Ive already considered  but not upheld on the 
basis that the significant profits and dividend payment that the business is allowing Mr M to 
keep more than makes up for/offsets any compensation payment for distress and 
inconvenience.
Overall and on balance I think the £400 compensation offered for the distress and 
inconvenience  in addition to the other redress  is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and takes into account the pressure, worry, concern and loss of expectation 
Mr M had suffered primarily by Barclays not doing what it said it would. 
I appreciated that the two cases are somewhat linked in that theyre about Mr Ms investment 
against the same business but theyre also separate cases about two separate matters. 
Therefore, I dont think the investigator has done anything wrong by separating the 
complaints and dealing with them as such. On balance, I dont agree that the findings in this 
case are inconsistent or unfair, as each case has been decided on its own individual merits. 
I note that by 18 October 2021, Mr M sold all his holdings to cash. But despite what he says, 
I think the decision to do so was of his own volition  not based on any advice or guidance 
from the business  therefore the business isnt responsible for any losses claimed for this 
particular course of action. Im mindful that the smart investor platform provides an execution 
only service. 
On balance, I agree with the investigator that Mr M was aware of the reversals no later than 
18 August 2021  the notes from the time make clear that Barclays had reversed all 
transactions  so he was able to do what he wanted from this point onwards. 
I appreciate Mr M will be thoroughly disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. On the face of the available 
evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
Putting things right
By way of redress Barclays Bank UK PLC should do the following:
Pay Mr M the profit he wouldve made if hed sold the 14 original executed shares  
based on the average market price from when he first requested the sale at 15:52 on 
13 August 2021, until the end of the trading day, with 8% simple interest from 13 
August 2021, to the date of payment. 
Pay Mr M £380.53, which is the difference between the purchase price and sale price 
of the shares purchased on 14 August 2021. 
In relation to the trade Mr M placed at 16:19 on 13 August 2021, buy back the shares 
at no cost to him. 
Pay Mr M £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr M redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman