DRN-2028574
The complaint
Mrs B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a personal loan. 
What happened
In October 2019, Mrs B wanted to borrow around £3,000 with the intention of giving it to her 
son. She had an existing personal loan with HSBC and had been sent an email, which 
advertised that she might be eligible to go for another loan with the bank at a low interest 
rate. So, she decided to take out a loan with HSBC for £5,920, which consolidated the 
original loan and gave her the additional money that she wanted for her son.  
HSBC approved the online application and granted the lending to Mrs B, at an Annual 
Percentage Rate (APR) of 6.1%. It her sent her pre-contract credit information which set out 
the terms of agreement, which Mrs B accepted to go ahead. Amongst other things, this 
information detailed that the total amount she would need to pay would be £6,925.58; made 
up of the amount borrowed plus interest and other costs. 
Mrs B told HSBC she wanted the borrowing and signed the loan agreement. However, 
shortly afterwards, she changed her mind and asked to withdraw from the agreement. Her 
reasons for doing so, were because she thought that HSBC had charged far too much 
interest on the borrowing, especially when her previous loan had meant she would be paying 
roughly half as much  approximately £550. Also, she was upset to learn that she mightve 
been able to take advantage of a lower interest rate, had she of borrowed more. Which, in 
her opinion, meant that HSBC had mis-sold her the loan, because she couldve paid less 
interest while at the same time benefiting from having access to more money. 
HSBC accepted Mrs Bs request under her right to withdraw from the agreement within the 
first 14 days. It gave her a loan redemption quote of just under £3,000, which HSBC said 
was the amount shed need to pay back. Mrs B returned this amount to HSBC. 
However, Mrs B was upset to learn that the existing terms of the loan agreement were still in 
place. So, the interest rate of 6.1% APR still applied  instead of the lower rate of interest 
shed been paying on her original loan. Mrs B thought that by withdrawing from the 
agreement and paying back the borrowing, the rate of interest and other contract terms 
would revert back to that of her original loan. Unhappy with this, she raised a complaint. And 
during a conversation with a HSBC agent on the phone, Mrs B claims that she was spoken 
to rudely. 
HSBC said that the loan consolidated Mrs Bs existing borrowing and could not be reversed, 
even though shed exercised her right to withdraw. It pointed to the terms of the loan 
agreement which it said makes this clear. And it disagreed that it had mis-sold the loan, 
explaining that all credit applications are subject to status  so Mrs B was not guaranteed a 
lower rate that she mightve seen advertised. But it did apologise for the customer service 
that she received and offered her £50 compensation to reflect this. 
Mrs B declined this offer of compensation and remained unhappy. So, she brought the 
complaint to our service and asked us to consider whether HSBC had fairly arranged and 
then withdrawn the loan. One of our investigators looked into it and, after considering what 
information HSBC sent to Mrs B, she thought it had made things reasonably clear. Overall, 
she didnt think it had done anything wrong when coordinating both the set up or withdrawal. 
Mrs B does not agree. She maintains that HSBC ought to have reverted back to the original 
terms of borrowing when she withdrew from the loan. Or, at least matched the lower rate of 
interest shed seen advertised at approximately 3.3% APR. 
Because Mrs B does not agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
A regulated lender such as HSBC is responsible for accurately representing the terms of a 
proposed loan, so that a consumer can make an informed decision about whether its 
appropriate for their needs. Mrs B submits that she was charged too much interest. So, Ive 
considered the information that HSBC presented when she applied for the loan, to see if it 
made the costs of borrowing clear. 
HSBC has provided the pre-contract credit information, which Mrs B had to accept in order 
to proceed with the lending. We know this because, the application was made online, 
through a predominantly automated process. So, if Mrs B had decided that the costs of 
borrowing were not in keeping with what she wanted, she couldve declined to accept the 
contract at that point. Accordingly, HSBC wouldve stopped the application before taking it 
any further  and I can only assume it wouldve therefore kept to the terms of her existing 
loan agreement. 
The costs of the credit including the amount of interest payable are shown in this             
pre-contract document. These are displayed as both an interest rate, explained as APR. And 
as the total amount that Mrs B would have to pay i.e. the borrowing that equated to £5,920, 
plus interest and other applicable costs. In light of this, its my judgment that HSBC made the 
key features of the loan reasonably clear, before Mrs B was in any way bound to the 
contract. It follows that I cannot accept that she was misled into thinking that she was 
entering into a different agreement, or that shes now being charged more interest then she 
agreed to. 
I recognise that repaying an existing loan and borrowing additional funds is perhaps not as 
straightforward as taking out two entirely separate forms of credit. With that in mind, I can 
see why Mrs B thought she could withdraw from this loan and revert back to her original loan 
and its terms. I also can appreciate the circumstances that shes described meant that she 
needed the lending quickly. 
Nevertheless, included in the pre-contract information HSBC provided is an explanation of 
what options were available to Mrs B, if she changed her mind following the loan being 
granted and paid out. Amongst other things, this said that: If the loan is to repay any other 
borrowing from us, withdrawing from the loan agreement will not reinstate your existing 
agreements. These will end when we sign this loan agreement and apply this loan to repay 
everything you owe under those agreements. Its my judgment that this makes it reasonably clear that, if Mrs B gave her acceptance, 
using the loan to consolidate her existing borrowing meant she would be unable to revert 
back to the terms of her original loan agreement. By her own admission, Mrs B knew the 
outstanding balance and cost of her existing loan at the time. This, coupled with her intention 
to take an additional £3,000, persuades me that she was reasonably aware that this loan 
would consolidate her current borrowing.    
In any event, I must consider that, if Mrs B had any questions or wanted to clarify how the 
loan worked, she was able to pause the online application and contact HSBC. Again, at the 
point that HSBC proposed the terms of the contract, Mrs B was not bound to agree. So, if 
she had doubts about the appropriateness of the loan, that was the time for her to raise it  
or she faced being obliged to keep to certain terms of the agreement once it had been 
accepted. 
Finally, Ive considered whether HSBC should honour a lower rate of interest, based on it 
previously sending Mrs B advertisements. HSBC says that such marketing techniques are 
designed to give consumers only a representative example of what a loan might cost  but 
theres no guarantee that the same rate will be granted following an application. 
Its common place in the banking industry for promotions to display attractive products, such 
as personal loans. Ive seen no evidence that compels me to believe that HSBC promised 
Mrs B she would be eligible for a lower rate of interest to what was offered in the agreement 
in October 2019. Indeed, included in the particular promotion that Mrs B has submitted, it 
says; All lending subject to status. Different rates may apply, based on our assessment of 
your financial circumstances. 
As I see it, HSBC offered a loan with terms that it found viable at the time, based on what it 
knew about Mrs B and her relevant circumstances. Likewise, unless asked otherwise, HSBC 
would duly assess an application based on how much Mrs B asked to borrow. Consequently, 
Im satisfied that HSBC did not act unfairly by proposing the loan, nor do I find that it ought to 
have proactively told Mrs B about the possibility of a lower interest rate if she borrowed 
more. And for the avoidance of doubt, theres no guarantee that Mrs B wouldve secured a 
preferable interest rate, had she requested to borrow more anyway. 
Overall, the documentary evidence satisfies me that HSBC made it reasonably clear what 
the loan entailed  and, ultimately, Mrs B accepted these terms. So, I do not find it fair or 
reasonable to require HSBC to alter the agreement now.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman