DRN-1645242
The complaint
Mr N and Mr W are unhappy about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) putting a block on their 
current and flexible loan accounts. Once the block had been removed, HSBC failed to notify 
them. 
What happened
A block was placed on Mr N and Mr Ws accounts, this prevented them from making any 
payments towards their loan. Whilst the block was in place HSBC continued to apply interest 
on the loan. Both Mr N and Mr W found this unacceptable, they would like the interest 
refunded back to them. They were also under the impression that HSBC would send written 
confirmation once the block was removed. As this did not happen, they were unaware that 
they could start making payments towards the loan. 
HSBC initially requested the information from Mr W and Mr N in August 2014, they issued a 
letter advising Mr N and Mr W about the intention to restrict the activity on their accounts in 
May 2015. The block was eventually applied in June 2015. 
HSBC defended their position within the final response letter. They explained that during a 
visit to a local Branch on 26 February 2016, Mr W and Mr N were given a safeguarding form 
to fill in. It was agreed that once the forms had been returned the block from the loan would 
be removed. The block was removed on 1 March 2016. 
  
One of our investigators here looked into this matter and concluded that HSBC were entitled 
to put a block on the account. The interest that continued to accrue whilst the block was in 
place was correctly applied. And Mr W and Mr N had the relevant understanding of when the 
block would be removed from the account. On that basis, the investigator deemed that the 
actions of HSBC were fair and reasonable within the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr W and N remain unhappy with the view and requested for an ombudsman to look at the 
case. So, this has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Banks like HSBC are expected to have suitable systems in place for customer identification. 
This is known as Know your Customer or Safeguarding. They will routinely check that the 
information about customers is up to date. Typically, letters are sent to customers that 
request details of proof of address or updated identification. If the information is not 
provided, banks can restrict the accounts or close them. These processes ensure that a 
bank like HSBC can protect themselves from any security risks. 
This information is also available on the HSBC Business Banking terms and conditions that 
state If we make a reasonable request for information, you must give it to us as soon as 
possible. If you dont give it to us, we could block or close your account (s) or suspend your 
access to services (Section 11).  
I can see that HSBC were conducting a safeguarding check on Mr W and Mr Ns accounts. 
They sent several letters requesting details of identification and proof of address. These 
letters explained that if they did not receive the information by a certain date then a block 
would be placed on the account. As HSBC did not receive the information from Mr W and Mr 
N, the block was placed on their accounts which restricted their ability to use their account 
facilities including make payments towards the loan. From what I have seen, HSBC have 
acted in a fair manner in relation to this. 
I have seen no evidence that would prompt me to think that the interest should have not 
been applied when the block was placed. By agreeing to the loan, Mr W and Mr N have 
entered into a credit agreement with HSBC. I understand that a block was on the current 
account. But this did not mean that the loan was suspended or had come to an end. The 
letters dated 31 March 2015 states that HSBC would restrict the banking services on the 
account which could prevent Mr W and Mr N from carrying out transactions on their 
accounts. This would indicate that although the activity is restricted the actual loan would still 
be active and therefore interest would continue to apply. I dont think it was unfair of HSBC 
to apply the interest, given that they had provided Mr W and Mr N with plenty of time to 
provide them with the information that they had requested. 
I can see that HSBC have sent Mr W and Mr N yearly bank statements which would provide 
them with details of the interest that has been applied and an overall snapshot of what is 
owed. With this in mind, I am unable to see how a block on the account would change the 
fact that there is a contractual agreement between Mr W, Mr N and HSBC. HSBC provided 
Mr W and Mr N multiple opportunities to provide the safeguarding information. As the 
information was not given, the block was placed. If the information was provided sooner, the 
block would not have happened and therefore Mr W and Mr N would have been able to 
make payments. I do not consider that HSBC have acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
interest on the loan. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr W and Mr N have said about HSBC not sending 
written confirmation about the block being removed. HSBC have no record of this 
conversation taking place, they have explained that when Mr W and Mr N visited the branch, 
they were advised that the block would be removed as soon as the form is returned. HSBC 
have explained to us that sending a written confirmation about the removal of a block would 
not form part of their normal process. I do accept that they may have been an expectation on 
Mr W and Mr Ns part, but Im not persuaded that HSBC misled them in this respect. 
Furthermore, the content of the letters that were sent to Mr W and Mr N prior to the branch 
visit confirms that as soon as the form is received the block would be removed. It is for these 
reasons that I am unable to find any reason to believe that HSBC should have sent written 
confirmation in this instance. 
Overall, HSBC have acted in a fair and reasonable manner in relation to the circumstances 
of the complaint. I will not be asking them to do anything further in this instance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman