DRN-3492877
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined her claim for water 
damage under her home insurance policy.
Mrs S is represented in her complaint, but Ill only refer to her in my decision. 
What happened
Mrs S had home insurance for a number of years with Ageas. I understand that she 
temporarily moved out of the insured property in April 2019 and moved into a care home. 
However, for various reasons, Mrs Ss stay at the care home has become permanent. Mrs 
Ss policy at the time of the claim had started on 25 July 2020 and provided cover for 
buildings and contents.
In February 2021, a neighbour discovered that thered been a leak at Mrs Ss property. I 
understand that Mrs Ss representatives first reported the claim to Ageas on 17 February 
2021. 
Ageas call notes record that on 18 February 2021, the police contacted them to tell them 
about the damage to Mrs Ss property. The notes record that no one was currently living in 
the property. And that the police had said that there was significant damage. They said the 
ceiling had collapsed. But the full extent of the damage wasnt known. The notes also record 
that the cause of the damage was also not known. Ageas notes record that they advised 
that until they had an insured peril in force they couldnt act. 
On 18 February 2021, Mrs Ss representative told Ageas that the property had been 
unoccupied. Ageas said they hadnt been told this before. Ageas asked Mrs Ss 
representative to contact a contractor to establish the cause of the leak. They said theyd 
need to know the cause of the damage before they could consider the claim. Ageas also 
noted that there were policy exclusions on unoccupied properties and that they shouldve 
been notified that Mrs S had moved into the care home. They issued revised policy 
documents to Mrs S, which noted that there was an unoccupied endorsement on the 
policy. Mrs Ss representative offered to take pictures of the damage.
Ageas considered the damage but declined the claim. They said that as the property had 
been unoccupied for more than 60 days, there was no cover under the policy. Mrs Ss 
representative raised a complaint about this, including the following points:
- He asked Ageas to explain the reasons for their declination in writing 
- He felt that Ageas shouldve arranged for an assessor to visit the house to view the 
damage and to determine what repair work was needed. 
- He was unhappy that Ageas had needed him to prove he had Mrs Ss authority to 
talk to them about her claim, although this issued had been resolved.
- He was unhappy that he had to provide details about how long the house had been 
unoccupied, the cause of the damage and the date it happened. He didnt think it was 
fair that he needed to establish an insured peril as he lived far away from the insured 
property and wasnt present when the damage had occurred. 
Ageas issued their final response to the complaint on 26 April 2021. They didnt uphold it. 
They felt that their decision to decline had been correct. They said that it had taken some 
time to arrange for appropriate authorisation to be obtained from Mrs S, but that they could 
now talk to her representative about her claim. Ageas said that Mrs Ss representative had 
told them that the cause of the damage had now been identified as a leak from a pipe in the 
loft. They said that the care home had confirmed that Mrs S had been with them since 18 
April 2019. And that due to the length of time the property had been unoccupied, which was 
more than 60 days, there was no cover under the policy for the water damage. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this response, so referred her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She felt that Ageas had fairly 
declined the claim. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be very disappointing to Mrs S. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it was then 
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the 
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, escape of water, storm etc.  is 
covered. If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming for is caused by 
one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the insurer can rely one of 
the policy exclusions to defeat it. If the insurer wishes to rely on a policy exclusion it is its 
responsibility to prove it can be successfully applied to defeat the claim.
In this case, I understand that Mrs S has held insurance with Ageas for a number of years 
and has had two previous claims accepted in full. 
Mrs Ss position, through her representative, is that her claim shouldnt have been declined 
simply because she failed to tell Ageas that the insured property was unoccupied for more 
than 60 days. She feels that the circumstances of her move to, and extended stay in, the 
care home should be taken into account in her claim. She also feels that as shed continued 
to pay all her household bills, including her insurance premium, while in the care home, her 
insurance shouldve continued to provide cover. She says that her insurance premiums were 
renewed annually through direct debit, and that the renewal paperwork made it clear that 
she was still covered. Mrs S also considers that Ageas shouldve helped to ensure that the 
property was promptly repaired to avoid further damage. 
Ageas position is that there was no cover for the claim under the policy due to the period of 
time if had been unoccupied.
Ive carefully reviewed the policy booklet. On page 9 the booklet states:
You must tell [us] as soon as possible about any change which may affect this insurance 
policy, in particular: Change of address

 If your home will be unoccupied
And on page 12 of the booklet, Unoccupied is defined as: 
A home not lived in or not intended to be lived in for more than 60 days in a row.
The booklet goes on to state what a policyholder must agree to do for their insurance to 
continue if they leave a building unoccupied (Sections 5 Unoccupied buildings and 5A 
Special unoccupancy clause).  
Section 1  Buildings insurance on page 24 describes Water leakage as: 
Water leaking from or freezing in any fixed domestic water or drainage installation, heating 
installation, washing machine, dishwasher, water bed, fish tank, refrigerator or deep freeze 
cabinet.
And then goes on to state: What is not insured. This includes:
The damage when your home is unoccupied (for 60 days or more in a row) or unfurnished.
Further, page 26 of the booklet covers Moving home. It states:
If your original home is unoccupied (for 60 days or more in a row), you must do the following:
-Tell [us] that the buildings are unoccupied
-Turn off the gas and water supplies at the mains (except if you need to leave the 
central heating on to prevent the pipes freezing)
-Arrange for the inside of the buildings to be checked at least once a week
The booklet also states under Section 2  Contents, on page 34:
Please note - if you are leaving the main residence that you insure with [us] unoccupied as a 
result of going into a residential or care home, you will need to contact our customer services 
team as terms and conditions will apply.
I dont doubt that Mrs S didnt intentionally fail to tell Ageas that her property was now 
unoccupied. I can understand why, given her personal circumstances, she didnt realise she 
had to. However, the policy booklet is clear that she needed to notify Ageas of any changes 
affecting her cover. I consider that its reasonable for any insurer to ask their customers to 
inform them of any changes which affect the cover being offered. And to set specific 
conditions for cover to continue under certain circumstances.
As soon as Ageas were informed that Mrs Ss property was unoccupied, they issued 
updated policy documents which included the Unoccupancy endorsement. This said:
When your home is unoccupied for 60 days in a row or unfurnished, the following cover is 
excluded from all sections of the policy: Theft or attempted theft, escape of water, escape of 
oil, malicious damage, accidental damage to entertainment equipment, accidental breakage 
of mirrors and glass, accidental loss of oil or metered water, optional cover accidental 
damage extension, optional cover personal belongings cover, accidental breakage of glass 
& sanitary ware. In addition all valuables should be removed from the property whilst it is unoccupied. It is also a condition that you arrange for the building to be checked at least 
once a week while they are unoccupied.
Im satisfied this information was already available in the policy document, but consider that 
the endorsement makes it clearer to the policyholder about what is covered. However, it 
wouldnt be fair to hold Ageas responsible for not applying the endorsement to Mrs Ss policy 
at its inception, as they werent aware the property was unoccupied.
Ageas confirmed with the care home that Mrs S had been living with them for almost two 
years before the claim was made. I acknowledge that Mrs S continued to pay her insurance 
premiums on the property even after she moved to the care home. However, this doesnt 
mean that the policy terms and conditions cease to apply to any claim she might make. Mrs 
Ss property was unoccupied at the time of the claim. And the policys terms and conditions 
excluded cover for water leakage when a property was unoccupied for more than 60 days. 
This is a standard term in most insurance policies. I consider it was clearly explained in the 
policy booklet. And that Ageas fairly applied the exclusion to Mrs Ss claim. 
I understand that Mrs Ss representative is unhappy that he had to prove he had Mrs Ss 
authority to discuss her claim with them. And that he was asked to provide details so that the 
claim could be validated. Im sorry that this caused him inconvenience. But I cant fairly say 
that Ageas did anything wrong here. As I mentioned earlier, the onus is on the policyholder  
or their representative  to show that they have a valid claim under the policy. From what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that the information that Ageas requested was reasonable under the 
circumstances.
While I appreciate that this is not what Mrs S had been hoping to hear, Im not persuaded 
that Ageas did anything wrong when they declined to the claim for water damage. So I wont 
be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons explained above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman