DRN-3853145
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax paid him a lower cashback 
amount than he was expecting.
What happened
Mr A held a credit card account with Halifax which entitled him to a yearly cashback reward.
Mr A used his Halifax App to view his cashback entitlement and saw that he had built up a 
reward of £349. However, when his cashback was paid, he only received £250.
Mr A complained to Halifax. In response, Halifax said the cashback amount paid to Mr A was 
correct because the terms and conditions of his account capped the amount of cashback at 
£250. Halifax said it hadnt made an error and offered Mr A £25 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr A was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the terms and conditions of the account 
imposed a cap on the loyalty bonus and that the larger figure shown on the App didnt 
change the terms of the agreement.
Mr A remained unhappy. He said he wasnt aware of the cap. He said the App showed that 
he had built up a reward of £349 and he felt hed been misled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the credit agreement and the terms and conditions of the agreement. The 
agreement states that cashback is paid at the rate of 0.5% up to £999.99 and at the rate of 
1% up to £24,999.99. The terms and conditions state that the rebate is calculated monthly 
and paid on the anniversary of the account. They also state that the maximum rebate is 
£250 per year.
The terms and conditions were provided to Mr A when he opened the account. Im satisfied 
that the terms and conditions are clear that a cap of £250 applies to the rebate, and that Mr 
A was aware  or ought to have been aware  of this.
Mr A has said that the App showed that he was due a rebate of £349. I havent been 
provided with any evidence of this such as a screenshot, but I have no reason to doubt what 
Mr A says.
I appreciate that Mr A found the higher cashback amount shown on the App to be 
misleading. But this doesnt change the terms and conditions of the agreement. Halifax has 
acknowledged Mr As concerns about the amount shown on the App and has provided 
feedback to the relevant team.
I appreciate that Mr A feels that he has been misled. However, Im satisfied that the cap 
applies by virtue of the terms and conditions of the account and the amount shown on the 
App doesnt change this. For the reasons Ive explained above, Im unable to uphold the 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman