DRN-4311486
The complaint
Miss L complains that AWP P&C SA declined her travel insurance claim and about its 
service. My references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
Miss L has travel insurance through her bank account. AWP is the insurer. Miss Ls partner 
is also covered under the policy as he meets the definition of family under the policy terms. 
In October 2022 Miss L booked holiday accommodation in the UK for herself, her partner 
and two other people for 30 December 2022 to 3 January 2023. Miss L says she paid for the 
trip as a gift.
On 29 December 2022, a day before the trip, Miss Ls partner took a lateral flow test and 
tested positive for Covid-19. As her partner had to isolate for five days Miss L contacted the 
accommodation provider to ask for the holiday dates to be rescheduled but the provider 
wouldnt change the dates and provided a cancellation invoice. Miss L claimed on her 
insurance for cancellation of the trip.
AWP declined the claim on the basis that it wouldnt accept lateral flow tests results as proof 
of the claim because it couldnt know the date of the test. AWP said to accept a claim for 
Covid-19 cancellation it required a PCR test, a supervised lateral flow test result or a medical 
certificate from the GP.
Miss L complained to us. In summary she said:
At the time of the cancellation there was no government requirement for a PCR test 
or a supervised lateral flow test to be taken or need for GP medical certificate for 
Covid-19.
On 29 December 2022 shed spoken to AWP about making a claim and its 
representative didnt tell her that it wouldnt accept the lateral flow test as evidence to 
support her claim. If AWP had told her the specific supporting evidence it wanted she 
would have obtained that evidence.
Shes had a lot of stress and worry by AWP unfairly declining the claim and she 
wants it to pay the claim.
Our investigator said AWP unreasonably declined the claim. She recommended AWP pay 
the claim in line with the remaining policy terms plus interest and £150 compensation for 
Miss Ls distress and inconvenience it caused.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators recommendation so the complaint has been 
referred to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of making my decision we havent heard from AWP with a response to our 
investigators recommendation, despite her chasing for a response and telling AWP that the 
complaint has been referred to me for a decision. In all the circumstances Im satisfied that 
its reasonable for me to make a decision on the evidence I have.
The regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims fairly. And they mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim.
I think AWP unreasonably declined the claim. Ill explain why.
The policy under the cancellation or curtailment section says:
What is covered
We will pay you up to £5,000  for any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs (including excursions and other pre-paid charges) which you 
have paid or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel 
expenses, due to any of the following necessary and unavoidable events:
 Cancellation of the trip;  as a result of any of the following events occurring:
1. The death, bodily injury or illness of:
a. You;
b. Any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with;
c. A relative of you or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to 
travel with;
...
Note:
 For a, b, and c above, this will include being diagnosed with an epidemic or 
pandemic disease, such as COVID-19.
2. You or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with 
being held in quarantine by order or another requirement of a government or public 
authority, based on their suspicion that you or they, specifically, have been exposed 
to a contagious disease (including an epidemic or a pandemic disease such as 
COVID-19). This does not include any quarantine that applies generally or broadly to 
some or all of a population, vessel or geographical area, or that applies based on 
where you are travelling to, from or through.
So the policy covers cancellation of a trip if a person Miss L was traveling with was ill and 
diagnosed with Covid-19. Miss Ls partner was due to travel with her and was ill with Covid-
19. Under the NHS guidance at the time he needed to isolate so the trip was cancelled. But 
AWP declined the claim because it said it didnt accept a lateral flow test as evidence for 
Covid-19 as it couldnt tell the date of the test.
I understand AWPs point. And although the policy terms arent specific about what type of 
Covid-19 test Miss L had to provide to evidence her claim the policy does say that for a 
cancellation claim Miss L needs to provide :
a medical certificate from a doctor to confirm that you or your travelling companion 
are not fit to travel ...
However, I have to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Miss L didnt 
have a medical certificate from a doctor but given the time of year, 29 December, I think it probably would have been difficult for Miss Ls partner to get an appointment to see or speak 
to a GP about Covid-19 unless his symptoms were severe and theres no evidence of that. 
I think its more likely than not that Miss Ls partner would have been able to get a GP 
appointment at a later date, when he would have been better, so the GP certificate would 
just have said that Miss Ls partner told the GP about having Covid-19. I think that would be 
less strong evidence than the evidence Miss L has provided about her partners diagnosis. 
She sent AWP an email from NHS Covid-19 notification to her partner dated the 
29 December 2022 saying his lateral flow test was positive and he should stay at home and 
avoid contact with other people.
Miss L says AWPs representative didnt tell her she would need to send a PCR test or a 
supervised lateral flow test in support of the claim, which AWP hasnt disputed. I think that 
disadvantaged Miss L in making her claim as if AWP had told her she needed to provide 
either of those tests I think its probable she would have got that evidence.
In the circumstances Im satisfied that Miss L provided AWP with enough evidence that her 
partner was ill with Covid-19, the NHS guidance at the time was he should isolate due to the 
illness and they had to cancel the trip due to his illness. So I think an insured event occurred 
under paragraph 1 of the above policy terms. 
I also think the claim is covered on a fair and reasonable basis under paragraph 2 of the 
above policy terms. But I dont need to explain why as Ive already explained why I think the 
claim is covered under paragraph 1.
Miss Ls evidence is that she paid the full amount for the trip as a gift to her partner and two 
friends. Shes provided her credit statement showing she paid the balance for the holiday 
accommodation, which was the majority of the costs, and our investigator sent the statement 
to AWP. The emails from the accommodation provider confirming the booking and receipt of 
the initial payment were sent to Miss L so I think its more likely than not that she also paid 
the initial payment.
As Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the other people who were due to go on the trip 
contributed financially to the accommodation I think AWP should pay the full costs Miss L 
paid for the accommodation in line with the remaining policy terms and limits, plus interest.
Miss L has told us how AWPs decline of her claim caused her a lot of stress and worry. Our 
investigator recommended AWP should pay £150 compensation for Miss Ls trouble and 
upset it, which AWP hasnt objected to, and I think is a reasonable amount.
Putting things right
AWP must pay Miss Ls claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits, plus interest 
as Ive detailed below. It must also pay her £150 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience its caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to:
Pay Miss Ls claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits. Interest* must be 
added at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of settlement, and
Pay Miss L £150 compensation for her distress and inconvenience due to its unfair 
handling of her claim.*If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Miss L how much its taken off. It should also give Miss L a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman