DRN-4179029
Complaint
Mr K is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt refunded the money 
he lost to an investment scam.
Background
In January 2019, Mr K was approached on social media and invited to invest his money on a 
platform. The person who contacted him claimed to be a financial advisor who could assist 
him with managing investments in foreign exchange and cryptocurrencies. Unfortunately, 
that person wasnt a genuine financial advisor, but a fraudster.
In total, Mr K transferred £7,908.05 in a period stretching from January 2019 until 6 
November 2020. Mr K was told that the advisor could turn a £500 investment into £20,000 
within 8 weeks. However, he became suspicious when the advisor stopped responding to his 
messages on social media. He realised it was a scam when he wasnt able to withdraw the 
profits he believed had been earned on his investment.
He notified NatWest but it didnt agree to refund the money he lost. Mr K was unhappy with 
that and so he referred the complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who 
didnt uphold it. She thought that Mr K ought to have been more sceptical of the proposed 
investment. Hed received an unsolicited approach on social media, which would be atypical 
of a genuine investment firm. In addition, the returns that he was promised were so 
extraordinary that they were obviously too good to be true. 
Finally, she added that, while NatWest didnt appear to have displayed any warnings when 
Mr K made these payments, its only expected to do so where it identifies a fraud risk. The 
Investigator said that these payments werent particularly high and were in keeping with the 
way the account had been used historically. As a result, she didnt think the bank had done 
anything wrong in not displaying warnings. 
Mr Ks representatives responded on his behalf. They pointed out that he is financially 
inexperienced and so wouldnt have understood what constitutes a reasonable return. 
Because Mr Ks representatives disagreed with the Investigators view, the complaint has 
been passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Mr K is generally considered liable for any payment that hes 
authorised. Its common ground between the parties that these payments were duly 
authorised and so he is presumed liable at first instance. However, NatWest is a signatory to 
the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. Under the 
terms of that voluntary code, signatories should reimburse customers who fall victim to 
scams like this one in all but a limited number of circumstances.
NatWest doesnt have to reimburse its customer if it can show that one of the exceptions in 
that Code applies. In this instance, the relevant exception is where the Customer made the 
payment without a reasonable basis for believing that [] the person or business with whom 
they transacted was legitimate.
Ive considered the available evidence carefully and Im satisfied that Mr K didnt have a 
reasonable basis to believe that this investment was a genuine one. He received unsolicited 
contact on social media inviting him to participate in the investment. And while its common 
for legitimate investment companies to have an active social media presence, this would be 
an unusual way for a genuine company to promote itself.
I also agree with the Investigators conclusion that the returns Mr K was promised were 
simply too good to be believable. I accept what his representatives have said about his 
relative financial inexperience making it more difficult for him to identify whether a promised 
return is realistic or not. But in this case, Mr K was promised a return of 4,000% in 8 weeks  
an annual equivalent of 26,000%. These returns were so extraordinary that I dont think any 
great level of knowledge would be required to identify this as a red flag and to proceed with 
caution. 
Good industry practice also required that NatWest be on the lookout for account activity that 
was unusual or out of character that might indicate one of its customers was at risk of falling 
victim to fraud. On spotting such a risk, Id expect it to take reasonable steps to protect its 
customer. This might entail displaying a warning during the payment process or temporarily 
blocking a payment so it can discuss it with the customer.
We now know that Mr K was falling victim to an investment scam. But the question I must 
consider is whether that risk couldve been reasonably anticipated by NatWest at time. In 
this instance, Im not persuaded it couldve spotted the risk and so I dont find it wouldve had 
any reasonable basis for taking any action in response to any individual payment. The 
individual payments werent particularly large (the largest single payment was £500) and 
they were spaced out over a long period of time meaning that it wouldnt have been possible 
to identify any pattern to them. They were also generally in keeping with the way Mr K 
operated his account.
Im not saying any of this to downplay the fact that Mr K has fallen victim to a cynical scam 
and has lost a significant amount of money. But my role here is limited to considering the 
actions and inactions of the bank and, while I know my decision will be hugely disappointing 
to him, Im not persuaded NatWest did anything wrong here.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman