DRN-3186123
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a packaged bank account 
called a Silver account. 
Lloyds charged Mrs S a monthly fee for the Silver account and provided several potential 
benefits in return. She thinks it should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Mrs S has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. I understand that she opened one of its 
fee-free accounts in April 2009 and that Lloyds then sold her the Silver account in June 
2011. The Silver account replaced her fee-free account and she kept it until at least 2021, 
although I dont think she still has it. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint and thought that Lloyds had 
treated Mrs S fairly. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Lloyds should give Mrs S any money back. She didnt 
agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
So, it has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Mrs Ss case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mrs S and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
Both Lloyds and Mrs S have told us that it advised her to buy the Silver account during a 
meeting at one of its branches. In an advised sale like this, I would have expected Lloyds to 
tell Mrs S clearly and fairly about the benefits and costs of the Silver account and to check 
that she had a potential need for at least some of its benefits. It should also have given her a 
choice about whether to buy the Silver account or to keep her fee-free account. 
In June 2011, the three main benefits of the Silver account were travel insurance, use of a 
car breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. Mrs S has told us that Lloyds didnt 
tell her about these benefits and that she only bought the Silver account because it told her 
that buying it was the only way to get an overdraft. Shes told us that she found out during 
early 2021 that she didnt need the Silver account to have an overdraft. Shes said she 
wouldnt have bought it if she had known this all along. 
Firstly, I would like to confirm that Mrs S is correct in her current belief that buying the Silver 
account was very unlikely to have made any difference to Lloyds willingness (or otherwise) 
to allow her an overdraft. When making decisions about whether to arrange overdrafts, 
banks, including Lloyds, dont usually consider the type of current account customers hold to 
be significant factors. Lloyds has denied it misled Mrs S about this. So, the critical point of 
this part of Mrs Ss complaint is whether Lloyds misinformed her or not.
Obviously, I wasnt present at the meeting and I cant tell for sure what Lloyds said, or didnt 
say, to Mrs S at the time. However, Lloyds records show that she didnt apply for an 
overdraft until 2016, several years after it sold her the Silver account. So, it seems unlikely to 
me that having an overdraft was particularly important for Mrs S in 2011 and I doubt that 
Lloyds misled her in the way she has described. There doesnt seem to have been any 
motive for it to have deceived her in this way. I dont think it did.
I also think its highly likely that Lloyds told Mrs S about the benefits of the Silver account. 
After all, it was trying to sell the account to her and it was in its own interests to tell her what 
she could gain by having it. Furthermore, Lloyds has sent us a copy of a form which provides 
strong supporting evidence that it did things fairly. 
Mrs S has signed the form and it seems to have been completed either during the meeting 
or very shortly afterwards. It gave very brief details about the three main benefits of the 
account and indicated that there had been some discussion about them to check if Mrs S 
had a potential need for them. It also gave a little more background to the travel insurance 
policy and highlighted that it would not usually cover claims resulting from medical conditions 
that customers already had before travelling. Mrs S seems to have ticked the form to show 
she understood this. The form also confirmed that Lloyds gave Mrs S a Welcome Pack 
about the Silver account. The pack contained a lot more information about the benefits. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied that Lloyds checked that Mrs S had a potential need 
for the Silver account before advising her to buy it and told her about the benefits she could 
receive. 
The form also outlined the monthly fees for the Silver account and explained when Lloyds 
would take them from Mrs Ss account each month. So, Im satisfied that Lloyds told Mrs S 
how much the Silver account would cost. And I havent seen anything to make me think it 
told her she couldnt keep her fee-free account; so, I think its highly likely that Lloyds 
allowed her a choice. 
In correspondence, both with us and with Mrs S, Lloyds has mentioned that it has records to 
show that in 2012 Mrs S called out the car breakdown service that came with the Silver 
account. It has also said that she registered two mobile phones for the insurance cover. It 
has stated that this active use of the benefits of the Silver account provides further evidence 
that it told Mrs S about them. Mrs S has denied using the car breakdown service and has 
said she only registered for mobile banking, not mobile phone insurance. 
I fully accept that Mrs S is doing her best to remember what happened, but I think Lloyds 
records are probably reliable and its likely that she did call out the breakdown service and 
register for mobile phone insurance. However, even if she didnt, as Im satisfied that Lloyds 
told her about the Silver accounts costs and benefits, didnt mislead her, provided 
reasonable advice and allowed her a choice, I dont think it mis-sold the Silver account to 
her.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Ss complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman