DRN-1833908
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the decline and handling of her critical illness claim by Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Ltd (Aviva). She also complains about the terms Aviva offered her when she 
applied for her policy and the fact Aviva will not change these terms.
What happened
In January 2017 Mrs W purchased a life and critical illness policy with Aviva on a decreasing 
term basis to cover her mortgage.
Mrs W was later diagnosed with burn out and in 2019 she put in a critical illness claim with 
Aviva. But the claim was declined on the basis it was not one of the specified illnesses 
covered by her policy. 
When making her claim, Mrs W realised shed been offered a reduced level of cover and 
been charged higher premiums throughout the policy because of Avivas understanding of 
her previous medical history. In particular Mrs W was refused total permanent disability 
(TPD) and waiver of premium cover. A specific exclusion was also applied for any critical 
illness claim resulting from psychosis or bipolar effective disorder, or any condition arising 
from or attributable to these conditions or their treatment. But Mrs W didnt think Avivas 
understanding of her medical history was correct.
Mrs W also felt Aviva then gave her conflicting information when handling her claim. Mrs W 
said Aviva kept bringing up her previous history of depression and made her obtain further 
information about her medication, but then later said this didnt make a difference. Mrs W 
also said that in a phone call between Aviva and her financial advisor in December 2019, 
Aviva said it would consider her burn out claim but then changed its mind. 
Mrs W wasnt happy, so she complained to Aviva. Aviva didnt uphold her complaint. It said 
the terms it could offer were made clear to Mrs W at the outset and were based on 
disclosures made at application. Aviva also said it only covers critical illnesses defined in the 
policy conditions and burn out was not a specified illness.
Mrs W then brought her complaint to our service. Mrs W wanted full cover to be provided, 
her premiums to be recalculated with no additional rating and for Aviva to provide 
compensation for the stress caused. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and found Aviva acted reasonably. Mrs W didnt 
agree so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying Im sorry to hear about Mrs Ws ongoing health issues. Mrs W has 
sent us a lot of evidence in relation to her complaint. And I want to assure her that I have 
taken into account everything shes told us. But I wont be commenting on every point made. 
Instead Ill be focusing on the issues I think are key.
Mrs Ws critical illness claim
It seems to me Mrs Ws main complaint is the decline of her critical illness claim for burn out 
due to chronic pain. And whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to her, I dont 
think Aviva has done anything wrong in declining this claim.
Mrs Ws policy doesnt cover all critical illnesses. As per the terms and conditions sent to her 
when she took out the policy, she is covered for a number of specific illnesses. And burn out 
isnt included on this list. I do appreciate that burn out is a serious condition that is 
recognised by the world health organisation. But Aviva isnt questioning if Mrs W is critically 
ill. It declined Mrs Ws claim because she hasnt fallen ill with one of the conditions it agreed 
to cover under the terms and conditions. And I think this is reasonable. 
 
Terms Aviva offered
However, the second part of Mrs Ws complaint is that Aviva refused her application for 
broader cover in 2017, applying an exclusion and denying TPD cover, based on an 
inaccurate understanding of her medical history. And had full cover been granted, Mrs W 
may have been able to claim under this part of her policy. Mrs W has also been charged 
higher premiums, a rating of +50 was applied to her life cover, based on this. And Mrs W 
doesnt think any of this is fair.
 
As an aside, I have seen an email where Mrs W thinks she was excluded for other cover 
including upgraded childrens benefit and global treatment. Id like to clarify that having 
viewed her application, it would appear this cover wasnt applied for. So, the only cover 
Mrs W was denied as a result of her medical history was TPD, waiver of premium and any 
critical illness claim resulting from psychosis or bipolar effective disorder, or any condition 
arising from or attributable to these conditions or their treatment.
Mrs W has raised two key concerns about Avivas understanding of her medical history:
1. That Aviva based its decision on a particular medication she was taking. And whilst 
this was an anti-psychotic drug, it was prescribed for facial ticks and did not indicate 
psychosis or other mental health issues.
2. That the depression shed experienced previously was an episode where her mood 
was disturbed due to medication. Mrs W felt depression was a misdiagnosis and that 
it wasnt fair to apply exclusions and deny cover on this basis. 
Aviva has confirmed to both Mrs W and our service that its decision was not made on the 
basis of the medication Mrs W was taking. Aviva has said this was linked to Mrs Ws history 
of depression and motor tics. 
Ive reviewed the relevant underwriting criteria Aviva has sent us. And having done so, Im 
satisfied that the exclusions applied in 2017 were fair. Id like to reassure Mrs W that this 
decision was not based on an inaccurate understanding of her medication. So, I think Aviva 
acted reasonably in the terms offered in 2017.
 
But when making her claim in 2019, Mrs W told Aviva shed actually been misdiagnosed with 
depression. So, Aviva told her it would review any evidence she could provide about this to 
see if it would have offered cover on different terms. And this is what Id expect Aviva to do if 
a customer suggested it had incorrect information.In response Mrs W sent Aviva a copy of a text message she received from her GP which 
stated: we are unable to write a letter which states misdiagnosis. It may be worth getting 
Aviva to contact us directly if they need further information.
But Aviva didnt then write to the GP requesting further information. And Mrs W felt it should. 
Aviva told us it didnt feel this was necessary as the medical information it had from the GP 
indicated she experienced relapsing, recurrent anxiety with depression for over ten years. 
Overall, I think Avivas approach here is fair  Ill explain why.
 
Mrs W felt the information Aviva had was wrong. And if she wanted to amend this, I think its 
reasonable for Aviva to ask her to provide it with evidence to the contrary. But Mrs W hasnt 
been able to provide this. I appreciate that Mrs W has attempted to get proof by asking her 
GP for a letter, but her GP is not willing to provide this. And whilst I recognise this is 
frustrating for Mrs W, I dont think this makes Avivas request for this information 
unreasonable. 
 
Im aware the text Mrs W received does say Aviva can contact the GP for further information. 
But the only thing that would change Avivas decision is evidence of a misdiagnosis. And this 
text doesnt suggest the GP is willing to say Mrs W was misdiagnosed. The text seems to 
indicate the opposite  that the GP is unable to do this. And given this, I think Avivas 
decision not to ask for further information is fair.
I also think Aviva has acted reasonably in clearly outlining the reasons behind its decision in 
a letter to Mrs Ws GP. This means Mrs W and her GP have the necessary information to 
pinpoint any inaccurate information and provide evidence to the contrary. But I wouldnt 
expect Aviva to do anything further here  it has made a decision based on the available 
medical information. And for all of the reasons outlined above, I think this is reasonable.
Handling of the claim
Finally, Mrs W has repeatedly raised concerns about the way Aviva has handled her claim. 
She felt Aviva has asked for evidence which it then said was irrelevant and has given 
conflicting information. But having listened to various calls and having reviewed the emails 
between Mrs W and Aviva, I dont think Aviva misled her.
Its clear Mrs W was, at various points, confused about her level of cover, and about why 
Aviva was discussing her history of depression. And I agree that this history isnt relevant to 
the decline of her critical illness claim (as burnout was never a condition that would have 
been covered). But as outlined above, when speaking with Aviva, Mrs W suggested she was 
wrongly diagnosed with depression. And Aviva explained that it could look into this if Mrs W 
provided evidence to support this. Aviva said Mrs W might have been able to claim for TPD 
cover due to burnout, had exclusions not been applied at the point of application. 
So essentially, Aviva was checking that Mrs W had received the cover she should have 
done. This is something I would expect Aviva to do and so I think it acted reasonably in 
telling Mrs W this.
Im aware Mrs W was particularly concerned about an email she was sent in September that 
said Aviva would consider more medical evidence in relation to her claim. Mrs W said this 
email suggested Aviva would reconsider her claim if she could prove a particular medication 
was not prescribed for depression. She then provided evidence to Aviva about this. 
But Aviva later told her the medication she declared wasnt relevant to the exclusions it 
applied to her policy. I agree with Mrs W that Aviva should not have asked for further 
information about her medication if it wasnt needed. But having reviewed the email, I dont 
think Aviva asked Mrs W to provide this. The email said: From our records, we can see the exclusions and rating were added to the plan because of depression, rather than the 
medication you were using to help with this. I appreciate this line suggests Aviva thought the 
medication was for depression, which Mrs W says is not the case. But I think the email is 
clear in explaining that the exclusions were not linked to the medication she was taking. So, I 
dont think Aviva suggested it would review her claim if it received further information about 
her medication. And so, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong here.
Mrs W has also said that Aviva told her financial advisor it would consider her critical illness 
claim despite the illness not being included. Aviva has told us it has no record of this call. 
And whilst our service has asked Mrs W for evidence of this call, for example an email from 
her financial advisor outlining what was discussed, this hasnt been provided. I think its very 
unlikely an insurer would say it would cover an illness not defined within the policy terms. 
So, without any evidence to support what Mrs W is telling me here, on balance, I think its 
unlikely Aviva said this. 
Overall, based on the information available to me, I think Avivas communication was clear. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs W was given conflicting information and I have listened 
to several calls where Aviva took the time to try to explain its decision and address Mrs Ws 
questions.
As an aside, Im aware Mrs W also has concerns over how Aviva dealt with a subject access 
request. However, this is something that is more appropriately dealt with by the Information 
Commissioners Office. So, if Mrs W has concerns about this, she should raise them with the 
ICO.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman