DRN-3267689
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy about the service she received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
during a branch visit.
What happened
Miss D visited a NatWest branch in December 2020 with the intention of transferring a 
significant amount of money to another account she had opened elsewhere. In summary, 
Miss D says:
She had to queue outside the branch and, when in the branch, she had to wait 45 
minutes to be seen by a member of staff. 
The staff member tried to stop her from making the transfer by asking her intrusive 
questions which caused her worry that her transferred funds may get lost and, by 
trying to get her to transfer her money to another account with it.
She was stopped from making the full transfer on the day - without an explanation as 
to why, which caused further inconvenience as the remaining funds had to be 
transferred separately. 
The branch manager spoke to her when other customers could overhear and then 
refused to allow her to set up a formal complaint in branch.
NatWest upheld Miss Ds complaint  it acknowledged that the service she received could 
have been better, and it paid Miss D £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused and refunded the £23 transfer fee. Miss D didnt think this went far enough and 
referred her complaint to this service.
One of investigators looked into Miss Ds complaint but  overall, she thought the 
compensation paid by NatWest was fair. Miss D disagreed. A second investigator looked at 
the complaint. But he also thought the compensation was fair and he didnt recommend that 
NatWest had to make an increased payment.
Miss D asked for a final decision and so the complaint has been passed to me. 
Miss D has raised concerns about how our investigators handled her complaint. This matter 
will be address by my colleague under separate correspondence.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as set out in my correspondence with Miss D prior to issuing this decision, Miss D 
has said she doesnt want this service to look into anything that happened prior to her 
branch visit. What happened leading up to the branch visit was the subject of another 
complaint Miss D raised with NatWest on which a separate Final Response letter was 
issued. Miss D has confirmed this initial complaint is not a complaint that has been referred 
to this service. So, I will not comment on that complaint.
Miss D has made a number of detailed points about the events in branch on the day of her 
visit - which I have only summarised above. But Id like to reassure her that I have read and 
considered her correspondence in full. 
And I hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar detail here will not be taken as a 
discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me 
to respond to every point made, but to consider the circumstances as a whole. 
I think Miss Ds complaint about the branch visit falls into three parts which I will address 
separately. 
Waiting times
When Miss D visited the branch in December 2020, the UK was in lockdown due to the     
on-going pandemic. Miss D has raised concerns about having to queue outside the branch 
and the waiting time in branch to speak to a member of staff. 
But I think its reasonable to say all businesses were operating in highly unusual conditions 
at the time of Miss Ds visit to the branch. I dont doubt Miss D experienced a long wait and I 
acknowledge queuing outside a branch at that time of year would be frustrating and 
uncomfortable. But I think queues and waiting times described by Miss D reflects the 
guidance that had been introduced by the government and reinforced by the banking 
regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to keep staff and customers safe. And 
many businesses were experiencing staff shortages due to the requirement to isolate. 
That said, given Miss Ds transaction involved a significant sum of money, I think it was 
necessary for her to visit a branch. But given the wider circumstances, I dont think wait 
times were entirely unexpected. 
I can see that Miss D has also raised concerns that the branch manager spoke to her about 
her transaction in front of other customers. I think its important to note that staff were limiting 
the number of customers in branch and I think its most likely that private meeting rooms 
werent available to customers during the pandemic. 
Overall, I think the waiting time Miss D experienced and the lack of privacy she had reflect 
the challenging environment NatWest was operating under rather than errors or poor 
service.
   
Transfer request
I understand why Miss D thought requesting a transfer of funds would be straight forward, 
after all she was transferring her own money to another account in her name. But branch 
staff do have a duty of care to protect their customers money. And I dont think its 
unreasonable for staff to establish the nature of the transaction being undertaken  
particularly, given the amount here involved a six-figure sum. 
I understand Miss D found this intrusive, but I think the branch staff were genuinely trying to 
establish the nature of the transaction to guard against potential scams as opposed to 
deliberately trying to stop her completing the transaction. And I think the questions asked would be raised with any customer who wanted to undertake a similar transaction. So, I dont 
think NatWest did anything wrong when it asked questions about Miss Ds transfer request.
I can see that there was an issue with Miss D not being able to make the full amount of the 
transfer on the day and this led to some confusion and inconvenience. From what Ive seen, 
it seems that this was a result of the events that happened prior to Miss Ds branch visit 
(which prompted the first complaint made to NatWest and which Miss D has asked me not to 
consider). But the funds were in Miss Ds account, they just werent available to transfer on 
that day. In any event, Miss D was able to transfer the remaining funds soon afterwards. But 
I do agree that NatWest staff could have explained things more clearly to Miss D. Ill refer to 
this again below.  
Customer service
NatWest has accepted that the service Miss D received wasnt to the standard she was 
entitled to. It has paid compensation of £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused and refunded the £23 transfer fee. So, my role here is to decide if the compensation 
offered is fair. My role is not to punish NatWest or tell it to discipline staff.  
 
I appreciate Miss D feels the compensation already offered falls short of an acceptable 
amount. And she explained that one reason for seeking a higher amount of compensation is 
because her mother had travelled with her that day as she had business to attend to near 
the branch. And because Miss D was delayed at NatWest, her mother was also 
inconvenienced.
I dont underestimate how frustrating it was for Miss Ds mother to be kept waiting, but as our 
investigator explained we can only award compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to an eligible complainant and   in these circumstances, the eligible complainant is 
Miss D as she is the account holder. I also appreciate that Miss D values her time and I can 
see why she thought transferring her own money to another account in her name would be 
straight forward and quick. 
But when looking at awards for distress and inconvenience we look at the overall impact a 
business mistake had  rather than awarding compensation based on units of time or at a 
complainants hourly rate. I see no reason to depart from that approach in this case. 
On our website, weve set out our approach to distress and inconvenience awards. Miss D 
can review this information here:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience
Ive considered all of the points Miss D has raised about the service she received in branch  
including: the inconvenience she incurred in having to finalise the full transfer of funds on a 
different day, being worried about keeping her mother waiting, and having to raise a 
complaint through another channel. And I agree that things should have been handled better 
overall. I also accept the reasons why the staff had to ask so many questions could have 
been explained in more detail and the reason why all her funds couldnt be transferred that 
day should have been made clear. And I think Miss D should have been allowed to raise her 
complaint in branch. 
But looking at this overall, I think the £200 compensation already paid by NatWest and the 
refund of the transfer fee is fair and reasonable and in line with what this service would 
generally award in similar circumstances. I know Miss D would like a personal apology from the branch manager. But NatWest has extended its apologies to her in its final response 
letter and I think that is enough. 
So, while I understand that Miss D will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached, I 
wont be asking NatWest to do anything further in respect of this complaint.
Ive noted that Miss D thinks NatWest did something wrong when it sent us a copy of the 
final response letter it issued relating to events before her branch visit. Complaint handling 
isnt a regulated activity, so not something wed generally comment on. But I think it would 
be helpful to explain that its not unusual for a business to provide this service with 
background information which it feels had an impact on - or are linked to, the events in the 
complaint referred to us.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that,                        
National Westminster Bank Plc has already paid fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused Miss D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman