DRN-3302958
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) gave incorrect information in 
relation to a credit voucher they received from their flight provider. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have a travel policy alongside their current account. UKI is the underwriter of 
the policy. 
On 1 October 2019, Mr and Mrs F booked their trip. Their intended travel dates were from 
9 July 2020 to 28 July 2020.  
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO)  formerly 
known as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)  advised against all but essential 
international travel. The UK subsequently went in national lockdown.
Mr F contacted UKI on 5 June 2020 to discuss the options available to them in regard to 
their forthcoming trip. Theyd been offered either a refund or a credit voucher by their flight 
provider as the flights has been cancelled. Mr F wanted to confirm what terms would apply 
for a future booking should he decide to take the option of the credit voucher. The advisor he 
spoke to said the same terms would apply. 
On 26 October 2020, UKI sent an email to policyholders informing them of changes made to 
their policy. And, on 12 January 2021, Mr and Mrs F received their extension renewal which 
said that claims for Covid-19 and pandemics would not be covered on bookings made on or 
after 1 January 2021. 
Mr F contacted UKI this as he was led to believe the original terms of his policy would apply 
and that was why he decided to take the option of the credit voucher from his flight provider. 
He didnt get a clear answer but eventually, he was told any trip he booked in the future 
using the voucher would have the updated terms applied. 
Mr and Mrs F made a complaint to UKI. They said they were given incorrect information in 
June 2020 and theyd like UKI to stand by the original policy terms and conditions. 
UKI responded to their complaint. It agreed that incorrect information had been given to Mr 
and Mrs F and, in recognition of this, it made a payment of £75 compensation for the error in 
its communication. UKI said it, however, wouldnt consider future claims using the previous 
policy terms and conditions. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs F brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. She thought while UKI has made an error in 
providing incorrect information, it accepted this and offered £75 compensation. Our 
investigator thought this was fair and reasonable. She didnt think UKI should, as a result of 
its error, now accept any future claims to be considered under the original policy terms and 
conditions as that wasnt fair. 
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The key issue in dispute is the call made by Mr F to UKI in June 2020. As a result of that 
call, Mr and Mrs F made the decision to keep their credit voucher from their flight provider 
and make a future booking instead of seeking a refund. They say any future claims have 
been impacted because of the information they were given. And theyd like UKI to honour 
potential future claims using the original policy terms and conditions because of that error. 
Call on 5 June 2020
The call was made in June 2020. I appreciate the information Mr F received wasnt correct. 
At the time, neither UKI nor Mr F would have been aware of the policy changes introduced to 
its policyholders in October 2020 for Covid-19 and which came into effect on 
1 January 2021. 
With that in mind, Ive considered what Mr F should have been told. UKI should have 
explained that the policy terms at the time of the new booking would be the ones that would 
apply in the event a claim is made. As Mr and Mrs F received a credit from their flight 
provider, this would usually be considered a refund. Therefore, any new and future bookings 
would be considered against the relevant policy terms at the time  regardless of whether 
they booked this using a credit voucher or the cash refund. I note though this isnt exactly 
what Mr F was told. UKI have looked at this complaint point and agreed the advisor should 
have been clearer in explaining this to Mr F. UKI therefore apologised and paid 
Mr and Mrs F £75 in recognition of this. Having reviewed what happened, Im satisfied that 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Should UKI honour the original policy terms and conditions?
I turn to Mr and Mrs Fs comments that because of UKIs error in communication, it should 
now agree to honour any future claims against the original policy terms and conditions. Im 
not persuaded UKI ought to do this. 
I say this because UKI has accepted the communication wasnt clear. In this aspect, its put 
this right by providing feedback and compensating Mr and Mrs F. As Ive said above, I think 
this is fair and reasonable. 
With regards to honouring future claims, Id like to point out that the scenario is one that is 
currently hypothetical as they havent made a claim. Mr and Mrs F decided to take their 
option of the credit voucher and their intention was to rebook their flights. Had they decided 
instead to take the option of a cash refund and then made any future bookings, they would 
still be subject to the policy terms and conditions that were relevant at the time of any new 
booking. And, while I accept that we dont know what Mr and Mrs F would have done had they received a cash refund, we do know that had they made any future booking, they would 
have been subject to the policy terms and conditions that applied at the time of the booking. I 
agree that the advice they received wasnt helpful, but I think Mr and Mrs F have been 
compensated for this. But that doesnt mean that UKI ought to now agree to apply the 
original policy terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs F said in their contact with UKI they were intending to rebook their flights in 
September 2020. And of course at the time this was all subject to changes in FCO travel 
advice, but by this time, Covid-19 was a known event and as a result, in October 2020, UKI 
informed its policyholders of changes that were due to take place and which then came into 
effect from 1 January 2021. Insurance is designed to cover certain risks but as Covid-19 had 
become a known event, the decision UKI took not to provide cover for the risk is something 
we cant comment on as this is a commercial decision.  
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Fs comments that UKIs website said the original terms of the 
policy would apply. I havent seen evidence to suggest this is what happened. I can see UKI 
said any trip booked after 18 March 2020 wouldnt provide cover for Covid-19 related claims 
as, by this time, this was a known event. Im not persuaded therefore that this was what was 
published on their website or an approach it had taken. 
Conclusion 
Overall, taking everything into account, UKI has accepted, apologised and paid 
compensation to Mr and Mrs F for the lack of clear communication. Im satisfied this is fair 
and reasonable. 
Im not persuaded however that because of this error, UKI ought to now apply the original 
policy terms and conditions as Ive not seen anything to suggest this would be fair or 
reasonable. I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask UKI 
to do this. It follows that I dont require UKI to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman