DRN-1803865
The complaint
Mr W complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied with finance from Close 
Brothers Limited.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr W was supplied with a used car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers. The car was around ten years old and had travelled 123,000 
miles.
On 30 March 2019, Mr W collected the car and says within week he started to experience 
problems with the engine cutting out and smoke coming from the exhaust. He returned the 
car to the dealership who claimed to have fixed the issues, but Mr W continued to 
experience the same problems. He returned the car again but was dissatisfied with the 
dealerships response that the car was fine.
On 07 May 2019, Mr W paid for an independent inspection which showed the car to have 
several faults. Mr W says he wasnt making any progress with the dealership and so he 
contacted Close Brothers. It told Mr W to return it to the dealership.
Close Brothers then instructed an independent report to be completed by Automotive 
Consulting Engineers Ltd (ACE).
The ACE report highlighted several faults with the car, due to the poor condition of the car a 
road test was declined, and the engine was shut down as not to cause any further or 
consequential damage.
The ACE report provided the opinion that:
Taking into consideration the time and mileage elapsed since the point of finance inception,
on the balance of probability, all the faults noted would have been present or developing at
that time and previous repairs / modifications have clearly been unsuccessful.
The vehicle would not pass a UK MOT test in its present condition and as such is deemed
un-roadworthy.
Mr W told Close Brother he wanted to reject the car and end the agreement. He asked for a 
return of his deposit and a refund for the cost of the independent report he had paid for.
Close Brothers says it had the car repaired but Mr W refused to collect it and
stopped making his monthly payments. Close Brothers treated the car as abandoned, 
collected the car and sold it at auction on December 2019.  It said as gesture of goodwill it 
wiped Mr Ws liability for the shortfall on the finance agreement following the sale of the car.
Mr W was very unhappy with this response and this was further compounded after he 
received a parking ticket whilst the car was not in his possession and so he brought his 
complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr W. He didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied and felt Close Brothers needed to do more to put things right for Mr W. He 
found Mr W should have had the right to reject the car within the first thirty days as he
notified the dealership of a genuine issue and the inspection report instructed by Close 
Brothers confirmed the faults would have been present or developing at the point of sale.
He said Close Brothers should treat Mr Ws complaint as if the vehicle had
been rejected within the first thirty days by:
Returning the deposit and all payments made, plus 8% simple interest.
Pay Mr W for the cost of the independent report he paid for in order to convince 
the dealership that the faults remained present.
Reimburse Mr W for the cost of the ticket if the council insist on fining him for it.
Mr W accepted the investigators view but Close Brother did not.
It said it was unreasonable to retrospectively apply the right to reject the car when the 
customer had already approved repair. It asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information from both parties afresh. Having done so, Im in agreement 
with the investigators view. Ill explain why.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the conditional sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service can consider complaints relating to it. 
Close Brothers is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory. 
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory considering any description of the 
goods, price and all other relevant circumstances such as, amongst other things, the age 
and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
It is not disputed by either party that there were issues with the car and the findings of 
independent reports commissioned by both parties confirm this.
Summarised, the CRA gives the consumer two options to reject goods which dont conform 
to contract when supplied. The short term right to reject usually has to be exercised within 30 
days of supply. Otherwise the trader / supplier has one opportunity to repair the goods so 
that are restored to a condition where they do conform to contract. If the repairs fail, or take 
an unreasonable time to complete, the consumer can then exercise the final right to reject 
the goods. This is what Mr W has tried to do.I am satisfied that Mr W notified the dealership within the first 30 days of owning the car
that there were issues and that the dealership attempted to fix these issues initially at least
unsuccessfully.
The ACE report deemed the car to be unroadworthy at its inspection and as such would not 
road test the vehicle. Mr Ws own independent report also detailed several faults. So, from 
what Ive seen, Im persuaded there is enough evidence to suggest the car was not of a 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. On that basis Im satisfied Mr W should have the right 
to reject the vehicle. 
In terms of redress I understand the car has already been sold at auction by Close Brothers. 
My starting point would be to put Mr W back in the position he wouldve been in had he not 
taken out the agreement. I have also considered Mr W paid for his own independent report 
and received a parking fine when the car wasnt in his possession. Although Close Brothers 
have written off the shortfall on the finance agreement, Im persuaded it should do more to 
settle this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and I direct Close Brother Limited to:
Return the deposit and all payments made, plus 8% simple interest.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file
Refund Mr W for the cost of the independent report 
Reimburse Mr W for the cost of the parking ticket if he is unsuccessful in his 
appeal against it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman