DRN-4345306
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only mortgage that Mrs and Mr G hold with Skipton 
Building Society. Theyre unhappy that Skipton wouldnt allow them access to a lower 
interest rate on the mortgage without first holding a telephone appointment to review their 
wider circumstances. 
Mrs and Mr G didnt think that was necessary, and believe they should have been provided 
with a new rate when they asked for it. Its a joint mortgage Mrs G has recently joined in the 
complaint, but before that, all our interaction about the case has been with Mr G alone.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr G and Skipton. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr G being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
According to the documentation Skipton has sent us, Mrs and Mr Gs mortgage started in 
2007, initially with a different lender, which Ill call A. The offer shows that the mortgage was 
taken out on the advice and recommendation of a third party intermediary, a broker firm Ill 
refer to as G. The offer also records that the mortgage was taken on an interest-only basis, 
on an initial fixed rate until the end of 2009, at which point it would revert to As standard 
variable rate (SVR). The mortgage was transferred to Skipton in June 2021.
In September 2021, Mrs and Mr G referred a complaint to us over Skipton saying the 
mortgage was in arrears; something they disputed. The case was considered by one of our 
investigators, who wasnt persuaded the complaint should be upheld. That was in April 2022, 
and whilst Mrs and Mr G were given the option of having the complaint reviewed by an 
ombudsman if they wanted, they didnt take us up on that. That complaint was closed in 
May 2022.
We received a new complaint  the one Im looking at here  initially just from Mr G in 
October 2022. He had approached Skipton about securing a new interest rate product for 
the mortgage. Skipton had insisted on having an advised telephone appointment with them 
before it would agree to a provide a new rate. In its final response to the complaint, Skipton 
said it was a regulatory requirement that it have an advised conversation regarding 
Mrs and Mr Gs strategy for repaying the capital, and once that had happened, it could have 
a non-advised conversation about a new rate
On bringing this complaint to us, Mr G also expressed his unhappiness that Skipton was 
continuing to pursue him and Mrs G about the arrears, which they still disputed. Our 
investigator explained that she would not be revisiting the validity or otherwise of the arrears, 
because wed already done so in the previous complaint, and Mrs and Mr G hadnt asked for 
that case to be reviewed.
On the basis that wed previously found the arrears to be legitimate, the investigator 
concluded it was reasonable for Skipton to want to speak to Mrs and Mr G, not just about the 
arrears but also their repayment strategy for the capital, and a possible new rate. She noted 
that an attempt to have such a conversation in September 2022 had stalled, but made the 
point that it was for Mrs and Mr G to approach Skipton again. Mr G asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Whilst the case awaiting allocation to an ombudsman, a telephone appointment was held in 
April 2023. Subsequent to this, Skipton agreed to provide Mrs and Mr G with a new interest 
rate product. 
When the case came to me, I instructed the investigator to arrange for Mrs G to join the 
complaint. If theres more than one eligible complainant, but only one has contacted us, well 
investigate a complaint at the initial stage, as we did here. But if a complaint requires a final 
decision from an ombudsman, we will then require all eligible complainants to join the 
complaint. 
Thats because a final decision from an ombudsman is binding on all parties if the 
complainant(s) accept(s) it, and is potentially enforceable in court. Its therefore essential 
that we know that all eligible complainants are acting in unison towards a common purpose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
One of the provisions in our rules is that, generally speaking, we dont look into the same 
complaint twice. Weve already looked into the complaint Mrs and Mr G raised about the 
validity or otherwise of the arrears Skipton said existed on their mortgage, and didnt find in 
their favour. 
They were given the opportunity to have that complaint determined by an ombudsman and 
chose not to pursue it. Accordingly, that issue will not form part of my final decision. Any 
reference I make to the arrears will be for context only, and will be predicated on the 
assumption that they were legitimate.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point on this complaint that no borrower is entitled to a lower rate; lenders have 
to consider context and individual circumstances in all cases, along with the regulatory 
framework in place at the relevant time. They also each have their individual lending criteria 
and appetite for risk. Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to say what those 
criteria should be, or to second-guess lenders judgement on risk.They key thing to remember here is that Skipton didnt refuse to provide Mrs and Mr G with a 
new rate. Rather, it said it would consider doing so, provided they agreed to engage in a 
wider conversation about the arrears and their strategy for repaying the capital of their 
interest-only mortgage. In all the circumstances, I dont think that was either unfair or 
unreasonable in the current regulatory climate. 
Arrears and repayment strategies for interest-only mortgages are both factors about which 
the FCA requires lenders to engage pro-actively with borrowers. In a situation where 
borrowers with an interest-only mortgage that was in arrears wanted a new interest rate 
product, 
Skipton did what Id expect a prudent lender that was mindful of its regulatory obligations to 
do. I appreciate Mr G in particular considered this to be an unnecessary condition, but whilst 
he might have considered it unwelcome, it wasnt unfair, which is the test I have to apply. 
Its regrettable that it took until April 2023 for an appointment to take place, and I note that 
when it did, one outcome of this was that Mrs and Mr G were granted a new rate. But I cant 
fairly say the delay is Skiptons responsibility. When the first effort at holding an appointment 
stalled in September 2022, as the parties seeking a new rate, I consider it was incumbent on 
Mrs and Mr G to take the initiative in setting up another appointment. I dont think it was up 
to Skipton to do that for them. 
Skipton had told Mrs and Mr G in the final response of 29 September 2022 what they 
needed to do if they wanted to be considered for a new interest rate. It was then up to 
Mrs and Mr G to take the next step if they wanted to.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Mrs and Mr G. Thats 
a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as they 
are here. 
But my remit requires me to be objective, impartial, and to decide what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against 
Skipton Building Society. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman