DRN-2735687
The complaint
M, a limited company, is unhappy that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited
declined to cover a claim made on the legal expenses insurance (LEI) part of its commercial
insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 March 2021 explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold it - part of which is copied below:
M sold a property it owned (the property) to a couple (the claimants) in 2010. Electricity
was supplied to the property from a meter located on Ms property.
Many years later, in December 2015, M provided the claimants with six months notice that it
would stop supplying electricity to the property and that the claimants should arrange an
alternative electricity provider.
In 2018, M contacted DAS about making a LEI claim to cover its legal costs defending the
claimants legal proceedings that M had unlawfully terminated the electricity supply to the
property. The claimants said they had an express servitude right to electricity supply and to
the electrical cabling.
DAS initially declined the claim on the basis that it wasnt a contractual dispute about the
provision of goods or services; it related to the sale of a property. And that wasnt an insured
incident as defined by the LEI.
M didnt agree  it said this was a contractual dispute  separate to the sale of the property.
DAS accepted what M said. It agreed to refer the case to Ms nominated law firm to
complete a claims management report (CMR) which asked for a factual and legal summary
of the claim, a cost estimate and advice on Ms prospects of successfully defending the
claim.
The law firm advised that the prospects of M successfully defending the claim were 50%. It
also said:
Because the (claimants) failed to pay a security deposit (M) terminated the electrical
supply which runs to (M)s property. The (claimants) have a servitude right to the
electrical supply which (M) has terminated.
As a result, in early October 2018, DAS advised that it was unable to fund the claim going
forwards. It also said that given the nature of the claim, as summarised by the law firm, it
wasnt one that would be covered under the LEI in any event.
M wasnt happy with DAS decision so raised a complaint. That complaint wasnt upheld by
DAS, who maintained its position in a letter dated March 2019.
In early September 2019, the law firm wrote to DAS setting out that:
- The dispute concerns contractual law, not property law;
- There wasnt a right of servitude to supply electricity to the claimants property;  
   there was a contractual agreement for M to supply electricity.
- Prospects of defending the claim were 75% or above.
DAS responded towards the end of October 2019. It noted that the law firm had revised its
assessment on prospects in favour of M. However, it maintained that the dispute wasnt one
that constituted an insured incident under the LEI. It said the dispute stemmed entirely from
the sale of the property; and wasnt a contractual dispute about the supply of goods or
services. It also said it hadnt seen any evidence of there being a separate contract for M to
supply the electricity.
Our investigator upheld Ms complaint. She didnt think DAS had fairly and reasonably
conflated the sale of the property and M supplying the property with electricity. She
recommended DAS reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
DAS didnt agree and maintained its position that the supply of electricity related to the
purchase of the property. It said that neither M or the law firm had provided DAS with a copy
of a separate contract relating purely to the supply of electricity. But if it was able to do so it
would review its decision on cover.
Although she hadnt seen a contract between the parties for M to supply electricity, our
investigator replied that she had considered the Deed of Conditions (the Deed) relating to
the property and nothing in Deed confirmed that there was a right for M to supply electricity
to the property. Our investigator invited DAS to point to a specific term in the Deed if it
disagreed. DAS didnt respond to this point but maintained its position that the nature of the
dispute wasnt covered.
The complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insured incident and assessment on prospects:
Under the policy, the LEI can cover disputes if theyre an insured incident. That can include
contractual disputes arising from an agreement or an alleged agreement which has been
entered into by You or on Your behalf for the purchase hire sale or provision of goods or
services. But it doesnt cover certain contractual claims such as any claim relating to: the
sale purchase terms of a lease licence or tenancy of land or buildings.
Its also a requirement of the policy that M had reasonable prospects of successfully
defending the claim  defined as having at least 51% of successfully defending the claim -
for it to be covered. Although DAS initially declined the claim on the basis that it wasnt an
insured incident under the policy, after receiving further information from M, Im satisfied it
promptly referred the claim to the law firm to provide its CMR (and assessment on
prospects).
Given the information on the completed CMR, I dont think DAS unreasonably declined the
claim at that stage. The CMR clearly states that Ms prospects of defending the claim were
at 50% which doesnt amount to reasonable prospects of success under the policy.Although, M did inform DAS in March 2019 that the law firm had made a mistake when
completing the CMR, from the information I have, it doesnt look like DAS received anything
further from the law firm until September 2019. Thats almost one year after DAS received
the completed CMR from it.
The law firms letter dated 4 September 2019 says DAS decision that this was a property
dispute was taken before pleadings were finalised. It goes on to say:
The dispute concerned contractual law not property law... It became clear that the
provision of a supply of electricity was not a servitude right and never could be. It was
provided under a contract to supply between (M) as supplier and the (claimants) as
recipients (M) gave 6 months notice of an intent to discontinue, and then, when
then the (claimants) failed to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner,
offered to continue the supply provided they paid a security deposit of £300 and paid
invoices promptly at quarterly intervals. The offer was refused and so the supply
was discontinued.
The (claimants) have a servitude right to the use of the wiring and cabling, but they
have confused this with an obligation on (M) to provide the electricity through the
wiring and cabling. There is no such obligation on the part of (M). There was a
contract of supply between (M) and the (claimants) which contract (M) was entitled to
terminate when the (claimants) refused to enter into a payment arrangement.
The law firm also confirmed the prospects of success were now at 75% or more.
Considering this further advice from the law firm, Im not persuaded that DAS decision to
maintain its stance that the dispute wasnt covered as an insured incident was fair and
reasonable. The legal dispute had progressed by September 2019 and I think its reasonable
to presume the law firm wouldve had a better understanding of the factual and legal issues
to be determined by the Court when compared to first reviewing the case in October 2018.
The law firm has clearly set out the reasons to support its updated advice that there was a
separate contract for M to provide electricity to the property.
DAS says it hasnt been provided with a copy of the contract between the parties setting out
Ms obligation to provide the electricity and if it did then it would review its position. But the
policy doesnt stipulate that the dispute needs to arise out of a written contract. It appears
that M is relying on an implied contract and the policy says contractual disputes can be
covered if they arise out of an alleged agreement. Further, theres nothing in the Deed
confirming a right of servitude for M to provide electricity to the property; although it does set
out other servitude rights.
So, like our investigator, I wouldve been minded to find that DAS shouldve accepted that
the dispute was an insured incident from 4 September 2019 and shouldve reconsidered the
claim in light of the remaining terms at that stage.
However, when deciding this complaint, I asked the parties to provide the applicable
schedule of insurance for the commercial insurance policy M had in place covering the
period 2015 /2016. That confirms, for the period between 31 August 2015 to 30 August
2016, Ms commercial insurance policy didnt include LEI. And I think thats relevant to this
complaint.
The date of occurrence:
Legal proceedings were issued against M in August 2018. But I dont think that was the date
of occurrence, as defined by the policy.Subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, M will be indemnified in respect
of any insured incident provided that:
The date of occurrence of the insured incident is during the period of insurance.
Im currently persuaded that the insured incident is the contractual dispute, as defined by the
policy.
And under the policy, the date of occurrence is defined as:
For civil cases the date of Event. If there is more than one Event arising at different
times from the same originating cause the Date of Occurrence is the date of the first
of these Events.
Event is defined as:
Any one occurrence or series of occurrences directly or indirectly attributable to
single source or the same original repeated or continuing cause.
Paragraphs 7  10 of the particulars of claim, setting out the legal claim against M, says that
on or around 9 December 2015 M advised the claimants that it should obtain an independent
electricity supply. M gave the claimants six months to do this and the electricity supply was
terminated on 15 June 2016. Its because of the electricity supply being cut off that the
claimants are claiming they have suffered loss and damage.
The CMR, completed by the law firm, puts the incident date as June 2016.
So, Im currently satisfied that the Event either occurred in December 2015, when notice
was given to terminate the electricity supply. Or, at the latest, June 2016  when the
electricity supply was cut off.
It was the contractual dispute which ultimately led to the legal proceedings being issued
against M. Both dates fall within the period of insurance that M didnt have LEI included with
its commercial insurance policy. And it has been confirmed that M didnt have a standalone
LEI policy covering that policy year either.
Ive shared my initial thoughts with the parties regarding the date of occurrence and how this
affected the claim made by M. And invited them both to provide any comments.
DAS has confirmed that it had the incident date recorded as December 2015, relying on the
contents of the particulars of claim. And as the LEI policy wasnt in place at the incident date,
it says it wont cover Ms claim.
M has said that legal proceedings were commenced in 2018 and so the claim should be
covered under its 2018 / 2019 policy  which did include LEI. M requested we send the
documents which supported that the date of occurrence took place in 2015 / 2016.
Documents were sent to M and although we asked for any further comments, we received
no response.
So, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im currently satisfied that the commercial insurance
policy M had in place for the period 31 August 2015 and 30 August 2016 - during the time
the contractual dispute originated - didnt include LEI. And Im currently persuaded that Ms
LEI claim isnt one that DAS fairly and reasonably ought to recover.Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. M didnt dispute my provisional decision. DAS had 
nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further evidence or substantive comments in response to my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied that theres no reason for me to reach a different outcome.
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision  which Ive set out above  I dont 
uphold Ms complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask M to accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman