DRN-2980368
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has administered his group
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr R changed from a group scheme with another insurer to a group
private medical insurance policy which was underwritten by AXA. The policy was offered on
a full medical underwriting basis. So Mr R filled-out an enrolment form for the new policy,
which asked questions about Mr Rs medical history and his health. He declared that he had
hypertension, which was controlled by medication. AXA ultimately applied an exclusion to Mr
Rs policy for any treatment and investigations related to hypertension and any associated
conditions. It considered associated conditions to be Ischaemic Heart Disease; heart attack;
cerebrovascular disease; cardiac arrythmias and hypertensive renal disease.
Subsequently, in May 2020, Mr R got in touch with AXA to make a claim for an issue with his
right hand. His GP had referred Mr R to an orthopaedic specialist. However, when he
completed the claim details, Mr R entered that hed first experienced symptoms in August
2018. And a letter from Mr Rs GP also said that a lump on his thumb may have grown larger
over the past 12 months, which suggested a problem with Mr Rs right hand had been
ongoing for at least a year. As both of these dates pre-dated the start of Mr Rs policy and
the issue hadnt been declared on Mr Rs enrolment form, AXA applied an exclusion for all
investigations and treatment related to right-hand trouble and any underlying cause.
Mr R was unhappy with the way AXA had administered his policy. He felt the hypertension
exclusion was unfair, given his condition was stable and well-controlled. And he provided a
letter from his GP about his right hand problems. The GP said that Mr Rs problem was in
the joints of his thumb and fingers on his right hand. The GP stated he felt the joint issue
was unrelated to a small lump which hed looked at 12 months previously. AXA considered
this letter but explained to Mr R that as the GP hadnt given a diagnosis, hed need to get a
more specific letter from a specialist before it could review the exclusion relating to his hand.
Mr R remained unhappy with AXAs position and so he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think AXA had treated Mr R unfairly. She felt AXA had clearly set out
that it didnt cover pre-existing medical conditions and had defined what it meant by this. And
she was satisfied this had been explained on the enrolment form. She was persuaded that
both of Mr Rs conditions fell within the scope of AXAs exclusion clause. While shed
considered the evidence from Mr Rs GP, she felt there had still been an issue with Mr Rs
thumb which had been apparent 12 months earlier. So she thought it was reasonable for
AXA to ask for more information from a specialist about Mr Rs thumb condition before
reviewing the exclusion. She also explained that while Mr R considered his hypertension to
pose a low risk of claim, it was for AXA to decide what risks it did and didnt want to cover.
Mr R disagreed. He said he couldnt agree with the investigators conclusions, especially
given his GPs comments.
I issued my provisional decision on 6 August 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think AXA had treated Mr R unfairly. I said:
First, its important I explain that it isnt my role to tell insurers how to assess risk; what
exclusions they may or may not apply or what price to charge for offering a policyholder
insurance cover. Those are examples of a financial business exercising its commercial
judgement. What I can do though is to check whether AXA exercised its discretion
legitimately and that Mr R wasnt singled out in any way.
Ive considered the terms of Mr Rs policy, as these form the basis of his contract with AXA.
AXA provided Mr Rs policy on a full medical underwriting basis. This meant AXA asked Mr
R questions about his health at the point of application and used those answers to decide on
what basis to offer cover. AXAs also set out what it means by a pre-existing condition
(something it wouldve wanted to know about). The policy defines a pre-existing condition as:
any disease, illness or injury that: you have received medication, advice or treatment for in
the five years before the start of your cover, or you have experienced symptoms of in the five
years before the start of your cover; whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
The enrolment form Mr R signed also states that once a policyholder has joined, theres no
cover for the treatment of any medical condition that a policyholder already had when they
joined (including symptoms whether or not they were being treated, or conditions which
arose from or were related to those conditions), which they hadnt told AXA about.
Im satisfied that the terms of Mr Rs contract make it clear that AXA is entitled to use the
information a policyholder provides to weigh up on what terms to offer cover. And that it may
decide to exclude certain medical conditions from the policy it offers.
Was it fair for AXA to apply the hypertension exclusion to Mr Rs policy?
Ive seen a copy of the enrolment form Mr R completed when he applied for the policy. He
answered yes to a question which asked whether he had medical conditions, amongst other
questions. Mr R declared that he suffered from blood pressure, since 2013, which was
treated with medication. He said his health was good and that his condition was monitored
by his doctor.
Its standard underwriting procedure for an insurer to ask for information about a
policyholders health before assessing whether or not its prepared to cover the risk and if so,
at what price. So I think it was fair and reasonable for AXA to rely on the information Mr R
provided when it underwrote his policy.
AXA has provided me with underwriting information to show me why it applied the
hypertension and associated condition exclusion to Mr Rs policy. Im afraid that I cant share
this information with Mr R because its commercially sensitive. However, I hope it reassures
Mr R to know that Ive carefully checked the evidence. And Im satisfied that the same
guidance wouldve been applied to any policyholder in the same situation as Mr R. This
means I dont think AXA has singled Mr R out in any way.
I appreciate Mr Rs hypertension is stable and well-controlled. And that he considers hes at
a lower risk of a claim than a policyholder who isnt aware that they have high blood
pressure. But as Ive explained, AXA would apply the same exclusion to any policyholder in
Mr Rs circumstances. So I dont think its applied the exclusion to Mr Rs policy unfairly.
Was it fair for AXA to apply the right hand exclusion to Mr Rs policy?
When Mr R first made the claim for his joint issues in May 2020, I can see the claimsubmission clearly stated that hed first suffered symptoms in August 2018. This would
clearly fall within the five-year pre-existing condition period Ive outlined above. And Mr Rs
GPs first letter of 12 May 2020 also referred to the fact that a lump on Mr Rs hand mightve
grown larger over the past 12 months. Again, this would point to Mr R having suffered
symptoms within the five year period prior to the policy being taken out. Ive noted too that in
the GPs follow-up letter of 10 June 2020, he referred to the fact that Mr R had consulted him
about the lump 12 months previously  apparently in or around June 2019.
Mr Rs enrolment form includes a section called General Practitioner Treatment, which
immediately underneath asks, have you or anyone you want to include on this policy been
to see a medical practitioner in the past year? (this includes doctor, physiotherapist, practice
nurse, etc). Mr R ticked a box which said no. It seems to me that this was a clear question.
In my view, Mr R shouldve been prompted to answer yes to this question and declare the
hand issue hed visited the GP about in 2019. This wouldve allowed AXA to decide whether
or not to cover Mr Rs existing issues. I dont think Mr R deliberately sought to mislead AXA,
but I think he ought to have taken more care to answer its question accurately, especially as
it seems hed seen the GP only a few months before.
As Mr R hadnt told AXA about his right-hand issue or GP visit on the enrolment form, AXA
chose to apply a retrospective exclusion for right-hand problems to his policy. This is in line
with the remedy available to an insurer under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and
Representations) Act 2012 where a policyholder has made a careless representation at the
point of application. In effect, an insurer can re-underwrite the policy as if it had had all of the
information it needed and apply any terms it wouldve added from the start. Again, Ive seen
underwriting evidence which shows that AXA wouldve applied the same exclusion to any
policyholder in Mr Rs circumstances.
I appreciate Mr Rs GP subsequently provided a letter which stated that Mr Rs hand
problem was joint related and that he didnt think it was linked to the lump hed seen Mr R
about previously. I accept its possible that there isnt a link and that Mr Rs condition is new
and unrelated. But AXA has said that as the GPs letter didnt provide a diagnosis, it requires
evidence from a specialist concerning Mr Rs diagnosis and hand issues before it can
consider making the exclusion more specific. From all Ive seen, no such specialist evidence
has been provided. And it remains the case that Mr Rs 2020 claim relates to symptoms in
his right hand, which AXA has chosen to exclude from cover. Its open to Mr R to obtain
specialist evidence and provide it to AXA to review. But based on all Ive seen, Im satisfied it
was fair for AXA to apply the right hand exclusion to Mr Rs policy.
Overall, I currently think AXA has treated Mr R fairly.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
AXA didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr R maintained that the heart exclusion was too wide and that his GP felt that many of the 
conditions AXA has excluded arent linked to hypertension. He asked whether, if his 
medication and condition remained unchanged, the heart exclusion could be removed. He 
also stated that he cant have his right hand examined or diagnosed, because theres 
nothing to review. He asked how he could provide AXA with information to show there wasnt 
a link with his past symptoms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that AXA hasnt treated Mr R unfairly and Ill explain why.
I appreciate Mr R considers the hypertension exclusion is too wide and I note he says his 
GP considers that some of the conditions AXAs excluded arent linked to hypertension. But 
AXA has made a commercial decision to exclude Mr Rs hypertension and some medical 
conditions it considers are associated with it. As Ive explained above, AXA has 
demonstrated that it applies this exclusion to any policyholder in Mr Rs situation. So Im still 
satisfied it hasnt singled him out in any way and that its exercised its commercial discretion 
fairly. 
AXA explained in its final response to Mr Rs complaint that it will only consider removing the 
hypertension exclusion on the policy if he no longer needs medication to control the 
condition. It also stated that that hed need to be medication-free for two years and with 
blood-pressure readings within normal-age range before it can look into removing the term.
Mr R says hes unable to provide specialist evidence to show that there isnt a link between 
the hand symptoms he experienced before the start of the policy and the claim he made 
after itd begun. Thats because he no longer has any symptoms and he says his GP wont 
refer him to a specialist. But as I set out in my provisional decision, I think AXA was 
reasonably entitled (under the terms of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and 
Representations Act) 2012) to apply the general right hand exclusion to the policy once it 
learned about the symptoms Mr R experienced before he took it out. I sympathise with Mr 
Rs position because hes currently unable to provide further information about a diagnosis 
or more specific information about his condition. However, I think its fair for AXA to conclude 
that it doesnt currently have enough information to make the exclusion more specific.
Should Mr R experience further issues with his right hand in the future, its open to him to 
provide AXA with this information at that point. This will allow AXA to determine whether to 
make the exclusion more specific and whether or not to consider future claims related to Mr 
Rs right hand.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman