DRN-2714536
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her bank account and registered a 
fraud marker resulting in financial loss.
What happened
Miss B had a personal account with Barclays. In December 2019 she was told that this was 
under review and on 3 January 2020 Barclays wrote to her and told her that it was closing all 
her accounts with immediate effect. She found out that it had registered a fraud marker and 
says that this is why an account for a company she was a director of at a different financial 
business was also closed. She told Barclays that she had been the victim of a scam and it 
accepted that and reopened her account. But she says that the other financial business 
wouldnt. And that an investor in her company pulled out and she had wasted costs. 
Barclays said that its process wasnt to contact Miss B during its review. It had received a 
report of fraudulent funds paid into Miss Bs account. And so, it was entitled to close her 
account and register a marker. It said that when Miss B explained what happened it 
accepted she had been the victim and it reinstated her accounts and paid her £200 in 
compensation.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said that Miss B had 
explained that she had been contacted about an investment and trading course costing 
£5,500. She explained that she couldnt afford this but was told she could have an interest 
free loan that would be arranged for her. She agreed and the money was paid into her 
account in November 2019 and she was told to pass this onto the training company. She 
thought that this was the loan. But she later found that the funds she received had been 
fraudulently obtained. And that a loan had been taken out with an unrelated business in her 
name too. 
Barclays didnt contact Miss B before closing her account. And she raised a complaint and 
someone at the genuine loan company contacted Barclays to explain that Miss B had been a 
victim. But by the time Barclays had taken this action the company account at the different 
financial business had already been closed. This had a significant impact on that company 
which was involved in property development. Fees of £2,023 had to be paid for a planning 
application on a potential house purchase. And he had seen confirmation from the potential 
investor who had pulled out because the company didnt have a bank account, and this 
undermined its legitimacy.
Our investigator recommended that Barclays pay that company £2,023. And increase the 
amount of compensation to Miss B from £200 to £400. It ought to have contacted her before 
adding the marker and had it done so the loss could have been avoided.
Barclays didnt agree. It said that it hadnt made a mistake by not contacting Miss B. And it 
had a legitimate fraud claim and had to act appropriately. It said that Miss B didnt contact it 
until the complaint and only then advised that she was the victim. The marker was applied 
correctly at the time.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 5 March 2021. I set out below what I said.
I noted that Barclays didnt register a CIFAS fraud marker but one on a database visible to 
other financial businesses. So, I thought it fair to expect that it had sufficient evidence to 
support the marker. And in identifying an account being used as a money mule as here. 
Miss B ought to have had the opportunity to explain what happened and had she done so I 
agreed that its likely that the marker wouldnt have been applied. 
I understood that Miss B was on holiday at the time of the account closure. But her account 
was restricted in December 2019. Barclays had applied case notes saying that the reasons 
shouldnt be discussed with her. And it records that she contacted it on 20 December 2019 
to ask why she couldnt use her account and was told about the timescales of the review. I 
didnt think its fair to say she didnt give the explanation at the time because it seems that 
she wasnt asked to do so.
Her accounts at Barclays were closed on 3 January 2020 and re-opened on 25 February 
2020. Miss B says her company account was closed on 16 January 2020 and the different 
business operating that wont re-open this.
financial loss
Miss B did have a personal current account with a separate financial business that was 
operating from at least 1 January 2020. She made payments from that account to an 
architect of £384 on 25 January 2020 and £1,152 on 2 March 2020. And a payment to a 
planning authority in connection with an application for planning permission on 10 March 
2020 of £487. These make up the figure of £2,023. We also have an email dated 11 August 
2020 from an individual to this service who says he was going to invest in the purchase and 
development of the property. That person says due diligence checks had been carried out 
and being told that a companys finances are to be run in a personal bank account are a 
cause for concern and I couldnt in good faith proceed with the investment opportunity even 
if this was not [Miss Bs] fault.
I had noted from publicly available records that the planning application was submitted on 10 
March 2020 and withdrawn on 29 July 2020 following it seems an email from a planning 
officer and consultation between the architect and the company as client.
I am afraid that for a number of reasons I didnt think that I could fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for these costs:
- The contract with the architect and for development was with a legally separate entity 
to Miss B and it isnt the complainant here.
- It appears from her bank statement that she split those costs equally with the other 
director but in any event these were costs due based on the invoices from the 
company and I cant in a complaint from Miss B make an award to a different legal 
entity.
- The investment and development was most likely on what Id seen dependent on 
planning permission being obtained and there was no certainty it would be and that it 
would go ahead. From what Id understood the property hadnt been bought at the 
time and I couldnt know what the decision would have been if the application hadnt 
been withdrawn.
- I also didnt know if the investor would have gone ahead even if there had been a 
bank account and it seems that having been told that this wasnt Miss Bs fault still 
didnt take a different view.- The financial business holding the company account made its own decision about 
whether to continue to operate it and it seems was made aware by 25 February 2020 
of the removal of the marker. If it still wouldnt operate an account thats a matter for 
the company to take up with that financial business and not something Barclays 
ought then to be responsible for.
- I was unclear what other options for a business account with a different business 
were available taking into account the long period during which the planning 
application was undecided and what else Miss B reasonably did to mitigate the 
impact.
So as a result, I was not able to find that Barclays actions either alone or in part caused   
Miss B, the complainant here a specific financial loss.
As Ive mentioned she had a personal account with a different financial business which it 
seems she was using both in this country and when abroad in January 2020. But I did agree 
that Barclays has caused her a measure of distress and inconvenience. I thought that the 
amount already paid was reasonable and so I said I wouldnt be asking it to do anything 
further.
I said that this was a provisional decision. But that if Miss B didnt accept my final decision 
about this complaint after any comments or evidence she still remained free to pursue this 
matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B said she had nothing to add to what I had said in my provisional decision. Barclays 
didnt make any further comments either. That being the case I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions of my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint on the basis that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
need do no more than it has already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman