DRN-2814019
The complaint
Mr M complains about the suitability of the advice he was given by Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K) Limited (Sun Life) to take out Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) plans in 1997. He says Sun Life didnt refer him to his employer for 
details of his in-house AVC options or make him aware of the cost differences between the 
schemes.
He says if hed been made aware that the FSAVC plans were more expensive he would 
have taken out the in-house alternative. He would like to be compensated for any financial 
loss hes suffered from taking out the FSAVC plans. 
What happened
Mr M was a member of his employers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). He also held a 
paid-up personal pension plan (PPP), so in June 1997, as he wanted to fund early 
retirement, Mr M met with Sun Life (where he held the PPP) and agreed to pay a monthly 
contribution of £32.47 into an FSAVC. Sun Life has said that contributions to this plan were 
doubled just two months later.
In October 1997 Mr C agreed to convert his paid-up PPP into another FSAVC plan restarting 
monthly contributions at the previous PPP level. In 2002 Mr C stopped contributions to both 
plans and in May 2017 the benefits were transferred to another provider. 
But in January 2020 Mr M, using a representative, complained about the suitability of the 
original advice hed received. He said that he hadnt been given suitable advice because 
there hadnt been a meaningful discussion of the cost differences between AVCs and 
FSVACs and he was now aware that it was likely the in-house AVCs would have had lower 
costs. Therefore, he said he wanted Sun Life to calculate the difference, on a charges only 
basis, between the two schemes and pay redress where appropriate. 
Sun Life didnt uphold the complaint. It said its recommendation letter demonstrated that the 
generic differences between AVCs and FSAVCs had been discussed and Mr M had been 
referred to his employer regarding the in-house AVCs. It said Mr M had chosen the FSAVC 
route because of its investment choices and portability  as well as the potential for his 
retirement at age 60.  
 
Mr M wasnt happy with that outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. She thought this was a complaint we should uphold. 
She said there was no evidence to show that Mr M had been told that an in-house AVC plan 
would be cheaper and that he should explore such an option with his employer. She said 
Sun Life should undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators FSAVC review 
guidance.
Sun Life didnt agree. It said Mr M was made aware of the generic differences between the 
plans and this was shown in the suitability report. And it believed that he would have been 
referred to his employer as he was aware that additional contributions werent matched by 
them  so he would have been aware of the in-house options available through his 
employer, including added years if available. 
It thought that a document, which Sun Life advisers used to compare the various options, 
would have been discussed during the meeting with Mr M. And it said that document clearly 
confirmed that the costs around AVCs were generally lower than with FSAVCs. It also 
believed that the reasons Mr M gave for choosing an FSAVC showed the recommendation 
to be suitable for his circumstances and objectives at the time.  
The investigator noted that the document hadnt been signed by Mr M or that Sun Lifes file 
had demonstrated the document was provided to him or its content explained. So she wasnt 
persuaded to change her view. Sun Life said that the adviser had referred to the generic 
differences document in his recommendation letter and this was in line with its standard 
sales process at that time. It thought the available evidence suggested the document was 
discussed and this would have made Mr M aware of the potentially lower costs of an in 
house AVC. Sun Life said this satisfied the updated regulatory requirements which had been 
set out in an update known as RU20 in 1996. 
So as no resolution could be found the complaints been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigators assessment and for largely the same 
reasons. 
Up to May 1996 the regulator required company representatives to exercise due skill, care 
and diligence in dealing fairly with investors. In relation to FSVAC sales this meant knowing 
that in-house AVC options existed and mentioning the generic benefits of these options as 
well as highlighting the benefits of their FSAVC plan.
 
The generic benefits included that: 
AVCs potentially offered lower charges.
Added years might be another option.
The employer might potentially match or top up the amount a consumer contributed 
to either in-house option. 
But in May 1996 the regulator issued an update called RU20 which set out the procedures 
it expected product providers to follow, although this wasnt new guidance but restating what 
was already in place. The update said that a tied adviser shouldnt recommend their own 
companys FSAVC until they had:
Drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative.
Discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking account, 
among other things, of the features described in this article).
Directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information 
on the in-scheme option. 
Those generic differences which were part of the discussions should include, among a 
number of topics, the difference between charges and expense deductions. 
So Ive looked carefully at the documents Sun Life has provided, which confirmed what was 
discussed and agreed from the time of the sales in 1997  particularly with respect to 
whether it satisfied the RU20 requirements.Ive looked at the first reasons why letter which said you are currently a member of your 
employers pension scheme and you want to make additional contributions to a pension, as 
you intend to retire early. Having discussed the generic differences between in-house AVCs 
and free standing AVCs you wished to proceed along the Free Standing route because the 
investment choice is far greater. The co (sic) do not match any additional contribution, so 
this is not an issue. 
This is the only reference to the in-house alternative within the letter, but I dont think it 
satisfies the regulatory requirements. I say that because, based on the evidence Ive seen, 
theres nothing in the letter to confirm that Mr M was referred to his employer or that he was 
provided with or referred to the comparison of in-house AVCs and free standing AVCs 
leaflet. This leaflet is important in the context of the evidence to support Sun Lifes argument 
as it contained the statement that charges on money purchase AVCs are usually 
significantly lower than on an FSAVC, which would satisfy the requirement to make Mr M 
aware that an in-house option would most likely be a cheaper alternative. 
But the reasons why letter doesnt mention the leaflet at all, it simply says that having 
discussed the generic differences rather than having discussed the differences contained 
within the leaflet. Of course, I cant discount entirely that the leaflet wasnt used  and Sun 
Life has confirmed it was a part of its standard advice process. But based on what Ive seen I 
cant reasonably say the reasons why letter makes any refence to the leaflet and the 
information contained within it, so I cant conclude that Mr M was made aware of the 
differences in charges. It should be noted that there isnt any other reference to the cost 
difference within the letter, so Im not persuaded that Mr M was provided with the required 
information. 
Ive also looked at the reasons why letter for the increase in contributions later in 1997. It 
said, we once again discussed the differences between your free standing AVC and the in-
house scheme offered to you by your company. So I cant say that the second letter made 
reference to costs or the leaflet either, and when taken together its difficult to conclude that 
the lower costs of the AVCs were part of the conversation between the adviser and Mr M.
Sun Life says its standard sales practice was for the document to be discussed, and the 
evidence suggests that this was done. But I dont think the evidence from either reasons 
why letter suggests it was done. The discussion around generic differences doesnt include 
any reference to an accompanying leaflet, and Ive concluded theres not enough persuasive 
evidence to find in favour of a discussion which was based on the leaflet and included 
reference to the lower costs of an in-house AVC option.
I have also taken into account that while Sun Life has provided a copy of the comparison 
leaflet, it hasnt been able to provide the original copy which would have been signed by 
Mr M. I do appreciate Sun Lifes point about following its standard sales process and that the 
reasons why letter made reference to at least part of that practice  so it was satisfied the 
rest of the process would have been followed. But I simply havent been presented with 
enough evidence to show that a referral to the employer and a reference to the costs of the 
two schemes took place whether in conversation or through an accompanying leaflet, and 
made Mr M aware of the options available to him including the potential cost benefit of the 
in-house option. 
In my view if Mr M had been made aware of the cost difference between the schemes it 
would have been more likely than not that he would have chosen the cheaper in-house 
alternative. 
Ultimately here, for the FSAVC to be a suitable recommendation, Sun Life needed to follow 
the regulatory requirements set out in RU20. But, having carefully considered the available written evidence of whether the requirements were met, I dont think they were. Ive dont 
think, on balance, that the matter of charges was discussed fairly. As it was mentioned in a 
reasons why letter I would expect it to be clearly covered without ambiguity and not simply 
a passing comment. What Ive set out above, and taking into account Sun Lifes view of 
things, leads to me conclude that it wasnt set out clearly enough. 
Putting things right
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of 
Canada should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 
1 January 2005, Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life 
Financial of Canada should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 
and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20% here. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
  
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman