DRN-2300071
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
As a feature of Mr Ts account Lloyds provided him with cinema vouchers. Mr T had some 
vouchers which expired in March 2020 and he couldnt use them as cinemas were closed 
because of the Covid-19 pandemic. He asked Lloyds to extend the expiry date. 
It took several calls and several weeks for Lloyds to provide new vouchers. Following a 
complaint from Mr T Lloyds explained the delay was as a result of the pandemic. It accepted 
its service had fallen short though, apologised, offered Mr T £20 compensation and paid him 
£12 to cover his call costs.
Mr T didnt think this was enough compensation, so he asked our service for an independent 
opinion. An investigator considered the matter and concluded that, in their opinion, what 
Lloyds had done was a fair resolution to the complaint.
Mr T remained of the opinion that more compensation was appropriate, so the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds agreed to issue new vouchers with an expiry date of May 2021. I think that was a fair 
and reasonable thing for it to do as it meant that Mr T could use them and had plenty of time 
to do so.
Lloyds took more time then one would expect to issue the new vouchers. Its explained that 
this was a result of the pandemic. I accept that this was a factor as Lloyds (and other banks) 
were impacted in significant ways and there was guidance from the regulator to focus on 
essential services. In my view the issuance of cinema vouchers isnt an essential service. 
That being said, despite everything going on, I think Lloyds ought to have sent the vouchers 
in a timelier manner. So, I think Lloyds, Mr T and I are of the same opinion here.
So, Ive gone on to think about fair redress. Mr T couldnt have used the vouchers if hed 
received them sooner. So I dont think him not getting them sooner had an adverse impact 
on him. Its for this reason that I also dont think it was necessary for him to call as often as 
he did. Overall, I think £20 fairly compensates Mr T for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused and I consider £12 to be sufficient to cover his phone costs.
I understand that Mr T is unhappy with how long it took Lloyds to respond to his complaint. 
Complaint handling, however, isnt a regulated activity. So I cant comment on this.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Ts complaint, Lloyds Bank PLC should pay him £32 as it has offered to 
(unless it has already done so).
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Michael Fisher
Ombudsman