DRN-4381168
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont reimburse money she lost as a result of a 
scam.
What happened
Mrs H received a call from someone claiming to be from Santander. They said that there had 
been an attempt to use her card in another city and that her account was at risk. So shed 
need to move money to another, safe account. They also asked whether Mrs H had any 
other accounts and suggested that they too might be at risk. Mrs H confirmed she had an 
account with another firm  N and was advised that financial businesses work together on 
this type of fraud. Mrs H was also told to download remote access software to her device, 
supposedly to help secure her account further. 
Mrs H made a payment from her account at N to her account at Santander. She says the 
fraudsters generated amounts that she needed to pay from her Santander account. The 
fraudsters provided her with account details which related to another firm (P). Mrs H says 
that she was advised that P would show on her screen, but she cant recall whether it 
actually did. She also doesnt recall being asked what the payments were for or being 
provided with any warnings.
Mrs H made four payments totalling £1,659 over the course of less than 10 minutes on 3 
May 2023. When the caller hung up without explaining how Mrs H could access her money, 
she became concerned and contacted Santander.
It considered her losses under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code which requires signatories like Santander to reimburse victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. In this case it said that it could rely on 
one of the exceptions to full reimbursement:
 
In all the circumstances at the time of the payment, in particular the characteristics of the 
Customer and the complexity and sophistication of the APP scam, the Customer made the 
payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
(i) the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
(ii) the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
(iii) the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Santander did, however, accept it could have done more to prevent the scam  so it 
reimbursed Mrs H 50% of her losses. It also tried to recover Mrs Hs money, but doesnt 
appear to have received a response. 
Mrs H thought that she should be reimbursed in full, so she referred a complaint to our 
service and one of our Investigators upheld it. They thought that Mrs H had acted reasonably 
when she made the payments, particularly given the apparent risk facing her accounts. They 
thought the callers knowledge of her general location and the last use of her card would 
have been persuasive to her. They also thought that Santander should have questioned the 
third payment  given the concerning and rapid series of payments which took place. And, 
had it done so, the scam would have come to light and the loss would have been prevented.
So they recommended that Santander reimburse Mrs H the remaining 50% of her losses as 
well as 8% simple interest from either the date Santander declined her claim under the CRM 
Code (in the case of the first two payments) or the date of the payments (in the case of the 
final two payments).
Santander didnt agree, in summary, it said:
The caller didnt go through any verification with Mrs H and didnt know any genuine 
information about her. Had she asked the caller to prove their identity the scam 
would have come to light.
The call came from a private number, but Mrs H didnt question this.
Santander doesnt have access to customers accounts at other financial businesses, 
Mrs H ought to have known this.
Mrs H was given no information about how to access her account with P or how the 
funds would be returned to her. 
Overall it felt there were numerous red flags throughout which ought to have 
prompted Mrs H to question the caller before going ahead with the payments.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the relevant regulations is that Mrs H is responsible for payments 
shes authorised herself  even those that she has been tricked into making. But, as noted, 
Santander are a signatory to the CRM Code. It also ought, fairly and reasonably, to be on 
the lookout for out of character and unusual transactions or other indications that its 
customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud.
Turning to the CRM, Santander relies on the exception to reimbursement set out above. It 
thinks that Mrs H ought to have questioned the caller further and, if she had done, the scam 
would have been revealed. 
Its important to state that I recognise that there are more sophisticated iterations of this 
scam. The fraudsters did not spoof Santanders genuine number and they do not seem to 
have known a great deal of information about Mrs H (she only thinks they knew the last use 
of her card and it seems this knowledge might have been acquired after she gave them 
remote access to her device).  
But the test under the CRM Code isnt entirely objective. It permits me to take into account 
the victims characteristics to decide whether the belief they held was a reasonable one. And 
Mrs H certainly did hold that belief, even if just for the short time that she spoke to the 
fraudsters  her actions cant plausibly be explained in any other way. She acted in the 
interests of securing her accounts.
So, while I must consider the reasonableness of her actions, I must do so taking into account 
how Mrs H saw the situation, including what she appears to have known and not known. Of 
most value to this assessment is the call that took place immediately after she fell victim to 
the scam. While Mrs H expresses regret and fails to understand how she could have fallen for the scam, its evident that, until the end of the call with the fraudsters, she suspected 
absolutely nothing. She reiterated this in her complaint to our service. She also didnt seem 
to understand even the purpose of the software that was downloaded, let alone that it could 
be used for nefarious purposes. She questioned how she could possibly distinguish between 
genuine and fraudulent calls and the advisors suggestion that she could have called the 
bank seems to have come as a complete surprise to her.  
It appears that Mrs H was open to persuasion and was deferential to the fraudster who she 
believed had far superior knowledge to her own. I dont think she could identify, in the 
pressure of the situation, that the call presented a risk to her. And, once shed agreed to 
download remote access software to her device, I think the fraudsters were able to exploit 
the information they obtained to further convince her she was speaking to the bank. Due to 
that remote access, its also not clear whether Mrs H would have seen any of the warnings 
that Santander say it presented (she certainly doesnt recall them).
I think its fair and reasonable for me to take all of this into account when deciding whether 
Mrs Hs belief was reasonably held. Having done so, I think that Mrs H genuinely didnt 
recognise the risk here and though there are steps that she might have taken to verify the 
identity of the caller, I dont think that it occurred to her to take these steps.
Overall, I dont think Santander has demonstrated that Mrs H lacked a reasonable basis for 
belief and I think that she should be refunded in full under the provisions of the CRM Code.
Although the Investigator went onto make a finding that Santander should have also picked 
up on the third transaction as being unusual and should have questioned it before it debited 
Mrs Hs account, I dont think it is necessary for me to make that finding. The difference in 
redress amounts to no more than a few pence and I think that asking Santander to refund 
Mrs H in full under the CRM Code, as well as pay 8% simple interest per annum on the 
outstanding loss, fairly and reasonably puts Mrs H in the position she should be in
. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct Santander UK Plc to pay 
Mrs H:
the outstanding loss - £829.50.
8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date Santander declined Mrs 
Hs claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman