DRN-2109153
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received from Yorkshire Building Society (YBS). 
Hes unhappy about receiving only a single email notifying him that his investment is about 
to come to an end. Hes also unhappy about having his funds transferred to another account 
for a year, during which time he had no contact from YBS. 
To make things right Mr R would like the 45-day loss of interest removed (or refunded) when 
he makes his savings withdrawal. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mr R opened a fixed rate ebond (for online customers only) in August 2018, to end 
on 31 August 2019.  
He was provided with a factsheet which made clear that upon the maturity of the 
ebond his capital would be transferred to a fixed rate access ebond, and that he may 
withdraw all or part of his savings  within the first month after maturity  without any 
loss of interest. 
The factsheet also explained that Mr R would be notified, via email, the full details of 
the new fixed rate access bond at least 14 days prior to the maturity of his fixed rate 
ebond. 
On 13 August 2019 YBS sent Mr R this information in an email  within the required 
timeframe  which he confirmed he received. 
YBS made clear that Mr R had until 30 September 2019  within the first month after 
maturity  to withdraw his funds without loss of interest. 
Although Mr R is unhappy that he wasnt told that YBS would only send one email, 
the information about what it would do was clear. Despite what Mr R says there was 
nothing to suggest that it would call him or send another reminder in the post. 
This was an ebond and YBSs undertaking to communicate via email wasnt 
unreasonable.  
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
maintains sending him only one email and then locking his money away for a year is 
unacceptable.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr R says, Im not persuaded 
that YBS behaved unreasonably.  
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Rs 
strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support this complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr R and YBS, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I 
must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but Im not 
bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more 
likely than not to have happened. 
Im satisfied that Mr R was sent the relevant factsheet containing all the key information  in 
an easy to follow format  when he invested in the ebond in August 2018. 
Because this was an ebond  open to online customers only  YBS chose to communicate 
with its customers via email. Im satisfied that it was entitled to do so in the reasonable 
exercise of its commercial judgement, this isnt something our organisation would generally 
interfere with.
I note that the factsheet under the heading Maturity states:
This Fixed Rate eBond will mature into a Fixed Rate Access eBond. At maturity and during 
the first month after maturity you will be able to withdraw all or part of your savings and have 
full access to them without incurring any loss of interest. Thereafter, you will continue to 
have access to your savings but this will be subject to a number of days loss of interest on 
the amount of savings withdrawn. We will send to you via email full details of the new Fixed 
Rate Access eBond at least 14 days prior to the maturity of this Fixed Rate eBond.
 
On balance Im satisfied that the information provided made clear that YBS would only send 
Mr R a single email, at least 14 days prior to maturity, which Im satisfied it did via the email 
on 13 August 2019. 
In the circumstances I think the email along with the factsheet was enough to put Mr R on 
notice about when the ebond was about to mature, and what his options were thereafter. 
Despite what Mr R says, YBS wasnt obliged to send another reminder in the post or via a 
telephone call, so I cant blame it for not doing so. It wasnt something that YBS ever agreed 
to do. 
The factsheet also made clear that upon maturity the funds would be transferred to another 
account and that Mr R had a month (thereafter) within which to withdraw all or part of his 
funds without him losing any interest. 
I note Mr R is unhappy about the length of time his money remained in the new account. But 
in the circumstances, there was no obligation on YBS to notify him or to send him a reminder 
once the funds had been transferred, so I cant blame it for not doing so. 
The email dated 13 August 2019 made clear the options Mr R had between 1 September 
2019 and 1 October 2019 to access his funds without a loss of interest. Although this meant Mr R could still access his funds from 01 October 2019, this would be subject to a 45-day 
loss of interest. 
So, whilst I appreciate the point Mr R makes about the loss of interest, in the circumstances I 
cant blame YBS for this. In other words, Im unable to say YBS has done anything wrong by 
following the terms and conditions of the ebond.    
If Mr R missed the email at the time, I cant hold YBS responsible for this either. I also dont 
blame YBS for not asking him what he wanted to do as it provided him with options, as per 
the agreement, when he took out the ebond. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, 
overall, Im unable to say YBS behaved unreasonably. 
I appreciate YBS took nine and a half weeks to respond to Mr Rs complaint rather than eight 
weeks. I dont think this means the complaint should be upheld. 
I appreciate Mr R will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman