DRN-2023172
The complaint
Mr K complains that Xbridge Limited (T/A Simply Business) mis-sold him Landlord 
insurance. He said he wasnt made aware the cover he purchased items hed wanted to 
insure. And he said this impacted on him when he had to make a claim.
What happened
Mr K owns a ground floor flat, which he rents out. On 5 December 2018 he took out a 
landlord insurance policy, which was arranged by Simply Business (SB). He purchased this 
policy online directly via SBs website and selected contents cover for up to £10,000. Mr K 
said his flat is unfurnished. So, he only wanted to insure the washing machine and oven 
within his flat. 
After taking out this policy, the oven and washing machine within Mr Ks flat were damaged. 
This was caused by an escape of flat from the flat above, which caused Mr Ks ceiling to 
collapse.
When Mr K contacted SB to make a claim under his policy for the damaged items in his flat, 
he became aware that he hadnt purchased cover suitable to his requirements. The oven 
was considered to be a fixture and fitting, which SB said Mr K hadnt paid to cover. And, 
while his washing machine was covered under the contents section of his policy, the cost of 
replacing that item was the same as the excess.
Mr K wasnt happy about this. As hed specifically taken out contents cover to insure both his 
oven and washing machine he complained to SB that it had mis-sold him the insurance 
policy hed purchased. 
SB investigated Mr Ks concerns and explained it had provided him with the insurance cover 
hed purchased. It stated it had given him policy documentation, which confirmed the level of 
cover hed chosen, the applicable policy exclusions that would apply and the excesses hed 
have to pay in the event of making a claim. SB also said the policy had been sold on a non-
advised basis. So, it was Mr Ks responsibility to ensure it was suitable to his needs. It 
therefore didnt uphold his complaint as it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr K wasnt happy with SBs response to his complaint and referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what happened and thought SB had provided clear information about 
the policy features and exclusions in the policy documents it had issued Mr K at the point of 
sale. And they felt the onus was on Mr K to read the documentation hed received to ensure 
that the policy hed purchased was suitable to his requirements. Overall, they werent 
persuaded that SB had mis-sold the policy Mr K had purchased. And they didnt recommend 
upholding this complaint. But Mr K disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has sent some very detailed submissions in response to our investigators view of his 
complaint. I want to assure him Ive read and considered everything that both he and SB 
have sent when reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mr Ks raised as 
Ive focused on what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mr K wont take that as a 
discourtesy, my approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
I can appreciate why Mr K is disappointed with our investigators view of his complaint. 
Ive no doubt that suffering damage to items within his flat was very distressing for him. It 
must have been doubly so when he was informed that items, which he thought hed taken 
out insurance to cover, werent insured. But, while I have sympathy with Mr K, my role is 
to assess whether I think SB made a mistake, or treated him unfairly, in how it sold him 
his insurance policy.    
Mr K has told SB and our investigator that he believes he was mis-sold landlord 
insurance. And that is the crux of this complaint. Im aware that hes also complained that 
the claim he made under his policy was declined. But that is a separate complaint and I 
will not be commenting on how his claim was settled in this decision.
As Ive set out in the background to this complaint, Mr K purchased his policy via SBs 
website. I havent seen any evidence that would allow me to safely conclude that Mr K 
selected cover for fixtures and fittings during the online sales process. Instead, it appears he 
chosen to take out cover for contents only.
Im satisfied the policy sale here was conducted on a non-advised basis. I say this because 
SB didnt recommend the policy or provide Mr K with any advice as to the suitability of the 
cover he was selecting. There was no interaction between Mr K and SB prior to the point of 
sale.
The fact that the sale was non-advised is crucial as this means SB didnt need to make sure 
that the policy it sold was suitable for Mr Ks needs. But it had a responsibility to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make an informed decision 
on whether the policy was suitable for him. The responsibility for ensuring he had the cover 
he required therefore rested on Mr K.
Like many insurers, SB emails policy documentation to a policyholder once a policy has 
been purchased. This documentation includes, amongst other things, a policy schedule. 
The evidence Ive seen persuades me that policy documents were emailed to Mr K on 5 
December 2018  the day his policy was incepted. This was emailed automatically by SBs 
system. So, Im satisfied policy documentation was successfully emailed out to Mr K for him 
to consider.
SB expects a policyholder to read the policy documentation it has emailed. This is important 
because it enables a policyholder to make an informed decision about whether the policy 
theyve purchased provides adequate cover. And this is why insurers offer a cooling off 
period  during which a policyholder can cancel they policy theyve taken out without a 
financial penalty. 
Ive also seen records that satisfy me that Mr K opened the documentation SB sent him. Its 
reasonable to expect Mr K, like any policyholder, to read the documents and policy wording 
he received in order to ensure the policy hed purchased was suitable to his needs and 
matched the cover he required. If Mr K had read the policy documentation SB had sent him, hed have seen that fixtures and 
fittings were not included in the policy hed purchased. He could then have exercised his 
right to cancel his policy without penalty during the cooling off period. And he could have 
taken out more suitable cover elsewhere. 
I understand Mr K didnt contact SB, either within his cooling-off period or prior to him 
reporting his claim, to request it amend his policy to include fixtures and fittings. So, I cant 
fairly hold SB responsible for if Mr K didnt make it aware the policy hed purchased was 
unsuitable. As Ive already mentioned it was for him to determine suitability for himself.
I appreciate Mr K has been paying for a policy that wasnt suitable for him. But that isnt 
SBs fault  it could only insure him based on the information he provided. And thats what it 
did here. So, I cant say it did anything wrong in providing the cover it did.
Ive assessed whether the information SB provided was given to Mr B in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
The policy schedule SB emailed Mr K is a 13 page document, which provides a clear and 
self-explanatory summary of the level of cover a policyholder has taken out and the 
excesses that apply under the policy. Its written in clear, intelligible language and sets out, 
in unambiguous terms, that fixtures and fittings are not included in the policy Mr K 
purchased.
The terms that apply to Mr Ks policy span 30 pages. So, they arent onerous for a 
policyholder to read. And the policy terms clearly explain that landlords contents are:
Contents belonging to you or for which you are responsible comprising furniture, 
furnishings, carpets and other property within the furnished accommodation portion and the 
common hall, stairways and other common parts (including storage rooms and 
compartments) of the premises but excludinglandlords fixtures and fittings
The policy goes on to describe landlords fixtures and fittings as: 
Fixtures and fittings belonging to you or for which you are responsible comprisingbuilt-in 
domestic appliances.
As Mr Ks oven was a built-in appliance, I think he ought to have known from the policy 
schedule and policy booklet that his oven wasnt insured.  
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, having considered the sales process, the 
policy schedule and its policy terms and conditions, Im satisfied SB provided information to 
Mr K in a clear, fair and not misleading way information. And Im persuaded that, in doing so, 
it enabled Mr K to make an informed choice about whether the cover hed purchased was 
suitable This means I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Julie RobertsonOmbudsman