DRN-2137663
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC and their failure to add travel and breakdown 
insurance to her current account.
What happened
In January 2020, Mrs Y took out a current account with Barclays as she wanted to make use 
of the travel and breakdown insurance it included. Mrs Y deposited £1,000.00 into the 
account in order to cover the £12.50 per month charges for this insurance.
In May 2020, Mrs Ys car broke down and she contacted Barclays to utilise this insurance. 
But she was told the insurance hadnt been added to her account, so they were unable to 
help. Mrs Y had to contact another breakdown insurance provider and pay £160 for an 
annual membership before they would recover her car. Mrs Y was unhappy that Barclays 
had been unable to assist her when shed broken down, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs Y was unhappy that Barclays hadnt added the insurance to her account. She was 
unhappy shed gone on a cruise holiday at the end of January thinking she was covered by 
the travel insurance on her account. She explained if shed had to make a claim, shed have 
had no cover, and this upset her. She was also upset that shed had to pay for another 
breakdown insurance policy to ensure her car was recovered. So, she wanted Barclays to 
compensate her for the trouble and upset shed been caused.
Barclays responded to the complaint and upheld it. They agreed they failed to add the 
relevant insurance to the account, explaining a technical IT issue had caused the error. And 
they recognised this had forced Mrs Y to pay for additional breakdown cover when she 
needed to be recovered in May. They understood this wouldve been stressful and upsetting 
for Mrs Y when shed broken down. They also recognised Mrs Y had been on holiday 
thinking the travel insurance policy was in place but also considered the fact Mrs Y hadnt 
needed to make a claim. Taking all this into consideration, Barclays offered to pay Mrs £160 
to cover the cost of the breakdown insurance she took out and a further £250 to recognise 
the inconvenience Mrs Y had suffered. 
Mrs Y wasnt happy with the offer Barclays made as she didnt think it was enough to 
recognise the upset shed been caused. So, she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He agreed Barclays made an 
error by not adding the relevant insurances to the account. And he recognised both the 
financial and emotional impact it had on Mrs Y when she broke down in May. But he 
explained that, although he understood Mrs Ys concerns that shed travelled in January 
without valid insurance, he was unable to award compensation for this as Mrs Y fortunately 
didnt need to make a claim. So, he thought the total offer of £410 was a fair one and didnt 
think Barclays needed to do anything further.
Mrs Y didnt agree. She didnt think it was fair for Barclays to allow her to travel without valid 
insurance and not pay compensation for the risk she was placed in. So, she maintained her 
belief that Barclays should increase their original offer. As Mrs Y didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs Y was hoping for, but Ive explained my 
reasoning below.
Its not in dispute that Barclays made an error. Theyve admitted the travel and breakdown 
cover shouldve been added when the account was created in January. But, due to a 
technical error, it wasnt. So, theyve recognised the impact this has had on Mrs Y and have 
offered a total of £410 to compensate her for this.
The dispute in this complaint is around the level of compensation Barclays have offered, as 
Mrs Y doesnt feel its enough. So, Ive considered whether I think the offer Barclays have 
made is reasonable and compensates Mrs Y fairly for the inconvenience shes suffered. And 
in this situation, I think it does.
Ive no doubt discovering the cover hadnt been added to her account wouldve been 
upsetting. Especially when Mrs Y was made aware in a stressful situation, where her car had 
broken down and she needed immediate assistance. Due to the urgency of the situation, 
Mrs Y was forced to pay £160 to another breakdown cover provider to ensure her car was 
recovered from the roadside. 
When considering the actions a business should take to resolve a complaint, Id expect any 
action to place Mrs Y back in the position she wouldve been had the error not occurred. And 
in this situation, had Barclays added the cover correctly, Mrs Y wouldve been able to 
recover her car without the need to pay for another breakdown insurance policy. So, I think 
Barclays offer to refund her the £160 she spent is a fair one to recognise the financial loss 
she incurred.
Barclays have also offered an additional £250 to recognise the upset Mrs Y suffered. As Ive 
already explained, I think realising Barclays error wouldve made an already stressful 
situation worse for Mrs Y when her car broke down. And outside of that, I think Mrs Y 
wouldve been upset and frustrated as the sole reason for her taking out the account was to 
utilise the additional travel and breakdown cover. As these policies werent added, I think its 
reasonable for Mrs Y to feel as though shes wasted her time when setting up the account 
and depositing £1,000 into it.
I can also understand why Mrs Y is unhappy she travelled without valid insurance at the end 
of January. But, crucially, Mrs Y didnt need to claim on her insurance. While I appreciate 
Mrs Ys concerns about what may have happened if shed need to make a claim, fortunately 
she didnt need to. So, Mrs Y wasnt directly impacted by the fact the travel cover wasnt in 
place. And were only able to consider the direct impact Mrs Y suffered when considering 
what a fair offer should be.
Im also aware that, as the covers werent added correctly, Mrs Y wasnt charged for them. 
So, fortunately, Mrs Y wasnt paying for a cover that she wasnt able to use.Considering the above, I think the £250 Barclays offered to recognise the upset and 
inconvenience Mrs Y suffered is a fair one and in line with what Id recommend. So, I dont 
think they need to do anything further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ys complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman