DRN-3371785
The complaint
Mr H complains that Close Brothers Limited has mishandled arranging a credit 
agreement for a car.
Mr H has been assisted in his complaint by a third party but for ease of reference I will 
refer only to Mr H as the credit agreement is in his name.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr H arranged with a car dealership to acquire a car. The purchase of the 
car was to be in part funded by a hire purchase agreement with Close Brothers and also 
involved the sale of two cars already in his possession. The sale of these two cars 
actually exceeded the sales price of the new car and the dealership was to send the 
balance of £6,110 to Close Brothers. There was also outstanding finance on one of 
these cars with Close Brothers which was to be released once Mr H had exchanged it for 
the new car.
For the transaction to proceed Mr H had to sign a number of documents including the 
SECCI (the pre-contract information) and the hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement was for 25 months and the total credit amount was around £62,000.
Mr H says he was very concerned when a few days after taking possession of the new 
car he was asked by Close Brothers to sign a new agreement and to backdate his 
signature to the date of the initial agreement. He says he queried this with Close Brothers 
but felt he was pressurised and coerced to sign as Close Brothers told him that if he 
didnt, then the deal would be cancelled. He says that by this time he had the new car in 
his possession, the other two cars were with the dealer and a third party was interested in 
purchasing the car with the outstanding finance on it. So, he felt under pressure.
Mr H raised his concerns about the handling of the request to re-sign the document with 
Close Brothers. Close Brothers said it would investigate and also agreed that while this 
took place no funds would be taken from Mr Hs bank account. However, in July 2019 two 
direct debits were collected from Mr Hs account for £668.13 and £50. Mr H complained 
to Close Brothers and it arranged for those payments to be returned. Mr H complained to 
Close Brothers about the following points:
That he didnt understand the numbers of the deal
That he had felt forced to sign and backdate the agreement
That he felt staff had been rude and had deliberately not used the landlines to 
avoid being recorded
That direct debit payments had been taken after assurances this would not 
happen.
Close Brothers didnt uphold his complaint. It said that after investigating the 
matter thoroughly and in regard to the matters raised:
That although the deal had not been straight forward it could confirm that the 
numbers added up. It explained that the original invoice prepared by the 
dealership had needed amending as it contained the wrong amounts. This was 
amended during the drafting of the documentation. It said staff had tried to 
explain this to Mr H at the time.
That Mr H had been asked to re-sign the SECCI because due to an IT error the 
original document hadnt shown a description of the goods. It said it accepted 
there was time sensitivity around the completion of the documentation, and it 
thought this had led to some increased tension between the parties. It said the 
use of mobiles rather than the landline had been for convenience only since 
calls were not recorded in any event.
That there had been an administrative error when collecting the direct debit 
amounts and it confirmed it had acted immediately after being notified of these 
deductions by Mr H. The money had been returned to his account within a short 
time.
Mr H was unhappy at Close Brothers response and said it didnt address his complaint. 
He complained to this service. Mr H said he had been forced to sign the second 
agreement and backdate it, he felt there had been a lack of transparency about the 
figures and he had been temporarily deprived of the money taken wrongly by direct debit.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She said that 
although Mr H had been asked to sign a new invoice and a new agreement this had been 
due to an error on the figures on the first and a missing description of the goods on the 
second. She said it didnt appear that either the figures or the transaction had been 
affected by the amended agreement. Our investigator said an explanation had been given 
about what had gone wrong with the collection of the direct debits and she thought Close 
Brothers had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He said it couldnt be appropriate for a bank 
to force a customer to backdate a document on penalty that if they didnt, they will be 
disadvantaged. Mr H requested clarification as to whether the document hed been asked 
to sign again related to the SECCI and queried why the original document had been 
destroyed and not retained.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
I thought it was agreed between the parties that the arrangement for Mr H to acquire this 
car on a hire purchase agreement with Close Brothers hadnt been entirely straight 
forward. It had involved a number of parties, the part exchange of two cars (one with 
outstanding finance that needed to be released), the excess funds from the selling of the 
cars being passed to Close Brothers by the dealership and a third-party wishing to 
purchase one of the exchanged cars.
Id seen that there were errors in the paperwork. Firstly, the invoice had needed to be 
amended because the figures hadnt reflected the figures on the hire purchase 
agreement. Id seen that Mr H had said that he didnt necessarily dispute some of the 
figures though he had asked for an explanation. He said this hadnt been fully provided. 
However, I thought that an explanation would be the responsibility of the dealership 
because Close Brothers had no interest in one of the two part exchanged cars, and although it had financed the new car, it hadnt actually released funds to the dealership 
due to the finance it held on the other car that had been used as part exchange. It had 
been the dealership that would have worked out the value of the part-exchanged cars, 
the amount of the deposit and the finance required for the new car.
Id seen that Close Brothers had requested that the sales invoice for the new car 
reflected the figures on the hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement set 
out the cash price for the new car, the deposit paid, the amount of credit and the interest 
to be added. As Mr H had signed the hire purchase agreement then I thought it was 
reasonable to assume he had been happy about the details it contained. I couldnt 
reasonably say that amending the invoice affected the credit agreement or changed what 
Mr H was paying for the new car.
The next issue had arisen with the SECCI paperwork. The hire purchase agreement 
paperwork wasnt itself amended. The issue with the SECCI had arisen from an IT glitch 
which had resulted in the make and model of the car being purchased not showing so that 
there was no description of the goods in the section 2 headed Key features of the credit 
product. While I appreciated that I couldnt verify what had been missing from the original 
document, as it had been destroyed, Close Brothers had supplied me with an email sent 
between departments at the time Mr H had been requested to re-sign the SECCI. This 
email set out what had happened, why the SECCI needed to be amended and requested 
that a new signature was obtained from him. I was therefore satisfied on the evidence that 
Id seen that it was only the SECCI that had required correction.
Mr H felt very strongly that as this had been a legal document any backdating would 
render it invalid. I thought that would be a matter for a court to decide but in my role as 
part of an alternative dispute resolution service I thought this was a minor amendment of 
the SECCI and hadnt affected the hire purchases terms and conditions.
Close Brothers said that the reason Mr H had been asked to backdate this amended 
SECCI was that a decision had been made it was better for all the documentation to 
match, that there had been pressure for a timely completion of the deal and for the other 
car under finance to Close Brothers to be released. It said requiring Mr H to sign all the 
documentation again would have led to delay. I thought that this explanation for the 
backdating was reasonable particularly as it hadnt been the hire purchase agreement 
itself that had been involved in being amended and, as set out, the amendment had been 
minor. I wasnt clear why Mr H had been left confused about the amendment and I thought 
it was fair to say there had been a breakdown in communication between Close Brothers 
and Mr H. So, although it might have been unusual not to date a document with the actual 
date it was signed, I didnt think there had been any detriment to Mr H in the backdating of 
his signature.
Mr H had raised that he had felt coerced into signing the amended SEECI because if he 
hadnt then Close Brothers had said the deal would be cancelled. I didnt know what was 
said between the parties, but this did appear to have been a pressured situation. The cars 
involved were all relatively high value premium cars so I could appreciate that the various 
parties had all wanted the matter settled. I thought that as Mr H had been content with the 
deal to exchange the two cars for the new one, that he was unlikely to have pulled out of 
the arrangement because of the amendment that had been needed to the SECCI. I 
thought he would have signed it rather than have to return the car and unravel the 
agreement because that wasnt what he had wanted.
Close Brothers said that the original SECCI had been destroyed because there had been 
a view taken this would ensure data protection. It wasnt for me to criticise a business for 
its business practices. As I understood it, this had been a one-off IT error, and the decision had been made to replace the SECCI with one that had the correct information 
as to the goods supplied. I couldnt reasonably say that there was anything untoward or 
underhand in Close Brothers actions in destroying the original SECCI.
While I appreciated Mr H had been frustrated and upset by having the two direct debits 
taken from his account by Close Brothers despite its assurance this wouldnt happen, Id 
also seen that Close Brothers had arranged for the money to be returned very quickly. It 
had provided an explanation to Mr H about how it had happened, and I thought that had 
been reasonable.
So, although I appreciated there had been some misunderstandings and unclear 
communication here, I didnt think Close Brothers had done anything that I would 
consider unfair or unreasonable. The hire purchase agreements terms and conditions 
had been unaffected by the alterations to the invoice and the SECCI. I didnt think these 
amendments warranted compensation for Mr H although I accepted the situation had 
caused him frustration. I didnt intend to uphold his complaint.
Mr H disagrees with my provisional view. He says that he considers Close Brothers 
acted unfairly and unreasonably and that this would also be the view of an objective 
observer. Mr H says the problem with the paperwork wasnt of his making and the 
situation could have simply been resolved by Close Brothers apologising, providing an 
explanation, and asking him to sign new documents. Instead, he says, it threatened to 
withdraw the agreement if he didnt sign knowing that this would cause him substantial 
inconvenience and potential financial loss. Mr H says Close Brothers actions were 
bullying in nature and potentially unlawful and it should face a sanction. Mr H says it has 
refused to explain the figures and continues to do so.
Close Brothers hasnt asked me to review any parts of my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the conclusions I reached and my reasons for them and although I 
appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr H I havent changed my view.
The role of this service isnt to punish businesses but to investigate whether they have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably and consider, if they have, how that can be put right. Here Mr H 
says he felt bullied and pressurised into signing the amended SECCI document because 
Close Brothers threatened to cancel the agreement. However, I dont know what was said 
between the parties and Close Brothers hasnt accepted it bullied Mr H into signing corrected 
SECCI.
As set out above, I think there was a breakdown in the communication between Mr H and 
Close Brothers, but I havent seen enough evidence for me to say that this is all due to the 
actions of Close Brothers. Ive seen that the amendment to the SECCI was minor and I think 
it would have been clear to Mr H that the terms and conditions of the finance agreement 
hadnt been altered from those hed agreed at the dealership. There was no suggestion that 
there were any changes to the amount of credit, his monthly payments, or the amount of his 
deposit. I still dont think compensation is warranted to Mr H for the error on the 
documentation. The situation was resolved by his signing the amended documentation and 
nothing was delayed or cancelled and there were no changes to the finance agreement that 
hed already accepted.While I appreciate Mr H felt he was coerced into signing the amended documentation Ive 
also seen that it would have been to his detriment to cancel the agreement. There was also 
a time sensitivity involved. So, while I appreciate the error on the SECCI wasnt due to any 
actions of Mr H I cant say it was unfair for Close Brothers to ask him to sign the amendment 
so that the agreement could proceed. 
As I have set out above, I also dont think that Close Brothers was in a position to explain in 
any detail all the figures involved in the deal that was worked out at the dealership. Close 
Brothers had no interest in one of those two cars. Mr H also indicated that he wasnt 
necessarily disputing the figures. I think Close Brothers acted reasonably in assuming Mr H 
had been content with the figures in the hire purchase agreement as hed signed the 
agreement showing he was content to be bound by its terms. The agreement is clear as to 
the cost of the car, the amount of the deposit, the amount being borrowed, the amount of 
interest applied and the monthly payments.
Looking at the evidence, I think this was a pressurised situation and that all the parties 
involved in the agreement and the part exchange of the cars were keen to minimise delay. I 
still think that Close Brothers acted reasonably in asking Mr H to sign and backdate the 
amended SECCI rather than asking him to re-sign all the documentation in order to minimise 
any delays. So, having reconsidered my provisional decision, I still think Close Brothers 
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances and Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
As set out in my reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman