DRN-2736496
The complaint
N a company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked its account and held on to its 
funds pending an investigation. N would like an explanation, its account unblocked and 
access to its funds and compensation.
N is represented by its director Mr P.
What happened
N hold a business account with HSBC.
In September 2019, HSBC carried out a review of Ns account and as a result blocked the 
account. Mr P says he hasnt had access to the money in Ns account since then.
Ns account was unblocked, and N was able to access its money in February 2021.
Mr P says he noticed there was something wrong with Ns account when he went to make a 
bill payment in September 2019 and couldnt.
Mr P complained to HSBC. He was unhappy he was unable to make or receive payments 
and therefore grow his business. They said they were entitled to review the account and 
block it during the review. They also said they were unable to provide Mr P with any further 
information.
Unhappy with their response Mr P complained to our service. Mr P wanted £160,000 for the 
loss of his company, the loss of income and the distress and inconvenience caused.
HSBC said they were still reviewing Ns account and had tried to contact Mr P but their 
letters were returned.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said she thought HSBC were entitled 
to review and block Ns account under their regulatory obligations. She did think that they 
hadnt done enough to progress the review in a timely manner and awarded £200 to N for 
the delay. 
HSBC disagreed with the view. They thought as they had acted in line with their terms and 
conditions and followed their regulatory obligations, they shouldnt have to pay N 
compensation.
They requested an ombudsman decision.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Review and blocking of the account
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Ns account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. Having looked at the evidence I am satisfied that 
this is what HSBC was doing when it reviewed and blocked Ns account. 
Mr P has said he doesnt understand why HSBC blocked the account. 
I appreciate Mr P found this whole episode frustrating, but HSBC are entitled to carry out 
reviews of their customers accounts and to review specific payments under regulations and 
the terms of the account. So, I cant say they have done anything wrong when they blocked 
and reviewed Ns account.
Delay in reviewing the account.
Ive gone on to consider if there were any unnecessary delays in the review and blocking of 
the account. Having looked at the evidence provided I can see HSBC were entitled to do 
what they did as I have already mentioned, but there were delays. 
Ns account was blocked on 29 September 2019 and in March 2020 a note was sent to the 
branch saying they needed a face to face meeting with Mr P. I appreciate that HSBC had 
difficulties from March 2020 in making calls because of Covid 19, However, there is no 
evidence on file of HSBC trying to get in contact with N between September 2019 and March 
2020.
I can see letters were sent to Mr P in April 2020 requiring he contact HSBC to discuss the 
review.  These letters were sent to Ns registered address which is what I would expect. 
However, the letters were returned as N was no longer trading from the address. I think 
HSBC did everything they could from April 2020 to contact N, it was up to N to provide 
HSBC with a viable address for correspondence.  
So, although I accept N should have updated its address with the bank, HSBC delayed 
getting in touch with N. Had HSBC got in touch with N when they first blocked the account N 
would have received the letters and the review would have been progressed without any 
unnecessary delays. The investigator has awarded £200 for this delay. I have considered 
this amount in the light of the impact this delay has had on N.
 
Mr P has said that he has suffered loss of income and he has been unable to carry out his 
business as a result of the block on the account. I am aware that any compensation due is to 
N not Mr P as N is a separate legal entity. I cant consider how inconvenienced Mr P was 
during this process as he is not the customer of the bank. 
However, Mr P has told us that N was not able to carry on trading and wasnt able to pay its 
bills, so I am satisfied that the block on the account had an impact on Ns ability to trade. I 
think £200 fairly reflects this and I wont be asking HSBC to pay anymore.Reasons for the block on the account
Mr P has said he wanted to know why the account was blocked. HSBC isnt required to give 
him specific reasons for blocking the account. So, I cant say HSBC has done anything 
wrong by not giving Mr P this information  as much as hed like to know.
Putting things right
I realise Mr P may be disappointed by my decision, but overall, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I cant say HSBC have acted unreasonably and treated N unfairly when they reviewed 
and blocked its account. I do think there was an unnecessary delay in the review for which I 
have awarded N £200 in compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is I partially uphold this complaint.
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay N £200 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman