DRN-3879730
The complaint
Ms D and Ms D complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) didnt respond to a 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Ms D and Ms D is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In October 2017, Ms D and Ms D purchased a solar panel system (the system) from a 
supplier, which Ill call P. They financed it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. 
In October 2020, the CMC made a claim on Ms D and Ms Ds behalf under section 75 of the 
Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had told Ms D and Ms D the following, which was a 
misrepresentation that induced Ms D and Ms D to enter into the contract:
The system would be self-funding in that the income and savings generated would 
meet or exceed the cost of purchase including loan interest, such that the system 
would pay for itself within the loan term. 
Shawbrook didnt provide a full response to the claim. The CMC then referred a complaint to 
us about Shawbrooks lack of response. Shawbrook explained to us that it didnt agree the 
system had been misrepresented to Ms D and Ms D, but it offered £200 compensation for 
the time it took to respond. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. They didnt think that P had 
misrepresented the system to Ms D and Ms D in the way alleged in the original claim, so 
didnt think Shawbrook acted unfairly by not upholding the claim. But she thought that 
Shawbrook shouldve responded to the claim sooner, and its offer of compensation was a 
fair and reasonable way of compensating Ms D and Ms D for its lack of response.
Ms D and Ms D didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
They were concerned their complaint was not being articulated accurately, since their 
concern was not about whether the system was self-funding, but about the FIT 
payments and savings being much less than set out in the quote. 
Our investigator explained that was a different claim to the one made to Shawbrook. And 
that we could only look at Shawbrooks response to the claim that was made. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
I have the power to consider whether Shawbrooks treated Ms D and Ms D fairly when 
responding to their claim. In doing so I can only consider the claim that was made at the time 
 not to a different claim that it appears Ms D and Ms D say they intended to make. 
Shawbrook was not asked to consider that different claim, so cannot be expected to have 
responded to it.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Ms D and Ms D paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to the transaction. This means that Ms D and Ms D could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P, the 
supplier, in the same way they could have claimed against P. 
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Ms D, Ms D and P, as the supplier, are 
deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
There are high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
So Shawbrook should have treated Ms D and Ms D fairly when it dealt with their s.75 claim.Shawbrooks failure to respond
Shawbrook didnt respond to the claim within a reasonable time. This is likely to have caused 
some distress and/or inconvenience to Ms D and Ms D. So, I think it would be fair for 
Shawbrook to pay some compensation to recognise this. As such, I uphold this complaint. 
Shawbrook has offered to pay Ms D and Ms D £200 compensation. I think that is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Shawbrooks position
Shawbrook has not upheld the claim. So, Ive thought about whether that was fair. 
The claim made to Shawbrook was that P misrepresented the system by telling Ms D and 
Ms D that it would be self-funding in that the income and savings generated would meet or 
exceed the cost of purchase including loan interest, such that the system would pay for itself 
within the loan term. 
Additional points and differing claims mentioned to us by Ms D, Ms D and the CMC were not 
part of the original claim. So, Shawbrook had no reason to consider or respond to those 
points. In light of this, I cant take them into account when deciding whether Shawbrook 
acted fairly when responding to the original claim. 
To decide if the alleged misrepresentation occurred, Ive thought about what Ms D and Ms D 
have said, including their recollection that they were told the system would pay for itself 
within about ten years, and the documents provided to them at the time of sale. Those 
documents include the credit agreement and the personal solar quotation (the quote) 
provided to Ms D and Ms D by P. 
My understanding of Ps sales process at the time is that the quote wouldve been prepared 
and discussed with the customer during the meeting. So, the quote provides important 
evidence of what was discussed. 
The credit agreement set out that the systems cash price was £10,813.00. That Ms D and 
Ms D had paid a £100 deposit, with the rest funded by a loan of £10,713.00. This was 
repayable over 180 monthly repayments of £113.65 each. The total amount payable was 
£20,557.00. Im satisfied that Ms D and Ms D were aware of these figures, given that they 
signed the credit agreement. 
The quote included three tables showing repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 
months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months because this is the length of the loan that 
Ms D and Ms D entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 
monthly payments of £115.55 (slightly more than the actual loan repayments, but close 
enough for the purposes of comparing the costs and benefits). For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. 
It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the indicative monthly loan 
repayment of £115.55, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
The table shows that in years 1 to 11, the estimated monthly return was less than the 
monthly loan repayment. In years 12 to 15 the estimated monthly return is more than the 
monthly loan repayment, but not enough to make back the shortfall from the previous 11 
years. So, I dont think this shows the system would pay for itself within 15 years. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by the end of year 18 the overall benefits that 
Ms D and Ms D could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable 
under the loan agreement. 
Im satisfied that P told Ms D and Ms D that the system would pay for itself by the end of 
year 18. This is supported by the table above. This means that Shawbrook did not act 
unfairly when it did not uphold Ms D and Ms Ds claim. 
Putting things right
If it hasnt already done so, Shawbrook should put things right by paying Ms D and Ms D 
£200 compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook should put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman