DRN-3871194
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly turned down a 
claim on their building warranty policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ds property has a central heating and hot water system which runs on oil. 
Because of this their property has an oil tank which is in the garden and sits on a concrete 
slab. At the back of their garden the ground the falls away and a retaining wall has been built 
to support the back of the garden and the concrete slab the oil tank sits on. 
Mr and Mrs D noticed the wall next to the oil tank was leaning and so was the fence next to 
it. They inspected it further and noticed the concrete slab the oil tank sits on is slipping away 
and therefore likely to collapse. They also had an engineer inspect it who said it hadnt been 
built to the required standard and this was likely to result in it collapsing and leaking oil into 
the wildlife behind their house. 
Mr and Mrs D claimed on their policy with NHBC to fix the issue with the retaining wall and 
concrete slab. NHBC reviewed the claim but turned it down. They said the policy only 
provided cover if the issue related to the main structure and as the concrete slab and 
retaining wall werent part of the main structure then the policy didnt provide cover. Mr and 
Mrs D didnt agree and referred their complaint here. They said as the oil tank was to provide 
the heating and hot water, they thought it should be included as part of the main structure. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He found the 
policy defined main structure as the house, garage or permanent outbuildings. And as the 
concrete slab and retaining wall werent either of these, they didnt think it was covered. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NHBC has assessed the claim under section 3 and section 4 of the policy, which covers 
issue with the property after the first 2 years. As this issue hasnt been reported by Mr and 
Mrs D within the first 2 years since the property was built, Im satisfied these are the correct 
sections for NHBC to assess the claim under.
Section 3 says it will provide cover if there is physical damage to Mr and Mrs Ds home if the 
builder failed to build certain parts to NHBCs standards. The parts covered include 
foundations, walls, load bearing floors and retaining walls if theyre part of or necessary to 
the main structure. 
The policy defines main structure as: 
The Following parts of your home:
Your house, flat or maisonette
In the case of a flat or maisonette, the structure of the building your home is in. 
The garages and permanent outbuildings
Ive considered this when looking at the issue Mr and Mrs D have with the retaining wall and 
concrete slab. The reports on this area show it hasnt been built to the required standard. 
Ive also reviewed the pictures to understand the severity of the issue and can understand 
Mr and Mrs Ds concern and worry about the impact this will have. But Im not able to uphold 
their complaint. 
I say this because the issue is with the retaining wall behind their property. The policy says 
retaining walls will only be covered if theyre necessary to the stability of the main structure. 
And while part of the heating system sits on a concrete slab, supported by the retaining wall, 
the fault is with the retaining wall which isnt necessary for the stability of the main structure. 
Ive also not been provided with anything to show the issue with this wall will affect the main 
structure either. Its also for the same reason Im satisfied section 4 of the policy doesnt 
provide cover either. This is because any issue needs to relate to the main structure as 
defined in the policy. 
And for the reasons explained above Im satisfied the issue with their property doesnt meet 
the policy definition and so their claim isnt one which is covered by the policy. Im therefore 
not able to tell NHBC to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman