DRN-3031454
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1991. Mrs L says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
Mrs L told us she didnt need the policy because her brother was guarantor for her mortgage 
in the event she was unable to make the repayments. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ls. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Mrs Ls mortgage was taken in 1982 and without any PPI. 
The PPI was added nine years later. Ive seen a copy of the application form for the PPI.  
This has been completed by hand and signed and dated by Mrs L. Boxes have been 
ticked in response to some questions about Mrs Ls eligibility for the policy. The monthly 
benefit has been chosen and the monthly premium is quoted. This all suggests to me 
that there was a conversation about the policy and Mrs L chose how the policy would be 
of most benefit to her. And as the mortgage had already been running for some years, 
Mrs L was aware she didnt have to take it but decided to do so at a later date.  
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs L, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about Mrs Ls circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, Mrs L was eligible for the cover 
and although she had existing means she still seems to have had a need for cover  it 
would have paid out alongside her employee benefits she has told us about, and for 
longer. And with reference to Mrs Ls brother being guarantor of the mortgage if she 
wasnt able to make the repayments if she wasnt working, having the policy meant that 
situation was avoidable. 
There was nothing about Mrs Ls employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Although Mrs L says she had two medical conditions some time 
before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Halifax to have 
recommended it. I say this because the first illness Mrs L told us about occurred in her 
childhood and she didnt tell us of any recurrence. The second occurred nearly 20 years 
before she took the policy. Mrs L told us about her treatment and the time she needed off 
from work. We asked Mrs L for more information about this but didnt hear anything back 
from her. So I dont have any reason to think that Mrs L would have thought she would 
have needed to have made a claim on the policy because of that condition or that it was 
uppermost in her mind when she applied for the policy to the extent that she wouldnt 
have taken the policy if she had been aware of the pre-existing or chronic condition 
exclusions. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs L as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mrs L 
would have declined the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So, I think she would have 
still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs L would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ls particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Halifax doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman