DRN-2266652
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with a request to put his account 
on hold and the actions they took after this.
What happened
Mr M had a graduate account with HSBC which was overdrawn in 2013. Mr M was not able 
to manage his account for potentially up to ten years and his mother was given authority to 
run the account. Mr Ms mother went to a branch and says she was told by the branch 
manager that his account would be frozen while he wasnt able to manage it. She was 
given the impression that the account would be put on hold and available for Mr M to use at 
a later date and that no action would be taken in the meantime.
But in June 2014, HSBC wrote to Mr M to confirm that there had been no payments into the 
account since 25 November 2013 and that they were cancelling the overdraft. In an arrears 
letter in July 2014, HSBC asked Mr M to make payment. Further letters were written by 
HSBC to Mr M regarding the status of the account being overdrawn over several months.
Mrs Ms mother contacted the bank to raise a complaint about the calls HSBC were making 
to her which she viewed as harassment and about the guidance that the branch gave her 
about the account. She felt this agreement wasnt being honoured.
In October 2014, HSBC replied to the complaint and apologised for the incorrect information 
which was originally given by the branch manager. They apologised for any distress caused 
by the system generated demand letters which were issued to inform Mr M of the status of 
the account. They offered £100 compensation for their initial error but explained that they 
wouldnt put an account on hold in the way Mrs M was told and that they would be taking 
further action to close the account and pass this to a third party to recover. In December 
2014, HSBC replied to a similar complaint from Mrs M and explained the situation again.
In February 2020 Mr M made a complaint about this and about the impact this had on him. 
He made follow up points on in March 2020. The follow up points include the account being 
frozen/dormant, the harassment of his mother, trying to pay £2,000 to reactive the account 
in August/September 2018 and how HSBC approached his complaint and data protection 
issues.
HSBC responded to these additional points on 17 March 2020. In their letter they explained 
that they accepted responsibility for the branch manager giving Mr M incorrect information 
regarding dormant accounts they apologised if Mr Ms mother felt harassed by the letters 
sent out. They also confirmed that the £100 gift was not a bribe but was to compensate for 
the initial error.
In addition, HSBC confirmed that they were unable to accept the £2,000 deposit as the 
account had already been closed by this point. 
A complaint was brought to our service as Mr M was not satisfied with the outcome. HSBC 
responded to our service to say that where Mr Ms mother hadnt accepted the initial 
compensation that had been offered  they were now willing to offer £100 to Mr M to 
compensate him for the impact this had on him.
The investigator who looked at the case had said that HSBC admitted they did give incorrect 
information regarding Mr Ms account being able to remain dormant initially. But they didnt 
believe HSBC should take additional action. Apart from the initial error, they had been clear 
in the future communications with Mr M and his mother about what would happen if regular 
credits were not paid into the account. Whilst £1,000 had been paid into the account, £700 
had later been withdrawn from the account and this wouldnt count as regular credits to 
maintain the account.
HSBC accepted the view but Mr M has asked for this to be looked at by an Ombudsman as 
he feels HSBC have acted disingenuously throughout the whole process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, I have arrived at the same conclusions as the investigator  and for very
much the same reasons. Mr M has made a number of points to both HSBC and this service 
and Ive considered and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services 
role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable here.
All sides accept that there was an error during the initial visit to the branch when the branch 
manager told Mr M that the account could be frozen. So the right thing to do here would 
have been for HSBC to apologise, recognise the impact this had and explain what the actual 
situation was  if Mr Ms mother was given the guidance she should have been.
Thats what HSBC did here. They advised Mr Ms mother, on several occasions, that they 
couldnt freeze or put his account on hold in the way shed been led to believe and that they 
would be treating this account like any other  and that included taking further action to 
recover what was owed where payments hadnt been made for some time. That was what Id 
expect to see here.
So HSBC were entitled to send the final demand letter that they did. And, when this wasnt 
satisfied they were also entitled to take the actions this detailed, which is why - once the final 
demand payment was not paid - the account was closed, and Mr M could not pay £2,000 
into the account at a later date. That means that here, it wouldnt be fair for me to suggest 
that HSBC take any further action in terms of how theyve handled this account. 
I understand that Mr M felt that his mother was harassed due to the volume of letters which 
were sent out. Mr Ms mother complained about this and HSBC took steps to try and limit 
their communications. They noted not to make telephone calls, but equally they have to 
follow regulatory requirements to send out information for accounts which are in arrears. 
Thats what they did here and I dont think they acted unfairly in doing so. Letters like this will 
sometimes be worrying to receive and read, but they have to be sent so the bank can tell a 
customer what will happen, or has happened, to an account. 
Mr M has also raised concerns with the fact that HSBC passed information about him and 
his account to other parties. This service isnt here to make a formal finding on whether a 
business has complied with the relevant data protection legislation  thats the role of the 
Information Commissioners Office. But in looking into this, HSBC has explained why they 
did what they did here and that explanation is a reasonable one that satisfies me theyve acted fairly in this respect.
That said, their offer to pay Mr M £100 to compensate for the impact their guidance wouldve 
had back in 2014 is a fair one. I realise that Mr M views HSBCs original offer to his mother 
as bribery but, I think they were just trying to make a gesture of goodwill to her to recognise 
the trouble she had been caused. In any event, this service doesnt have the power to make 
an award to anyone but Mr M, who is the person eligible to complain here. And I feel that 
£100 is fair for the impact this would have had on him.
I dont think HSBC have acted disingenuously through the process as they have tried to put 
things right when they have made a mistake, such as apologising for the wrong information 
the branch manager gave and have taken steps such as not contacting Mr M and his mother 
by telephone. They have replied to either Mr M or Mrs Ms mother in a timely way and have 
tried to address each point Mr M raised with them.  
So, overall here, while everyone accepts that HSBC gave the wrong information back in 
2014  I dont think that means that they should now do everything that Mr M wants them to 
do. For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied that they were entitled to do what they 
did with the account here and that they acted fairly in doing so.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc have already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman