DRN-4466224
Complaint
Mrs R complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) unfairly entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with her. Shes said the monthly payments to the agreement were not 
affordable and so she shouldnt have been accepted for it. 
Background
In August 2022, Startline provided Mrs R with finance for a used car. The cash price of the 
vehicle was £5,647.00. Mrs R didnt pay a deposit and entered into a 56-month hire-
purchase agreement with Startline for the entire purchase price of £5,647.00. 
The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £2,838.90 (made up of interest of £2,828.90 
and a credit facility fee of £10, which needed to be paid if Mrs R exercised her option to 
purchase the vehicle) at the end of the term. So the total amount to be repaid of £8,485.90 
was due to be repaid in 55 monthly instalments of £148.70 followed by 1 final monthly 
payment of £158.70. 
Mrs Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think that Startline 
had done anything wrong or treated Mrs R unfairly. So he didnt recommend that Mrs Rs 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs R disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Rs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mrs Rs complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Startline needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Startline needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether  
Mrs R could make her payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend to her. And 
if the checks Startline carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider what reasonable 
and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Startline says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Mrs R. During this assessment, Mrs R provided details of her monthly 
income which was validated by obtaining a payslip. Startline says it also carried out credit 
searches on Mrs R which showed that she did have some defaulted accounts. 
But six of the seven defaulted accounts had already been settled. In terms of active 
commitments, Mrs R did have an unsecured loan with payments of around £120 and five 
credit cards which it says were being well maintained. Startline also says Mrs R had a 
previous hire-purchase agreement with larger monthly payments that had been settled and 
two mortgages. 
And as I understand it, Startline argues that when the amount Mrs R already owed plus a 
reasonable amount for Mrs Rs living expenses, based on average data, were deducted from 
her monthly income the monthly payments were still affordable. On the other hand, Mrs R 
says that these payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mrs R and Startline have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that I dont think that the checks Startline carried out did go far 
enough. In my view, given the number of historic defaults that Mrs R had, I dont think that it 
was reasonable to conclude that these were not relevant just because they had been settled. 
And I think that the presence of these defaults meant that Startline needed to take further 
steps to get an appreciation of Mrs Rs actual living costs. I dont think that it was reasonable 
to simply rely on average data when Mrs Rs defaults did not indicate that she was an 
average customer. 
As Startline didnt carry out sufficient checks, I have gone on to decide what I think Startline 
is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from Mrs R. Given the 
circumstances here, I would have expected Startline to have had a reasonable 
understanding about Mrs Rs regular living expenses as well as her income and existing 
credit commitments (which it already had). 
To be clear, notwithstanding what our investigator has said, Im not going to carry out a 
forensic analysis of Mrs Rs bank statements in order to assess whether the loan payments 
were affordable. Im simply going to consider what Startline is likely to have done if it tried to 
obtain the missing information I think it should have done here. 
Startline could have if it wanted to have asked for bank statements, or it could have instead 
asked for copies of bills etc to build this picture of Mrs Rs living expenses. I think this is an 
important point for me to make because its clear that Miss R was moving funds across a 
number of different accounts and I simply wouldnt expect a lender to go searching through a 
customers finances in this way for this type of lending.
Having considered what Startline needed to get a better understanding of, rather than what a 
forensic analysis of Mrs Rs financial position would show, I think that Startline is likely to 
have concluded that when Mrs Rs regular living expenses and the credit commitments on 
the credit search were deducted from her income, she did have the funds, at the time at 
least, to sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. I appreciate that this might not accurately reflect Mrs Rs actual position at the time. For 
example, I know that Mrs Rs husband had lost his job and this led to her taking on some of 
his commitments. I also know that Mrs R says that she went on to miss payments on her 
credit card. Im sorry to hear that this is the case.
But what I have to consider is whether Startline ought to have factored this into its decision 
on whether to lend to Mrs R. And the truth is Startline didnt know about what Mrs R has told 
us about. And given this wont have shown up in independent searches either, Startline 
could only have found out about the true position in relation to Mrs Rs financial 
circumstances if she had volunteered this information. 
As Mrs R chose to purchase a car at the time, which she was looking to obtain finance 
through this agreement to do, it is difficult for me to conclude that she would have declared 
the extent of her financial position, particularly as she didnt do so. 
So having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that the available information makes 
it appear, at least, as though Mrs R had sufficient funds in order for the monthly payments to 
this agreement to be made in a sustainable manner. And in my view, it is unlikely  and less 
likely than not  that Startline would have declined to lend if it had done further checks along 
the line of what I think that it needed to find out here.
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Startlines checks 
before entering into this hire-purchase agreement with Mrs R did go far enough, Ive not 
been persuaded that reasonable and proportionate checks would have prevented Startline 
from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with her. 
This means Ive not been persuaded that Startline acted unfairly towards Mrs R when it lent 
to her and Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for 
Mrs R. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel 
her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman