DRN-3137566
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the settlement Great Lakes Insurance SE has offered them for
a curtailment claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 2 January 2020, Mr and Mrs H booked a package driving holiday abroad to a country Ill
call N. They were due to travel between 10 March and 13 April 2020. On 7 January 2020,
they took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker, which was underwritten by
Great Lakes.
Mr and Mrs H travelled abroad as planned on 10 March 2020. However, on 11 March 2020,
the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the
Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly known as the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office) advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. And on
23 March 2020, the UK government imposed wide-ranging restrictions on movement,
commonly referred to as lockdown. This government announcement included an instruction
to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons. Ns government announced
a national lockdown, which began on 26 March 2020.
As a result, Mr and Mrs Hs package holiday had to be cut short and they were required to
isolate in hotels in N between 24 March and 10 April 2020, when they were able to get a
flight back to the UK. Their package provider refunded the lost costs of their pre-booked trip.
But Mr and Mrs H were left out of pocket for their hotel costs and food costs while they were
in isolation. So they made a claim for the costs associated with their hotel stay.
Great Lakes concluded that Mr and Mrs Hs claim wasnt covered. Thats because it said the
curtailment section of the policy didnt cover their situation. And it said that they hadnt taken
out an optional Travel Disruption Extension (TDE), which wouldve covered their situation.
But as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to pay Mr and Mrs H 50% of their hotel costs (less the
excess). It didnt agree to pay a contribution towards their food costs though, as it said theyd
have always incurred these costs, regardless of being in isolation.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with Great Lakes offer and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the
curtailment section of the policy covered Mr and Mrs Hs situation. And she agreed that they
hadnt paid for the TDE. So she concluded that Great Lakes offer was generous, given it
couldve turned down the whole claim.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They said theyd tried to get in touch with Great Lakes on
numerous occasions while they were isolating in N and after their return. But it had taken
months for Great Lakes to respond. They said they hadnt been offered the TDE  and they
had bought comprehensive cover, thinking it would cover everything. They told us that other
parties whod travelled with them had had their costs refunded in full by their insurers.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 October 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought Great Lakes offer was fair. I said:
First, I need to make it clear that this decision will only consider whether Great Lakes offer
of settlement is fair. I appreciate Mr and Mrs H feel that they werent offered the TDE when
they were sold the policy. However, Great Lakes didnt sell Mr and Mrs H their policy and so
it isnt responsible for the way the policy was sold. Mr and Mrs H took out the insurance
policy through a broker. So if Mr and Mrs H feel that the broker mis-sold their policy, theyd
need to make a separate complaint to their broker about that particular issue.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Hs policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether Great
Lakes treated them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs H found themselves in was completely
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the insurance was
purchased in January 2020, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19
couldnt have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs H are limited by the terms,
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy says that Great Lakes will pay for a policyholders unused curtailment
costs if they have to cut short their trip because of one of a list of specific insured events.
The Cutting Short your Trip and trip Interruption section of Mr and Mrs Hs policy says Great
Lakes will pay such costs if a trip is cancelled for one of the following reasons:
Curtailment:
a) an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling companion or any
person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip.
b) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or
being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional, or advisory
capacity).
c) accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire affecting your home, occurring during your
trip, when the loss relating to your home is in excess of £1,500 or your presence is
required by the Police in connection with such events.
Trip Interruption:
a) the death, imminent demise, or hospitalisation due to serious accident or illness, of a
close relative;
b) accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire affecting your home during your trip, when
the loss relating to your home is in excess of £1,500 or your presence is required by the
Police in connection with such events.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Hs trip wasnt cut short for any of the above reasons.
This means their claim isnt covered under the Cutting Short your Trip and Trip Interruption
section of their policy. Ive also noted that Mr and Mrs H arent claiming for their unused
costs following the cutting short of their trip (although they only actually returned to the UK
three days earlier than planned). It seems at least some of these costs have been paid by
their package provider. Mr and Mrs H are instead claiming for the additional costs they had
to pay out for the hotel they isolated in. Additional costs simply arent covered by the CuttingShort your Trip and Trip Interruption section of the policy.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Hs insurance policy. But in this
case, I dont think they held the relevant TDE cover which potentially wouldve paid a benefit
in the circumstances they found themselves in.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy includes a term which excludes cover if a policyholder travels against
FCDO advice. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had
clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to
claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might
think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms
and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Great
Lakes to pay anything more here.
I say that because in addition to the fact that the Cutting Short your Trip and Trip
Interruption section of the policy doesnt cover additional costs, it also includes a specific list
of things Great Lakes doesnt cover. This list includes the following term:
prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or amendment of the
booked trip due to Government action.
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr and Mrs Hs claim. But on
23 March 2020, the UK government had imposed lockdown, which meant travel out of the
local area was severely restricted. And on 26 March 2020, a strict lockdown had begun in N.
Travel restrictions remained in place in both N and the UK for the duration of Mr and Mrs Hs
planned holiday dates.
I think then that a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and
government restrictions both in N and the UK  are all likely to have impacted to some
degree on Mr and Mrs Hs decision to isolate in a hotel and ultimately cut short their trip.
So not only are the reasons for the curtailment of Mr and Mrs Hs holiday not covered as
listed, insured events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above
would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Hs position, as I appreciate theyve been left out of pocket.
But as Ive outlined, I simply dont think the circumstances of their claim were covered. This
means that they werent entitled to any settlement under the terms of their contract with
Great Lakes. It wouldve been contractually entitled to turn down their claim. However, in this
case, as a gesture of goodwill, Great Lakes has made an offer to settle 50% of the
accommodation costs after the excesses have been deducted. I think this is more than
reasonable in the circumstances.
Its also clear that Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the delay in Great Lakes responding to
their claim. I can see that it did take some months for Great Lakes to make its ultimate offer.
But Great Lakes did initially respond to the claim around eight weeks after Mr and Mrs H had
returned home. Given the extraordinary situation Covid-19 presented to insurers and
policyholders, I think it was inevitable that there would be some delays in the assessment of
claims. And I dont think the delay in giving an initial decision to Mr and Mrs H was
unreasonable enough that any compensation is warranted. 
Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs H have said that similar costs to those theyve claimed have 
been paid out by the insurers of other members of their party. However, insurers provide 
different levels of cover and may insure different risks. So I cant fairly direct Great Lakes to 
pay the remainder of their claim on this basis.Overall, I currently find that Great Lakes has treated Mr and Mrs H fairly. Im satisfied its
offer is reasonable.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Great Lakes had nothing more to add.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept my provisional decision. They said that theyd assumed that the 
broker of their policy and the insurer were one and the same entity. It was only when theyd 
brought the complaint to us that theyd learned that Great Lakes underwrote the policy. They 
said they hadnt claimed for curtailment, as their travel company largely met the costs of the 
unused part of their trip. Their claim had been for the additional hotel costs and for hot meals 
from the hotel kitchen. Finally, they said they hadnt decided to isolate in a hotel room, 
theyd acted on a directive from Ns government.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still find that Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy was sold by a broker and was accordingly branded. But Great Lakes 
underwrote the policy benefits and was responsible for assessing and settling claims under 
the contract. Mr and Mrs Hs complaint turns on whether or not their claim has been fairly 
settled. Great Lakes was responsible for assessing the claim and making the settlement 
offer and thats why this complaint has been considered against it. I appreciate Mr and Mrs H 
feel that they werent offered the chance to buy optional add-on covers when they took out 
their policy. But as Ive set out above, this point relates to the sale of the policy by the broker. 
Great Lakes wasnt responsible for the way the policy was sold. And so Mr and Mrs H would 
need to complain to the broker about that issue separately.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs H werent claiming for the unused portion of their holiday  and 
indeed, Great Lakes offer is for 50% of their additional hotel costs. I do think the holiday 
theyd planned was effectively cut short though when they were required to isolate in the 
hotel room. It remains the case that Mr and Mrs Hs claim simply wasnt covered by any 
section of the cover they held and that Great Lakes was entitled, under the contract terms, to 
turn the whole claim down. It didnt do so though and given Im satisfied the trip was 
effectively curtailed, I think it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to consider their claim 
under the curtailment section of the policy. 
Overall then, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, Ive decided that Great Lakes offer 
is fair and reasonable. This means I dont think it needs to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman