DRN-3535964
The complaint
Mr K complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim he
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr K booked accommodation in a country Ill call T. He was due to travel
between 20 March and 3 April 2020. Mr K took out a single trip travel insurance policy to
cover his stay in December 2019. He paid for optional Travel Disruption Extension (TDE)
cover.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a
pandemic. And on 14 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office
(FCDO) advised against all but essential travel to T. On the same day, lockdown was
announced in T.
On this basis, Mr K cancelled his trip. His airline refunded the cost of his flights. But the
accommodation provider declined to refund Mr Ks booking cost. It said that the
accommodation had remained available for Mr Ks use and that due to Covid-19 flight
cancellations, it couldnt re-let the accommodation. So Mr K made a claim for his share of
the cost of his pre-booked accommodation.
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said that while cancellation due to changes in FCDO
advice was covered by the TDE, the policy only covered irrecoverable losses. It considered
that the accommodation provider had a legal duty to refund Mr Ks booking costs and that
therefore, Mr K ought to be able to recover his costs through the provider.
Mr K was unhappy with Great Lakes position and so he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She considered the
accommodation providers booking terms and conditions made it clear that cancellation
costs were non-refundable. So she was satisfied that Mr K had been unable to recover his
share of the accommodation cost. And she recommended that Great Lakes should settle Mr
Ks claim and pay interest on the settlement.
Great Lakes disagreed. It said that the accommodation had been booked through a UK 
provider. It said that Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) guidance had placed a
responsibility on accommodation providers to reimburse costs, so it didnt see why Mr K
couldnt recover his costs directly from the provider. It said that the booking terms and
conditions wouldnt be relevant to bookings of this nature. And as T had been in lockdown
for the duration of Mr Ks booking, it failed to see how the accommodation had been
available.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 May 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think itd been fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr Ks claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
policy terms, relevant law and guidance and the available evidence, to decide whether Great
Lakes treated Mr K fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Ks
contract with Great Lakes. Its common ground that Mr K paid an additional premium for the
TDE, which provides extended cancellation cover if the FCDO advises against all but
essential travel to a policyholders destination. The policy states that Great Lakes will pay a
policyholders irrecoverable, unused travel and accommodation costs.
Theres no dispute that Mr Ks trip had to be cancelled because the FCDO advised against
travel to T. So Mr Ks claim falls within the scope of policy cover. However, Great Lakes
states that Mr Ks accommodation provider is responsible for refunding his booking cost and
that therefore, his loss is recoverable. Ive thought about this very carefully.
Mr Ks booking contract with the accommodation provider states:
Any client wishing to cancel after the deposit or final balance has been paid will forfeit
monies already paid.
Ive also seen a letter from the accommodation provider dated 25 March 2020. This says:
The clients decided not to travel to the flat due to the FCO advising against travel to (T).
These conditions imposed are beyond our control. We will be unable to re book the
apartment since flights to T are currently being cancelled. Therefore, we are unable to make
any refund.
In my view then, the booking contract terms Ive referred to above make it clear that the
accommodation provider will not refund the booking costs if a holidaymaker cancels their
booking. Thats because the terms state that if a client cancels after paying the final balance,
theyll forfeit any monies paid. The evidence suggests that Mr K cancelled the trip. As such,
it seems that contractually, Mr K wasnt entitled to a refund of his accommodation costs. And
Im satisfied the accommodation providers letter demonstrates that Mr K wasnt able to
recover his booking costs through it.
It's clear that Great Lakes strongly considers that following a CMA statement in response to
the pandemic, the accommodation providers booking terms and conditions are no longer
relevant. Great Lakes hasnt set out which statement its referring to, but I think its likely its
referring to the CMAs statement on Covid-19, which includes the following:
In some circumstances, due to lock down laws, a contract cannot go ahead as agreed or at
all, and is therefore 'frustrated'. A contract will be frustrated as a matter of law if, due to no
fault of the parties, something happens after the contract was entered into which means it
can no longer be performed at all or performance would be radically different to what was
agreed. As a result, the contract comes to an end and, where consumers have paid money
in advance for services or goods that they have yet to receive, they will generally be entitled
to obtain a refund.
Great Lakes seem to now seek to specifically rely on the CMAs Statement to turn down Mr
Ks claim. On my understanding, Great Lakes position seems to be that the contract
between Mr K and the accommodation provider has been frustrated. And so Great Lakes
appears to consider that Mr K may legally be entitled to a refund from the provider,
regardless of the booking terms and conditions.
However, in my view, the fact that Mr K may potentially entitled to a refund isnt the same asactually obtaining one. Ive noted that in October 2020, the industry regulator, the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to insurers in dealing with policyholders who
havent been able to obtain a refund from their travel provider. This guidance is called
Finalised guidance: Cancellations and refunds: helping consumers with rights and routes to
refunds. The guidance was extended in April 2021 and is effective until revoked or until the
exceptional circumstances regarding Covid-19 have ended.
The FCA guidance acknowledges that insurance claims are governed by the policy terms
and then goes on to provide an indication of how the FCA expects the terms of travel
insurance policies to be interpreted. In particular, theres relevant guidance relating to the
interpretation of policy terms which require policyholders to mitigate their loss set out in
sections 3.5 and 3.6 of the April 2021 document. These say:
3.5 Any potential claim on an insurance policy will depend on the terms of the policy.
However, where an insurance provider requires policyholders to demonstrate or take
reasonable steps to mitigate a financial loss under the terms of the policy, consumers
should not have to go to unreasonable lengths to do this. For example, where a
travel provider is resisting a refund, and the consumer is unlikely to have a valid
section 75 claim, a consumer should not be expected to take more than reasonable
steps to pursue the refund. What is reasonable will depend on the circumstances in
each case.
3.6 For example, a consumer might be seeking a refund after a hotel has cancelled their
booking. We think it could be reasonable to expect a consumer to have pursued a
claim up to a point where it appears from the correspondence (including the absence
of replies) that a refund is unlikely to be forthcoming, or there is insufficient indication
of when it may be expected so as to give rise to sufficient uncertainty as to whether
there may be a refund. This will depend on the facts and circumstances  but where
customer can demonstrate that they have made several unsuccessful attempts to
obtain refund from the hotel, it might be unreasonable to expect them to do more. We
would generally view it as unreasonable to expect that a consumer would need to go
to court to recover their money.
So it seems to me that the FCA has given a clear indication that insurers shouldnt require
policyholders to go to unreasonable lengths to mitigate their losses. And in this case, given
the accommodation provider has specifically stated that it will not refund Mr Ks costs, I think
it would be unreasonable to expect him to take further action to recover his losses.
Ive also noted that the policy says:
We are entitled to take over the defence, or settlement of any claim, recover expenses or
compensation from any other third parties involved at any time, or take legal action in your
name or in the name of anyone else claiming under this policy.
It seems to me then that if Great Lakes considers theres a good legal chance of recovering
a refund from the accommodation provider due to the frustration of the contract, the terms of
the policy mean its open to Great Lakes to attempt legal recovery itself, to recover the
monies it will have paid out to Mr K in settlement of this claim.
Overall then, in these circumstances, I currently think that Mr K has shown that he hasnt
been able to recover the monies he paid for his accommodation. And I dont think its fair for
Great Lakes to require Mr K to pursue these costs further. So Im planning to find that Great
Lakes didnt treat Mr K fairly when it turned down his claim. Im also intending to direct Great
Lakes to pay Mr Ks claim for 50% of the accommodation booking costs, together with
interest at an annual rate of 8% interest.I asked both parties to send me any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider.
Mr K had nothing to add.
It appears that Great Lakes received my provisional decision but didnt respond with any 
new information or comments by the deadline I gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or information, I see no reason to change 
my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to settle Mr Ks claim for 50% of the total
accommodation cost. I also direct Great Lakes to add interest to the settlement at
an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman