DRN-3290591
The complaint
Mr A complains about Tesco Personal Finance PLC (TPF) and their decision to provide him 
with a loan which he feels was unaffordable.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr A applied for a loan with TPF. This loan was approved, and M A 
received a capital amount of £10,000 with a monthly repayment of £420.06 over a 24-month 
term. Mr A was able to maintain payments to the account until the final payment in 
November 2019, where he made a token payment of £1 before settling the loan the following 
month. 
In 2020, Mr A reviewed his financial position. And having done so, he thought the loan TPF 
provided was unaffordable. So, he raised a complaint. 
Mr A didnt think TPF had completed reasonable checks before approving the loan. And he 
thought if they had, they wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to him. So, he thought 
TPF had lent to him responsibly and he wanted a refund of any interest and charges applied 
to the loan, plus statutory interest. And he wanted any adverse data reported to his credit file 
to be removed.
TPF responded and didnt agree. They thought the checks they completed were 
proportionate to the loan that Mr A was provided. And the information these checks 
provided, coupled with the information Mr A declared on his application, suggested the loan 
was unaffordable. They also thought Mr As management of the account after the loan was 
provided supported this. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr A 
remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought TPF had acted 
fairly when assessing Mr As application based on the information hed declared. And from 
this, Mr A had stated he was living with his parents and pay £0 towards rent each month. 
Our investigator explained Mr As credit file supported this, with no utilities or mortgage 
accounts being reported. So, considering Mr As declared monthly income against his 
outstanding credit and monthly commitments, our investigator didnt think there was any 
information to suggest the loan was affordable. And because of this, they didnt think they 
could say TPF had acted irresponsibly when lending to Mr A. So, they didnt think TPF 
needed to do anything more.
Mr A didnt agree. He disputed our investigators belief that hed made overpayments during 
the lifetime of the loan. And he provided evidence to show he was only able to make a token 
payment of £1 in November 2019, which he thought showed the loan was unaffordable to 
him. So, he maintained his belief TPF had acted irresponsibly. As Mr A didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr A. I appreciate Mr A fell 
into financial difficulty towards the end of 2019, which meant he was unable to meet his 
monthly repayment for the loan provided by TPF. So, I can understand why, when Mr A 
reviewed his finances, he would look at the loan TPF provided and feel it was unaffordable 
as he was unable to meet the repayments for the full duration of the loan. And because of 
this, I can understand why Mr A would be upset with this and feel as though TPF should 
compensate him accordingly.
But for me to say TPF have lent to Mr A irresponsibly, Id need to be satisfied that TPF failed 
to carry out proportionate checks at the time of application. Or, if I think they did, that they 
failed to assess the information available to them at that time fairly. And that if they had done 
so, they wouldve made a different lending decision. Unfortunately, in this situation I dont 
think thats the case.
When a lender such as TPF lends to a customer, there are no set amount of checks they 
need to complete before doing so. Instead, there is an expectation that the checks they 
make are proportionate to the loan a customer is being provided against the income they 
receive and their individual circumstance. In this situation, Mr A declared his income as 
£1450 a month after tax which is around £20,000 a year. And he provided with a £10,000 
loan. While the loan value was around 50% of Mr As annual salary, Mr A declared his living 
status as living with parents with £0 being paid towards any rent. So, without any financial 
commitments attributed to being a homeowner, I think TPF have acted fairly, and 
proportionately, when making their decision to lend based on the information Mr A declared 
alongside the information reported to his credit file.
Ive then thought about whether TPF assessed the information they had available to them 
fairly. I recognise Mr A has stated he was paying £500 rent at the time, as well as £200 in 
household bills before his credit commitments and living expenses were considered. But I 
cant see that Mr A declared this in his loan application. Instead, I can see that Mr A declared 
no housing expenses, including rent or utility bills. And I can see from Mr As credit file that 
there were no utility bills reported at the time he made the application, nor any mortgage 
accounts or similar. So, I dont think TPF acted unfairly when relying on the information Mr A 
declared and I wouldnt have expected them to request further information because of this. 
Within the application, Mr A declared he had one loan and one credit card outstanding, with 
a total existing debt of £5,000. I can see TPF considered this against the information 
reported to Mr As credit file at the time, which showed he was paying £477 a month to the 
outstanding loan, with a minimum repayment of around £39 to the credit card he held. So, 
TPF totalled Mr As outstanding monthly commitments to be £647, as they also included 
£131 that they attributed to household costs despite Mr A stated his rent was £0 per month, 
which I think shows TPF acting in Mr As best interest to consider unexpected costs.
When this £647 is subtracted from Mr As declared monthly income of £1,450, he was left 
with £803 a month disposable income. So, when TPFs monthly repayment of £430 was 
subtracted, Mr A wouldve still been left with £373 disposable income a month, which I think 
is a reasonable and affordable amount. 
I can see TPF also considered Mr As management of his existing accounts reported to his credit file at the time of the application. And I can see there were no defaulted accounts, 
CCJs or late/missed payments reported in the previous 12 months before the loan was 
taken out. So, I dont think there was any information available to TPF that suggested Mr A 
was struggling financially or that he would be unable to afford the loan. Because of this, Im 
unable to say TPF acted unreasonably when approving Mr As loan application.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for. And I appreciate Mr A fell into 
financial difficulty while the loan with TPF was open and that he did miss his final payment, 
which has been reported to his credit file. But I can see Mr A opened several new credit 
accounts after he was provided the loan by TPF, which wouldve no doubt increase his 
monthly financial commitments. And TPF wouldve had no way of being able to foresee this, 
nor are they responsible for other lenders providing Mr A with credit after they provided their 
loan. 
What I can see if Mr A was able to maintain repayments to the loan from almost the entire 
loan term. And it was only when Mr A took out further credit that he was unable to meet his 
payments with TPF, which they arent at fault for. As Mr A was unable to meet his monthly 
repayment in November 2019, and was only able to make a token payment, I dont think 
TPF have acted unfairly when reporting this to Mr As credit file. TPF have an obligation to 
accurately report the way a customer manages their account so other lenders can accurately 
assess the risk of further lending. 
So, while I appreciate Mr As the difficult financial situation Mr A found himself and the upset 
this caused him, I dont think this resulted from anything TPF did wrong. Because of this, I 
dont think TPF need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Tesco Personal 
Finance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman