DRN-3411924
The complaint
Mr D complains about TSB Bank plc and their decision to close his current account. 
What happened
Mr D held a current about with TSB, which was opened in 1997. This account was more 
recently used to receive Mr Ds pension credits from several providers.
On 4 March 2021, TSB wrote to Mr D explaining they needed to speak to him to clarify some 
information relating to his account, to ensure they were meeting their regulatory regulations. 
Within this letter, they requested a response by 25 March.
TSB didnt hear from Mr D, and they sent another chaser letter on 15 March. This explained 
Mr Ds account may be blocked or closed if he failed to reply by 25 March. Again, TSB 
received no response.
So, on 18 November, TSB sent Mr D their notice informing him that his account would be 
closed on 18 January 2022. Mr D received this letter and spoke to TSB on 6 December, who 
confirmed their position wouldnt be changing. Mr D was unhappy about this, so he raised a 
complaint. 
Mr D didnt think it was fair for TSB to close his account. Nor did he think it was reasonable 
for them not to tell him why. Mr D explained the notice gave him little time to arrange for his 
pensions to be credited into another account and that, due to his health, he was unable to 
travel back to the UK to arrange this. So, he wanted TSB to compensate him for the upset 
and inconvenience the account closure had caused him.
TSB responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly when closing Mr Ds 
account as theyd given him the required amount of notice. And although they arent required 
to do so, they explained the account had been closed as Mr D no longer resided within the 
UK and that their terms and conditions allowed them to take this decision. So, they didnt 
think they needed to do anything more. Mr D remained unhappy with this response, so he 
asked our service to investigate his complaint further.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought TSB had acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account when closing it. And that theyd 
provided Mr D with reasonable notice. They also thought TSB had given Mr D two 
opportunities to provide further information in March and had seen no evidence that Mr D 
had responded. Because of the above, they didnt think TSB needed to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree. He explained the two letters sent in March hadnt been received. So, he 
had no way of providing the information TSB requested. And he says when he changed his 
address on TSBs system later that year, TSB didnt make him aware further information was 
required. So, he maintained his belief the account had been closed unfairly. And he didnt 
think the notice TSB sent gave him enough time to arrange his finances, which had impacted 
his health and him financially. So, he wanted compensation to recognise this. As Mr D didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr D. I appreciate Mr D was 
living abroad when he received TSBs notice of closure. And as Mr D was living abroad, the 
notice itself may have taken longer to reach him than if hed been living in the UK. So, I 
recognise why Mr D would feel as though he had less than a reasonable amount of time to 
arrange for his pension credits to be paid into another account. And as Mr D was living 
abroad, and unable to return to the UK for health reasons, I understand how inconvenient 
this wouldve been. So, I do appreciate why Mr D would feel as though he should be 
compensated for this.
But for me to say TSB should compensate Mr D, Id first need to be satisfied theyve done 
something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that they acted outside of the account terms 
and conditions when closing the account and providing Mr D with notice of this. Or, if I think 
TSB did act within these, that it was unfair for them to do so. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
Ive first looked at the terms and conditions of the account Mr D held. On page 5, these 
terms explain that to hold a current account with TSB, a customer must be resident in the 
UK. The terms then go onto explain that TSB can end the agreement, and close the 
account, if a customer moves abroad. And the terms state that if TSB take this decision, they 
will write to a customer two months in advance. 
Mr D doesnt dispute that hes now living abroad. And TSB have confirmed this is the reason 
for the closure of the account. So, I think TSB have acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account when taking this decision and because of this, I cant say theyve 
done anything wrong. 
I appreciate Mr D has disputed receiving the two letters TSB sent in March, where they 
requested more information. And he feels if hed received these letters, he couldve provided 
information that wouldve allowed his account to remain open. But I can see these letters 
were sent to Mr Ds previous address TSB held on file. And Mr D has confirmed his daughter 
received any correspondence addressed to Mr D at this address and forwarded it to him 
electronically. So, I cant say TSB did anything wrong here, nor am I able to hold them 
responsible for any issues their may have been in the delivery of these letters. 
And even so, I dont think its likely that Mr D receiving these letters and providing additional 
information wouldve changed TSBs eventual decision to close the account. As Ive 
explained above, the terms and conditions of the account state a customer must be a 
resident of the UK. And its not in dispute that Mr D wasnt. Ive also seen the document from 
TSBs review of Mr Ds account, completed in March 2021, which sets out TSBs decision to 
close the account due to Mr Ds location. So, I think Mr D wouldve found himself in the same 
position, whether those letters sent in March had been received.
Ive then thought about whether TSB gave Mr D reasonable notice of their intention to close 
his account. And I think they did. The terms and conditions state TSB must give a customer 
two months notice. And I can see TSB issued their letter on 18 November 2021, explaining the account would be closed on 18 January 2022, which is two months later. So, I think Mr D 
was given the required notice.
Im aware Mr D doesnt think this is fair, as he didnt receive the notice until the beginning of 
December due to the delays in postage caused by him living abroad. But I cant say this 
delay is the fault or responsibility of TSB. And Mr D still had six weeks to arrange for his 
pension credits to be switched to another account after he spoke to TSB on 6 December and 
I think this is a reasonable amount of time. Thats not to say I dont recognise the 
inconvenience Mr D was caused by the need to do so unexpectedly, or how this was made 
worse by his inability to return to the UK due to his health. But I dont think this has resulted 
from a mistake has TSB has made, or anything theyve decided to do unfairly. And because 
of this, I dont think TSB need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for. And I appreciate this doesnt 
compensate Mr D for the inconvenience hes experienced that he attributes to the actions of 
TSB. But I hope my decision communicates clearly why I dont think TSB have done 
anything wrong and provides Mr D some closure to his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman