DRN-3190553
The complaint
Mr M complains Lloyds Bank PLC is reporting adverse information about him unfairly and 
that incorrect information is being displayed on his online banking.
What happened
Mr M has a credit card issued by Lloyds Bank and he uses its online banking too.
In 2018 Mr M started complaining that the information displayed on his online banking about 
his credit card  including, for example, his balance and the amount of credit he still had  
wasnt always correct. He sent evidence of this.
In November 2019 Mr M complained to Lloyds Bank saying that it had reported the fact that 
hed gone over his credit limit when this wasnt the case. Mr M was unhappy that this meant 
inaccurate adverse information was appearing on his credit file. Lloyds Bank investigated 
and agreed that it had reported inaccurate information and said it would arrange for 
amendments to be made.
In February 2020 Mr M complained to Lloyds Bank again saying that inaccurate adverse 
information was still appearing on his credit file. Lloyds Bank looked into why and, having 
done so, said that Mr M had in fact gone over his limit so it wouldnt be right to make the 
amendments. Mr M complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and agreed that Lloyds Bank hadnt 
acted fairly because the evidence Mr M had supplied had showed that his online banking 
suggested he had available credit and his payment history showed that hed managed his 
card  based on that information  to stay within his limit. So, it wasnt fair for Lloyds Bank to 
report the fact that hed gone over his limit even though he had in fact done so. Both parties 
agreed with our investigators ultimate recommendations which were that Lloyds Bank 
should remove any adverse entries reported to the credit reference agencies, freeze any 
interest charges and refund any interest already charged for the period October 2019 until 
the adverse entries were removed and pay compensation. Mr M has had to come back to us 
several times since then to say Lloyds Bank has not done what it has said it would. A new 
investigator has looked at his complaint again  and the delays  and recommended further 
compensation. Lloyds Bank accepted our new investigators recommendations. Mr M didnt. 
He wanted an ombudsman to look at his complaint and asked for £1,000 in compensation, 
amongst other things. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No-one is disputing anymore that it was unfair of Lloyds Bank to report the fact that Mr M 
went over his limit in November 2019 because his online banking was displaying incorrect 
information and hed been making payments and managing his card in a way that would 
have made sure he stayed within his limit. Nor is anyone disputing the fact that Lloyds Bank 
has agreed to get the adverse information removed and has failed to do so several times 
despite saying that it had made the necessary amendments. Lloyds Bank, however, says 
that it has made all the necessary amendments and that his credit file has been fully updated 
since 13 July 2021. Thats disputed by Mr M who has sent in evidence that an organisation 
is still reporting the fact that he went over his limit. I accept Mr Ms evidence  throughout 
this complaint hes provided detailed and comprehensive evidence of the issues hes had. I 
also, however, accept that the organisation in question isnt one that Lloyds Bank has a 
relationship with and that it doesnt report information to them. Weve said to Mr M that hell 
need to complain to the organisation in question, and I agree thats the right approach.
Our investigator recommended that Lloyds Bank should remove any adverse entries 
reported to the credit reference agencies, freeze any interest charges and refund any 
interest already charged for the period October 2019 until the adverse entries were removed 
and pay compensation. I agree with those recommendations, although I do want to talk 
about the amount of compensation weve recommended. Im satisfied based on the 
information Ive seen that Lloyds Bank has removed the adverse information that it reported 
 by amending it  and that it did so by 13 July 2021. Lloyds Bank agreed to freeze any 
interest charges and refund any interest charged until the adverse entries were removed. Im 
satisfied based on the information that Ive seen that Lloyds Bank has done this too. So, the 
only issue I have to decide is whether or not the compensation our new investigator has 
recommendation is fair.
I can see that Mr M has been complaining to Lloyds Bank since 2018 about incorrect 
information being displayed on his online banking. He also started to complain about 
adverse information on his credit file in November 2019. Hes been told by Lloyds Bank 
several times that it will fix the problem and that the problem has been fixed, only to discover 
that this isnt the case. Hes come back to us several times as a result  each time providing 
us with detailed evidence showing that Lloyds Bank hadnt done what it had said it would. I 
can see when he originally complained that he had a particularly low credit score  which 
has now improved significantly  and agree with the original investigator that this was more 
likely than not down to the information Lloyds Bank reported. So whilst I cant say, for 
example, that Mr M definitely had a problem getting a mobile phone because of the 
information Lloyds Bank unfairly reported, I do accept that Mr M has been caused a lot of 
inconvenience throughout this time, and that this must have been an incredibly frustrating 
experience for him. Hes had to live with a credit file that wasnt accurate for over a year and 
a half despite repeated promises that it had been fixed amongst other things. To date weve 
recommended Lloyds Bank pay £335 in compensation in total for distress and 
inconvenience in addition to the other steps weve told Lloyds Bank to take. Mr M would like 
£1,000 and has explained why he thinks that award would be more appropriate. 
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, I consider an overall award of £500 to be fair. So thats the 
award Im going to make  Lloyds Bank should pay Mr M £500 in compensation less the 
compensation amounts its already paid in full and final settlement of this complaint. Thats in 
addition to the interest it agreed to refund  and that its told us it has refunded  and the 
amendments to Mr Ms credit file. Lloyds Bank has already paid the £335 compensation 
wed previously recommended, meaning Lloyds Bank will have to pay an additional £165.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr M £500 in compensation  less 
any compensation payments it has already made  in full and final settlement of his 
complaint. Thats in addition to the interest it agreed to refund  and that its told us it has 
refunded  and the amendments to Mr Ms credit file.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman