DRN-3879987
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) 
didnt settle in full a claim under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D said in the early hours of one morning he found his cat stuck up a very large tree. 
Before he could return with a ladder to rescue him, the cat fell out of the tree. Mr D thought 
the cat was going to die from internal injuries. He telephoned the out of hours vet who 
advised him to bring the cat to the surgery.
The cat was diagnosed with an anal prolapse. He was treated with antibiotics and painkillers. 
Mr D claimed for the cost of the treatment. C&G paid most of the claim but didnt cover the 
out of hours fee of £199.50. It said such fees were only covered by the policy when a pet 
needed life-saving treatment and it didnt think that had been the case.
Mr D provided us with evidence from his vet that it was possible that the cat could have had 
several injuries requiring life-saving treatment. The vet said only a professional vet could be 
sure whether treatment for an injury was life-saving by examining the animal.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld it. He thought C&G 
should settle the out of hours fee with interest.
As C&G didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds policy says:
What is not insured?
Any out of hours Vet Fees, except where this is life-saving for Your pet;
Whilst I appreciate that C&G is relying on a strict interpretation of its policy terms to decline 
this part of the claim, I need to consider whether that is fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of this case. This involves taking account of what a reasonable consumer 
would have considered as life-saving treatment.
In this case Mr D said after the fall his cat had blood on his head and a lot of blood around 
his anus. His vet said it was 01.00 when Mr D contacted his service. I can understand why 
Mr D didnt want to wait several hours before his cat was seen by a vet, bearing in mind his 
visible injuries which might have required life-saving treatment. The vet also said an anal 
prolapse could require intensive care and surgery if not given prompt treatment. 
Although it later transpired that Mr Ds cats injuries didnt need life-saving treatment, I am 
satisfied that the circumstances were such that a reasonable consumer might have 
considered that life-saving treatment was required. As such, I dont consider the strict 
application of this exclusion is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd should:
settle the claim for the vets out of hours fee under the remaining terms of the policy; and
pay simple interest on any amount due to Mr D at the rate of 8% from the date his claim 
was made until settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Casualty & 
General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman