DRN-2178091
The complaint
Miss T complains about the way TSB Bank Plc treated her when it chased her for an 
outstanding debt.
What happened
Miss T had a personal loan with TSB. In 2016 Miss T went through some personal difficulties 
and was put in a vulnerable position. She entered a debt management plan with a debt 
charity.
In 2017 Miss T had some conversations with TSB where she confirmed that she had a debt 
management plan set up. TSB recorded in the notes that Miss T was vulnerable. Some time 
later, Miss T was told by her debt management charity that she was debt free.
In May 2019, TSB wrote to Miss T saying she owed around £681 and that it would pass the 
debt on to a debt recovery agency. Miss T contacted TSB has she was concerned about 
this. She initially questioned whether the debt was hers. This was due to the difficulties shed 
experienced in the past  which TSB was aware of  and because she believed she was 
now debt free. TSB said the amount was owed due to a loan she took out and sent her 
statements to show that an amount was outstanding.
Miss T said her statement showed there was nothing owed and was confused. She said 
shed had a debt management plan in place. TSB didnt explain what it had received from 
the debt charity or why there was an amount outstanding. Miss T contacted her debt charity 
and it gave a summary of what it had paid TSB. After this, TSB responded to say that the 
payments stopped in 2018 and it hadnt cleared the debt. Miss T complained.
Our investigator explained that the debt was outstanding as it appears Miss Ts debt charity 
didnt repay the full amount that was owed. But she felt that TSB couldve done more to 
explain this to Miss T. Our investigator recommended TSB pay Miss T £200 compensation 
for the way it handled her query about the debt. 
TSB disagreed with the recommendation. It said it hadnt made an error and that Miss T was 
aware that she owed money. It also said it didnt have a responsibility to chase the debt after 
the debt charity had made its last payment, but rather it was for Miss T to continue making 
payments. It asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that the outstanding debt is something Miss T does owe because it 
wasnt fully repaid by her debt charity, so Im focusing my decision on how TSB treated 
Miss T when it asked her to repay this amount in 2019. Having thought about this, I agree 
with the investigator that TSB couldve done better.
Miss T was, understandably, under the impression that she didnt owe any more to TSB as 
the loan was part of her debt management plan, and shed been told this had finished. So, I 
can imagine the shock of being asked for money after 12 months of no contact. I dont think 
its wrong that TSB asked her for this money. But when Miss T contacted TSB to find out 
why money was owed, I think TSB couldve done more.
TSB didnt explain that the money owed was because the debt charity had stopped paying 
and hadnt paid enough. It couldve given this information to Miss T at the outset. Instead it 
said that she owed it as it was related to a loan. It then sent her a statement to show she 
owed money. This caused further confusion as the statement shows theres no money owed 
on the loan. And I dont think its reasonable to expect Miss T to have understood what a 
charge off entry means on the statement.
Miss T had to approach her debt charity and find out exactly how much was paid towards 
her loan. She gave this information to TSB and it was only after this that TSB explained this 
didnt clear the debt. And even at this point it didnt explain why. I think it couldve done 
more. It couldve explained to Miss T when she first contacted it about the letter shed 
received why the money was owed. It couldve explained how much was paid and why there 
was an amount outstanding. But it didnt do this and I think this wouldve caused Miss T 
trouble and upset.
TSB was aware that Miss T is vulnerable. It was made aware of the difficulties shed been 
through, particularly involving debts created by her ex-partner. When Miss T explained that 
she was shocked and worried about receiving a notice that she owed some money, TSB 
couldve explained that this was something she owed, why she owed it and how the amount 
was calculated. Instead it sent her statements showing a zero balance and left her to chase 
her debt charity to find out what had been paid so far. Given the experience Miss T went 
through relating to her debt problems, which TSB was aware of, I think this wouldve caused 
Miss T to be very worried and stressed for longer than she had to be. Especially as this 
couldve been explained properly as soon as Miss T contacted TSB about the letter it sent 
her. So, I think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable to reflect the trouble and upset 
Miss T has experienced.
TSB has said throughout that it wasnt its responsibility to chase Miss T earlier for the debt. 
But I do think that when it did, and when Miss T asked questions about it, it couldve done 
more to ensure she was clear about why she owed this money.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank Plc should pay Miss T £200 compensation for the trouble 
and upset it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman