DRN-2724498
Complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that the Co-operative Bank (the Co-op) didnt do more to help 
them when they were the victims of a scam. 
Background
Mr and Mrs A have a joint account with the Co-op. On 13 August 2019, Mr A was planning to 
send £1,000 to his daughter and was confirming her account details by email. He sent a test 
payment of £1 and received what appeared to be an email from her to say that it had been 
safely received. Mr A then sent a further £1,000. Unfortunately, the email exchange wasnt 
with his daughter, but with a scammer who had managed to intercept Mr As emails. When 
his daughter told him that she hadnt received any money, he suspected hed been the victim 
of a scam. He promptly informed the Co-op. This was on 23 August 2019.
The Co-op misconstrued what he told it and so failed to immediately contact the fraudsters 
bank and attempt to recover Mr and Mrs As money. It has since come to light that the 
money had already been removed from the receiving account before Mr A realised that hed 
been the victim of a scam. The money was moved on in less than an hour.
Mr A complained to the Co-op. Mr A told it that hed taken sensible precautions to reduce the 
risk of fraud and there was nothing more that he, as a layperson, couldve done to protect 
himself. He cited a section of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code to 
demonstrate why he believed he should be refunded the scam payment. The Co-op rejected 
his complaint. It said that hed authorised the payment so there was little more it couldve 
done to help. It also said that the payment wasnt unusual or out of character and so it hadnt 
been flagged by the Co-ops fraud prevention systems.
Mr A was unhappy with this and so he referred a complaint to this service. It was looked at 
by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator agreed with the Co-ops conclusion 
that the payment wasnt unusual or out of character and so it wouldnt have known to 
intervene. He explained that the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) was a scheme 
that the Co-op werent signed up to in August 2019 and so he couldnt hold it to the higher 
standards that its code of practice wouldve demanded. He also explained that, while the 
banking industry now operates a Confirmation of Payee process as standard, it wasnt in 
force at the time and so the Co-op wouldnt have been able to apply it.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said that the Co-op must have been 
aware of this kind of fraud for a long period of time. It shouldve been more proactive in 
introducing systems to protect its customers. He also pointed out that he was also unhappy 
about the quality of customer service he received from the Co-op when he told it what had 
happened and that the failure to prevent fraud had caused him significant inconvenience and 
reputational damage.
As Mr A didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is common ground that Mr A authorised the scam payments. He was duped by the 
scammers into instructing his bank to transfer that sum to their account. I accept that this 
was an authorised payment, even though Mr A was the victim of a technically sophisticated 
scam. Although he didnt intend for the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider the 
Co-op should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Having looked at the statement data submitted by the Co-op, I dont think it wouldve had 
any reasonable basis for treating this individual payment as unusual or out of character. It 
was for £1,000  but in the preceding six months, I can see that there were more than ten 
payments in excess of that amount from this account.
It is now known (with the benefit of hindsight) that this payment was destined for the account 
of a fraudster  but given what the Co-op knew at the time the payment was made, Im not 
persuaded it wouldve had any grounds for thinking it needed to intervene. Mr A has pointed 
out that, if the CRM code were applied to this transaction, his complaint might have been 
upheld. But I must apply the rules that were in force at the time he made the payment, rather 
than retrospectively applying a different set of rules.  This also applies to the Confirmation of 
Payee process. Back in August 2019, the Co-op wouldnt have been able to verify whether 
the destination account was genuinely in his daughters name and so I dont think this 
wouldve been a means for it to prevent Mr A from being a victim of fraud.
I can also see from the evidence provided to us by the receiving bank that, even if the Co-op 
had acted more swiftly in attempting to recover the money, it wouldnt have made a 
difference. The funds had already been moved on before Mr A notified it that hed been the 
victim of a scam on 23 August.
Mr A argued that his complaint was not limited to the failure by the Co-op to prevent the 
fraud. Hes also profoundly unhappy with the quality of customer service he received from 
Co-op representatives which forced him to waste his time on three unnecessary phone calls 
and a trip to a branch. He also pointed out that these events caused embarrassment and 
damage to his reputation.
By its own admission, the Co-op did not handle things as well as it shouldve done. It was for 
that reason that it offered a compensation payment of £50. And while there can be little doubt that the total amount of inconvenience suffered by Mr A was worth more than that 
sum, Im restricted to considering the actions and inactions of the Co-op. It was the scammer 
who perpetrated the fraud on Mr A and was the direct cause of the overwhelming majority of 
the inconvenience and reputational damage suffered here. I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to simply transfer the responsibility to the Co-op, particularly given that Ive 
concluded that it couldnt reasonably have been expected to prevent the fraud.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman