DRN-3078594
The complaint
Miss C has complained that PRA Group (UK) Limited are pursuing her for debts she didnt 
realise she still had, and that they reported things incorrectly on her credit file. 
What happened
This complaint is about three defaulted accounts  a credit card, a loan, and an overdraft 
which were sold from the original creditor (who Ill call N) to PRA Group in 2019.
The loan and overdraft were originally held jointly between Miss C and her late partner, who 
passed away. The credit card was in Miss Cs sole name, while her partner had been added 
as an additional cardholder.
Miss C and her late partner had been paying these debts via a debt management charity. 
Miss C has explained that her partner handled the debt situation, so she wasnt aware the 
accounts had been sold to PRA Group. And she explained that when her partner passed 
away, N told her all the debts had been closed. So she was surprised to then learn that she 
still had outstanding balances with PRA Group.
Meanwhile, the debt management charity reported to PRA Group that Miss Cs partner had 
passed away. But because of an administrative error, PRA Groups system ended up 
recording Miss C as being deceased on her credit file.
Miss C complained. PRA Group apologised, fixed Miss Cs credit file entries, and paid £100 
compensation towards her outstanding debts. But Miss C explained shed been treated very 
unfairly. She said she hadnt known she still had these debts and so she asked if they could 
be written off.
Our investigator looked into things independently and found that PRA Group had already 
resolved their mistake fairly. They explained that while they could see Miss C had been 
caused understandable upset by being led to believe her debts were gone, PRA Group 
werent responsible for any wrong information N might have given Miss C, and this was 
money she genuinely owed. And they could see that PRA Group did contact Miss C directly 
back in 2019 to let her know they now owned the accounts.
Miss C didnt agree. She felt the information PRA Group were reporting on her credit file was 
still wrong. She felt PRA Group should have done more to let her know theyd bought the 
debts. She explained that between Ns mis-advice and her late partner not keeping key 
documents, she hadnt been aware of what was going on. She also felt sure that her credit 
card account had been a joint one.
Miss C asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I will say that Miss C has my sympathies  it sounds like shes gone through a truly 
tough time. From what shes told us, her late partner didnt show her key correspondence 
and she was mis-advised by N, which means it came as a shock to her to find out that these 
debts were still outstanding.
With that said, I should explain that in this complaint I can only consider what PRA Group 
did. I cannot hold PRA Group responsible for any actions of her late partner or N. And these 
are debts which Miss C genuinely owes. So while I can certainly understand why she would 
like them to be written off, I cant fairly tell PRA Group to do that because of someone elses 
mistake. I understand that we have looked at what N did in a separate case.
I can see that PRA Group wrote directly to Miss C in 2019 to let her know theyd bought 
these accounts  which is what they were supposed to do. They also texted her to explain 
theyd bought these debts, and they tried getting in touch by phone a number of times too. 
They then had regular interaction with the debt management charity who Miss C had 
instructed to represent her. So I think PRA Group made sufficient effort to contact Miss C 
and her representatives when they bought the accounts.
Of course, both sides accept that PRA Group got things wrong by reporting Miss C as 
deceased on her credit file. But I can see that after Miss C let PRA Group know, they 
apologised and put her credit file entries right. They also paid £100 compensation towards 
her debts to acknowledge the impact their mistake had had on her. And they then put things 
on hold while she brought her complaint further. So theyve already done what I would have 
told them to do there.
Miss C says the information PRA Group are reporting on her credit file is still incorrect. But 
as far as I can see, they are no longer reporting her as deceased, and the dates and 
balances are correct. Its worth bearing in mind that the balances on her credit file have been 
rounded to the nearest pound. So for example, while the balance of her loan is £3,837.84, 
this will show up on her credit file as £3,838. As Miss C has noted, PRA Group have chosen 
not to report her credit card on her credit file anymore. Its not clear why theyve done that  
it may be because it defaulted so long ago. But ultimately, that will only make her credit file 
look better, as its one less defaulted debt on her file, so I cant say theyve acted unfairly or 
unreasonably there.
I understand that Miss C recalls her credit card being a joint account. But generally 
speaking, credit cards can normally only be sole accounts. You can add extra cardholders, 
but its still a sole account. I appreciate this is not very intuitive, so I can understand why 
Miss C might have thought this was a joint account. But I can see that Miss Cs credit card 
was indeed in her sole name  her late partner was just an additional cardholder. In any 
case, Im afraid this does not really make a difference, as whether it was joint or sole shes 
still now responsible for the outstanding balance.
Lastly, Miss C asked us to clarify which accounts were which and what the balances were, 
as shed found this confusing. Ill send her a breakdown with the cover letter so that its 
clearly set out for her.I hope I can reassure Miss C that its quite normal for debts to be sold on like this. PRA 
Group still have to deal with her fairly when it comes to repaying the debt  and theyve 
confirmed that theyll only ask Miss C to pay what she can reasonably afford, and theyre 
happy to work around her and her circumstances. If shes in any financial difficulties, Id 
expect PRA Group to deal with that positively and sympathetically. Miss C may want to get 
back in touch with PRA Group to see what assistance they can give her with repaying the 
accounts. Ill also send Miss C the details for charities who can give her free help and advice 
in dealing with debts  including the one she was using before in case shed like to use them 
again. And Miss C can always get back in touch with our service for a new case if she later 
feels that PRA Group arent taking her situation into account when working out how to repay 
the debts.
But as things stand, I think these debts are genuine, I dont think PRA Group are responsible 
for what other parties may have got wrong, and I think PRA Group have already put their 
own mistakes right. So I dont require PRA Group to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman