DRN-3984685
The complaint
Mr H complains, via his representatives, that he paid Profile Financial Solutions Limited 
(Profile) for a service that he has not received. He would like the fees he has paid to be 
refunded.
What happened
Mr H became a client of Profile in July 2014 when he was advised to switch his personal 
pension to a lower cost alternative. For this he paid an initial fee and agreed to an ongoing 
charge of 0.3% each year, both to be paid from the fund. 
When presenting his advice by phone the adviser said the ongoing charge was for the firm to 
look after him, for a review each year and also for support and administration.
Profile contacted Mr H to carry out a review on more than one occasion in the following 
years, but Mr H did not respond. Towards the end of 2018 Profile wrote to increase the 
annual charge to 0.6% of the fund, while adding further services such as an online portal 
offering live valuations, projections, document storage and access to advisers and the 
support team when needed. The letter said that if he was unhappy with the service he could 
cancel at any time.   
Mr H completed an update form in December 2019. In 2020 Profile wrote to Mr H to suggest 
a change of pension provider again, to a lower cost solution. Again, Mr H did not respond. 
After further attempts to make contact in 2021 and 2022, Profile spoke to Mr H in April 2022 
to discuss access to his online account. He said he would get around to it.
In August 2022, Mr Hs representatives submitted a complaint to Profile. The main aspects 
of the complaint were that the fee was not justified by the service he had received; Profile 
had not reviewed the suitability of the pension; Mr H had not been contacted by Profile; 
percentage charging was unfair; and changes to Mr Hs personal and financial 
circumstances had not been accounted for.
Profile rejected the complaint because they had tried to contact Mr H for reviews, and there 
were other elements to the service in any case. Mr Hs representatives did not accept 
Profiles response so the complaint was brought to this service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint because the evidence showed that Profile had 
tried to contact Mr H and arrange reviews, and in any case the review (which required Mr Hs 
input) was only a part of the service offering. 
Mr Hs representatives did not accept this opinion, saying that it was not enough to simply 
offer a review, but that the review had to take place.
The case was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs representatives say Profile did not review the ongoing suitability of Mr Hs pension. 
But they would not have been able to do so fully unless Mr H responded to the requests to 
update his circumstances, aims and objectives for a review. Furthermore in 2020, after Mr H 
provided updated information, Profile did recommend an alternative scheme. This review 
and recommendation was part of Profiles ongoing service and was included in the fee Mr H 
was paying. So I think Profile did keep the pension under review, as much as they could 
without Mr Hs involvement. 
His representatives say that Mr H had not been contacted by Profile. Profile has provided 
call and email logs from 2015 to 2022. There were five attempts to contact Mr H for a review 
in 2015-2017 and in later years there was a larger volume of email contact, not only for 
reviews but also newsletters and other items like Budget updates. So I do not agree that 
Profile did not contact Mr H.
Mr Hs representatives stated that percentage fees were unfair because they did not reflect 
the work undertaken and would mean fees increasing in times of positive performance.  
Percentage fees are not prohibited under any relevant regulations or guidance, provided 
they are adequately disclosed, which they were in this case. Arguably, for a business to 
have their remuneration aligned with the growth of their clients assets means that both 
parties share a common interest. I do not agree that percentage charging is inherently unfair.
With regard to the claim that changes to Mr Hs personal and financial circumstances were 
not accounted for, I have already said the evidence shows that Profile tried to update Mr Hs 
circumstances for a review on many occasions. It would not be possible for Profile to 
consider any information that Mr H was unwilling to provide. So I think that if Mr Hs 
information was not taken into account, this was not because of any failing on Profiles part. 
Mr Hs representatives said that it was not enough to offer a review, but the review had to be 
carried out to justify the fee. But I have no doubt that had Mr H responded when he was 
approached to arrange a review, those reviews would have been carried out. The only 
barrier to more regular reviews was Mr Hs lack of engagement and I do not think it is fair or 
reasonable to ask Profile to refund fees because of that. Furthermore, in addition to offering 
reviews  which Mr H didnt respond to  Profile monitored funds for quality and suitability 
(and did recommend a change of provider in 2020), were available to answer queries and 
deal with pension providers, provided commentary on financial matters (e.g. in relation to 
Budgets) and offered an online information and document storage facility. Mr H also had 
access to an adviser and support staff when he needed help or advice. So Im satisfied 
Profile offered a number of services to Mr H, some of which he benefited from, some of 
which he could have benefited from if he had wanted/needed to. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied Profile hasnt done anything wrong in charging a fee.
Therefore I find that Profile have acted fairly and as a result I am unable to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against Profile Financial Solutions 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman