DRN-3868662
The complaint
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in bringing this complaint. 
However, as Ill explain below, there has been considerable uncertainty as to what this 
complaint is actually about. 
Mr M himself is relatively clear that his complaint is about his DB pension being transferred, 
with his full consent, to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in 2017. However, he says 
most of the transferred money was subsequently moved, after a few years, to a different 
type of fund which he didnt want. Specifically, he says the money was moved to a cash 
type fund within the SIPP without his knowledge or consent. 
Mr Ms CMC, however, originally portrayed his complaint as being about the actual pension 
transfer - from a DB pension scheme to a SIPP - in 2017. The CMC said the advice Mr M 
received was unsuitable. 
In my view, these two different versions of events cast doubt on the overall credibility of the 
complaint. This is because Mr M and his CMC appear to be talking about two completely 
different issues. Its also unfortunate that what the CMC has said about the circumstances of 
that time also contains a number of apparent inaccuracies.
Mr M initially went through an independent financial adviser (IFA) for financial advice about 
his pension options. But Tegamax Wealth Management Ltd conducted regulated financial 
business on behalf of the IFA, so it is responsible for the advice Mr M was given. In referring 
to the advising business, Ill therefore call it TWML. 
What happened
In 2017, Mr M was a deferred member of an OPS. Hed accrued the benefits from service 
with a previous employer. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the OPS was 
around £92,379.
We know Mr M wanted to buy a property overseas at the time and he used the money 
generated by transferring his CETV to a SIPP, to help free up the funds necessary to buy the 
property.  Information gathered about Mr M at that time was broadly as follows:
Mr M was aged 62 and had plans to retire more or less straight away. He was 
divorced but had a partner who was financially independent.
Mr M ran his own business and planned to step down and take some capital out of 
the business as income. His business was said to have had substantial cash assets.
He had an existing property and cash assets of over £700,000 and had two financial 
plans said to be maturing in 2021 & 2022 valued at around £2,000 & £20,000 
respectively.
He also had other pensions comprising values of around £385,000 that he wanted to 
leave where they were.
At the time, Mr M said his objective was to access the tax-free cash element from his 
pension savings in the OPS, in order to fund the purchase of a residential property valued at 
€315,000. Due to the timescales for the property purchase, TWML advised him to transfer 
his OPS to a SIPP and immediately use the 25% tax-free element he was allowed to take to 
help fund the house purchase. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and interpreted it to be focussed on what 
the CMC had said about the original pension transfer being unsuitable. The investigator said 
they didnt think we should uphold the complaint mainly because it was Mr Ms objective at 
the time to buy a property within tight timeframes. All this was articulated in the investigators 
View, issued in March 2022. The CMC, acting on behalf of Mr M didnt agree with this and 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in November 2022. In the light of what 
Ive described above, I asked either party to respond with any new information or evidence 
by 21 December 2022. However, Ive noted weve been sent no new such information or 
evidence.
Im therefore now issuing a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of TWML's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, TWML should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. 
However, as Ive alluded to above, there seems to still be a substantial difference between 
Mr M and his own representative about what his complaint is about. Ive also given the 
parties several opportunities to clarify their position.
In my view, this hasnt happened and so it is reasonable that I now need to make a final 
decision about determining the outcome of this complaint. 
Im not upholding this complaint.
What this complaint is about
I first considered all the information we had about this complaint in September 2022. Taking 
account of what Mr M, his CMC and our investigator had each said, I arrived at the point 
where I needed to clarify what the complaint was actually about. This is because the 
information Id seen implied that Mr Ms complaint probably wasnt about a pension transfer 
being unsuitable for him  rather, it seemed to be about the subsequent administration of his 
transferred funds.
However, because the CMC originally seemed to be complaining about the actual pension 
transfer, I of course tried to clarify these issues. I tried, for example, to get an answer from 
the CMC, firstly in early September 2022, but I was unable to do so as contact was slow and 
somewhat cumbersome. On 9 September 2022, I was able to get clarification from Mr M 
himself. 
He confirmed to me that hed sought pension advice, in 2017, with the specific intention of 
buying the property. He also confirmed that he still considered transferring out of his OPS to 
a SIPP was a reasonable way of accessing liquid cash within the timescales allowed. Mr M 
said he knew exactly what he was doing at the time and also that he understood the 
consequences of transferring from a DB pension scheme to a SIPP.
Mr M went on to say his complaint to our Service was specifically about his pension funds 
being subsequently moved to a cash fund. He says this was done automatically and without 
his consent upon him reaching the age of 65. He told us that after originally accessing the 
25% tax-free element from his transferred-out OPS, in mid-2017, the remaining 75% placed 
into the new SIPP was put into money market funds in accordance with his moderate 
attitude to risk. He then hoped these funds would grow at a reasonable rate, from 2017 
onwards, to help contribute towards his overall retirement income which he could start to 
draw upon in due course.
So, the summary of what Mr M himself says is that at some point after reaching the age of 
65, his money was moved to a cash fund within the SIPP, which is not what he wanted. And 
Mr M says that after the annual SIPP fees and management charges were applied, he saw 
he was losing money.
In this context, it seems reasonably clear to me that Mr M is not complaining about the 
original transfer from the DB scheme to the SIPP. His complaint is about the money moving 
to a cash fund some years later.
The complaint points from the CMC
In the light of these anomalies I went back and thoroughly read everything Mr Ms CMC said 
when it had raised the original complaint on his behalf. These points are summarised in a 
document we were sent together with Mr Ms complaint form which has two headings (Point 
1 and Point 2). In this document, Ive noted a number of inaccuracies in the CMCs 
understanding of Mr Ms circumstances. Whilst these matters wouldnt in themselves normally affect the overall outcome of a complaint, in my view they demonstrate a lack of 
attention to detail as to Mr Ms situation at the time. 
Examples include the description of the type of pension scheme Mr M was advised to 
transfer out of, which the CMC refers to as a defined contribution (DC) scheme, which isnt 
right. Mr M had a DB scheme and was advised to transfer that to a SIPP. Another 
inaccuracy is that the CMC described Mr M as being unemployed, when the information from 
the fact-find shows he was a director and self-employed and did not intend to potentially 
step down until October of 2017. 
Ive also tried asking Mr Ms CMC to really clarify what the complaint is about. Ive had to do 
this on more than one occasion and I eventually received a reply which said: 
We have discussed your recent email with [Mr M] and he is not in agreement that 
his complaint relates to administration issues, and that it does relate to the advice 
he received. [Mr M] does not dispute the primary reason for his pension transfer, 
however, the remaining funds were to be invested in a medium risk fund that would 
continue to earn an income for him. Had [Mr M] been advised that his funds would 
be transferred to a cash only account when he turned 65 then he would not have 
invested his money in this fund as the purpose was to generate a return on his 
investment.
In my view, this explanation of Mr Ms complaint still lacks clarity and it simply begs more 
questions than it answers. On one hand its saying he received unsuitable advice when he 
was 62 years old. But on the other hand its saying the complaint is about him being moved 
funds at the age of 65 (or above). It further says that the complaint is not about the 
administration of the funds. And given that Mr M has sought help in bringing a complaint to 
our Service, Id expect to see a clear rationale and explanation from a professional adviser of 
what the complaint is about.
Mindful of the need to progress matters, I am now therefore moving to the decision stage.
Where we currently are with the complaint
Our investigators View
Our investigator explained why, in his opinion, the transfer out of the DB pension wasnt 
unsuitable in these particular circumstances. And whilst he didnt address the apparent 
discrepancies between Mr Ms version of what the complaint is about, and that of his 
representative, I agree with many of the points the investigator did make.
The investigator comprehensively explained that Mr M had considerable financial assets in 
2017 which included savings, property, pensions and maturing financial plans. He then 
explained how the evidence showed that Mr M was a relatively sophisticated investor who 
also understood the trade-offs between giving up some of the benefits and guarantees 
found in his OPS - and his desire to immediately free up cash to buy a property. 
Given everything Ive seen thus far, I wouldnt be minded to uphold a transfer complaint.
Our investigator didnt address the issue of the (much later) cash fund transfer, because in 
my view, the CMC had failed to properly articulate this within the complaint submission it 
sent us.
Other issuesIn the light of an apparent shift from one type of complaint to another, I have considered the 
cash transfer matter as best I can. However, the reality here is that the CMC hasnt 
submitted any meaningful information or evidence in support of TWML being responsible for 
this or the alleged circumstances surrounding it.
For example, the CMC hasnt explained the differences in the SIPP fund(s) Mr M was first 
supposedly advised to transfer into and what he was subsequently transferred to. In fact, 
from what I can see, it hasnt even provided any evidence that the funds were transferred 
from a modest ATR fund to a cash fund. It also implies money was lost as a consequence 
of the changing funds, but it hasnt demonstrated how money was lost, or how much. 
We also know Mr M was advised about transferring from his DB scheme in May 2017 and 
transferred to the SIPP in or around July 2017. Ive calculated that he became aged 65 in 
October 2019, which would therefore be the earliest point at which his retirement savings in 
the SIPP would have been moved to a 65+ fund, if that is what happened. And of course, 
for him to make - or realised hed made  any loss in such a fund, its reasonable to say this 
probably would not have been apparent to him until around 2021. But the CMC has brought 
no evidence or supporting information whatsoever concerning this apparent realisation, nor 
has it explained how all this was apparently discovered. It has been given many chances to 
do this. And if I were to consider the principal complaint point now being about the cash 
fund transfer, rather than the original pension transfer, Id also expect  at the very least  an 
explanation and / or some contextual information supporting that complaint.
Ive also noted that Mr Ms complaint to the business, submitted on his behalf by the CMC, 
was in January 2021. I also see some subject access requests were made in 2020. In my 
view, this would mean that the maximum time Mr M could have been invested in a 65+ 
cash fund against his wishes would be limited, meaning any loss (if there was one) was 
most likely very minimal.
Why Im not intending to uphold the complaint
I accept, of course, that many consumers can find articulating financial complaints quite 
difficult. But in this case, the subject matter seems relatively straightforward and the whole 
purpose of bringing a complaint through a CMC is to help present dissatisfaction about a 
financial business in a way that best illustrates what actually happened. However, here after 
many months, I still cant be entirely sure what the complaint is about.
In my experience, its often also the case that upon reaching the age of 65, default 
investment strategies within the likes of a SIPP can kick-in; these types of strategy are 
mainly intended for the protection of the pensioner. I also think its much more likely that the 
SIPP terms and conditions in this case would have explained these types of default strategy 
to Mr M. Id have also expected Mr M to have an oversight of the funds he had been placed 
into, from the point of his original investment in 2017, to a point where he might have 
realised something had changed. Ive noted too, that annual fund statements were provided 
to Mr M after 2017. In my view, these all point to a probable awareness of the funds he was 
invested in.
However, in any event, the CMC has provided no specific complaint points about why it 
thinks TWML is responsible for the moving of Mr Ms money to a cash fund, either with or 
without his consent, particularly as this would have apparently taken place two-and-a-half 
years after the original advice was provided, in 2017.
This issue is further complicated in that TWML is no longer trading and Ive noted it entered 
voluntary liquidation some time ago. And whilst my recent understanding was that it may still 
be possible to bring a complaint against it, the provision of information from the company about the post-transfer processes, were they in 2019 or 2020 for example, would most likely 
be limited now, even if it were responsible. I note weve had a reply from a previous director 
of TWML. But not unreasonably, this was about the original complaint when the points 
seemed to refer to a completely different issue.
In summary then, I think its likely that when Mr M used a CMC to help bring his complaint, 
hed have had the expectation that all complaint points would be made in a clear and 
succinct way on his behalf. In my view, this simply hasnt been done and even now, after 
several attempts at clarifying the situation, we were provided with an update from the CMC 
which remains very unclear. Where weve got to after all this time is therefore still as follows, 
even after Ive tried to clarify issues by issuing a provisional decision:
1. In addressing the original pension transfer complaint, our adjudicator has already 
issued a View which I am not departing from. Everything Ive seen points to Mr M 
fully consenting to the pension transfer and to use the tax-free pension element for a 
specific purpose. Im therefore not upholding a complaint about this.
2. If the complaint is about the cash fund transfer issue, the necessary information and 
evidence to support such a claim is completely absent, in my view. Whether there is 
a loss at all is highly uncertain here, and Mr M was also supplied with a Key features 
and Information document at the time of the advice which in my experience would 
have set out the rules and policies of the SIPP going forward. If a transfer to a 
different fund did take place, I think it must have been some years after 2017. And 
theres a likelihood Mr M either knew or ought to have known about it. In any event 
theres simply no evidence this was the responsibility of TWML. Im therefore not 
upholding a complaint about this either.
3. The issues here have been considerably hampered by the conflicting information 
weve received about what Mr Ms complaint is actually about. Its a reasonable 
expectation that complaints to this Service should at least articulate what specific 
points are being complained of. This hasnt happened here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
I do not direct Tegamax Wealth Management Ltd to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman