DRN-3314944
The complaint
Mr C complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him irresponsibly and provided him 
with unaffordable lending.
What happened
AvantCredit provided a loan to Mr C as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableLoan status
7.2.2016 £2,200 24 months £139.91 £3357.87 Charged off on 
19/07/2017
When Mr C complained to AvantCredit it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that 
AvantCredit shouldnt have provided the loan. Our adjudicator explained why she was 
recommending that the complaint should be upheld and she set out directions indicating 
what AvantCredit should do to put things right. 
Mr C was happy to accept our adjudicators recommendations. AvantCredit disagreed. It 
mainly said that using the loan for debt consolidation  in other words, to repay other debt  
couldve benefitted Mr C and improved his financial situation. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Cs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
I have reviewed the information AvantCredit gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. 
AvantCredit took steps to verify Mr Cs declared income and recorded that his pay was 
around £1,815 per month. Alongside asking Mr C about his monthly expenses, 
AvantCredit also carried out its own credit checks to understand his credit history and 
current credit commitments. 
After allowing for all his monthly outgoings, AvantCredits affordability assessment 
suggested that Mr C should still have some disposable income left after paying for 
everything. 
But, like our adjudicator, I think AvantCredit should have been concerned to see that 
when Mr C applied for this loan the credit report it obtained for him showed that he had 
already opened five new accounts  including three short-term loans - within the previous 
three months and the balances on four of his accounts had also increased during this 
period. His total debt balance had gone up by £2,644 over the previous year and now 
stood at £5,793 (not including any mortgage) and cost him £508 per month. This meant 
that Mr C was paying more than a quarter of his income towards servicing his existing 
credit commitments.
Whilst having other outstanding lending or even an impaired credit history wouldnt be 
unusual for a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt 
necessarily be a bar to lending, I dont think AvantCredit took properly into account what the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr Cs overall financial situation and the likelihood 
of him being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
I think our adjudicator was right to say that the indications were that Mr C wasnt managing 
his money well and he was already struggling financially. His use of short-term loans in 
particular suggested he was reliant on expensive credit to fill the gap left in his finances after 
making repayments he owed to other creditors  effectively, he was borrowing from one 
lender to pay another. I dont think AvantCredit was reasonably able to be satisfied in these 
circumstances that Mr C would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
Also, bearing in mind the repayment of this loan on top of the debt AvantCredit saw Mr C 
was already responsible for paying, I think its fair to say that Mr C needed to pay such a 
significant portion of his income towards credit AvantCredit shouldve realised that Mr C 
would likely struggle to repay this loan  especially bearing in mind the 24 month loan term.
I've taken into account everything that AvantCredit has said in response to our adjudicators 
view and its suggestion that using the loan for debt consolidation couldve been helpful to 
Mr C. But AvantCredit didnt have control over how Mr C used the loan as it paid the loan 
balance to him. Having seen the extent of his evident reliance on taking out expensive credit, 
I think it was apparent that there was a real risk Mr C would use the loan to meet his 
immediate financial demands. 
And even if Mr C had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think AvantCredit 
had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to 
achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation, given his 
outstanding indebtedness overall. I think its fair to say that it was reasonably foreseeable 
that Mr C would most likely remain in serious financial trouble regardless. Thinking about all the information AvantCredit had gathered, I cant reasonably say that it 
made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think 
AvantCredit was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for 
Mr C. 
So it shouldnt have provided it and AvantCredit needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not 
have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed.
If AvantCredit sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, AvantCredit should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr C having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then AvantCredit should try and arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr C 
bearing in mind its obligation to treat Mr C sympathetically and fairly if he still 
needs further time to pay
whilst its fair that Mr Cs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about 
a loan that was unfairly provided. So AvantCredit should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Cs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman