DRN-3210118
The complaint
Mr A complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited renewed his commercial motor 
insurance policy without his consent. He wants a refund of the premiums it took from his 
father, Mr Ds, credit card. Mr D is a named driver on Mr As, policy and is representing him 
in this matter. 
What happened
Mr A took out a policy which was paid for by Mr D. Mr D found that One Call had taken 
premium payments from his card details without his knowledge. Mr D said he hadnt given 
his consent for automatic renewal as he shops around each year. And so he wanted a 
refund. But One Call said Mr A or Mr D had agreed to the continuous payment authority.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr A 
had consented to automatic renewal and provided his continuous payment authority when 
he took out the policy. He thought One Call had sent Mr A renewal notices, but he hadnt 
cancelled the renewal. And so he didnt think One Call had done anything wrong or needed 
to refund the premiums. 
Mr D replied that they had paid for cover elsewhere. He said they hadnt received renewal 
letters and hadnt agreed to continuous payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive tried to understand Mr As insurance history for his van. I can see from One Calls 
records that he first took out cover with it through an online comparison site in November 
2016. The policy renewed successfully in 2017. The renewal wasnt authorised in 2018, but 
a renewal confirmation letter was sent to Mr A. The policy renewed in 2019 and 2020 with a 
November anniversary. From what I can understand, Mr D has complained about these last 
two autorenewals. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with its 
Terms of Business and fairly and reasonably. Mr A first took out his policy online and Mr D 
said the payment was made by phone using his credit card. Mr D said that in the call made 
to make his payment, he would have asked for the card details to be deleted. But One Call 
has provided evidence that the payment was made online and no calls were received from 
Mr A or Mr D. 
In the online application Mr A agreed to the continuous payment authority:
Continuous Payment Authority is a recurring payment process where you allow One Call 
Insurance to take money from your debit, credit card or PayPal account whenever we are 
owed money. Payments can vary in frequency and amount depending on what is owed at 
the time.
In allowing the Continuous Payment Authority, you let us charge any sums due to your card 
and to take payments as and when they fall due. You may cancel the Continuous Payment 
Authority at any time by telling our Compliance Team
I havent seen any evidence that Mr A contacted One Call to cancel the authority. And Mr A 
would have agreed to the automatic renewal of the policy in keeping with One Calls Terms 
of Business when he took out the policy. 
Mr D said Mr A hadnt received the renewal correspondence. But One Call has provided us 
with evidence of the emails and letters it sent to Mr A and screenshots showing that they 
were sent for the 2018, 2019 and 2020 renewals. These were sent to the correct addresses. 
So Im satisfied that the renewal notices were sent to Mr A. 
So I think One Call renewed the policy and collected payments in keeping with its Terms of 
Business. I cant say that it did anything wrong as it didnt know that the policy was no longer 
required.
One Call didnt uphold Mr As complaint about the renewals as it said it had acted within its 
Terms of Business. But it said it could ask the insurer to backdate any premiums if Mr A was 
able to provide proof of alternative cover elsewhere. 
Mr D provided a letter from another insurer stating that he was insured for the same van 
registration for the policy year from July 2020 to July 2021. But One Call said this wasnt 
showing on the Motor Insurers Database (MID), although the van was double insured from 
July 2021 to the present. 
This may be because there was an error in the registration number recorded for the van by 
the other insurer. Mr A would need to explain this to One Call. Mr A said that the van was off 
the road for some time after November 2018 whilst he saved up to have it repaired. This 
may explain the change in the policys anniversary date. One Call asked for a copy of the 
Certificate of Insurance to validate that the van was covered elsewhere, But Mr D hasnt yet 
provided this. 
I think its for Mr A to provide One Call with copies of the vans Certificates of Insurance for 
the years that he was insured elsewhere. This would allow it to ask the insurer to backdate 
the premiums, as its offered to do. From what I can see, the van is double insured at the 
present. So Mr A should contact One Call to cancel his cover if it isnt needed. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman