DRN-3579104
The complaint
Mr M complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) increased his 
insurance premium at renewal following a non-fault claim.
What happened
Mr Ms car was parked in a car park  upon his return to the car, a third-party (TP) had left a 
note on the car to say that they had reversed into Mr Ms car. Mr M says that the TP 
accepted liability for the incident, and they left their details so Mr M could claim on their 
policy for any damage. 
Mr M subsequently claimed on the TPs policy for the damage caused. And he notified 
Acromas of the incident. 
Later, Mr M received a renewal quote from Acromas, which he says had been partially 
increased due to the non-fault incident. Mr M says that the incident didnt form part of a claim 
on his policy because it was dealt with directly by the third-party insurer (TPI). 
Mr M says his complaint about Acromas is twofold. Firstly, he doesnt believe that a non-fault 
incident which didnt result in a claim on his policy ought to be a fair reason for the increase 
in his premium. Secondly, Mr M feels that Acromas should be able to provide him with a 
breakdown of the cost of his premiums.
Mr M feels he has lost out because his current and future premiums have increased, and 
Acromas wont provide him with information about his increased premiums so he can 
claim this back from the TPI.
To put things right, Mr M would like Acromas to remove the incident from his record, he 
would like to know the value of the increased premium attributed to the incident and he 
would like a reimbursement of the premium over the course of five years if it cant 
provide him with the details he has asked for. 
Acromas responded to Mr Ms complaint to say the premiums had been calculated 
correctly. It explained that insurance is an assessment of risk and the premiums are a 
reflection of that risk. It explained that one of the factors taken into account when 
calculating a premium is claims history. Acromas didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Our Investigator looked into things for Mr M, but they didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that Acromas had calculated Mr Ms premiums fairly.
Mr M didnt agree with the Investigator. He stated: I accept that the process may have 
been correct but the failure to inform me of the value of the increase as a result of the non 
fault incident, prevents me from pursuing as part of my overall claim, the loss of income / 
increased costs I will face over the next 5 years.
Because Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's normal for insurers to consider that factors, such as claims history, pose a different risk 
for which they may charge a different premium. So, Acromas increasing Mr Ms premium 
doesn't in isolation mean it has treated him unfairly. 
Its not my role to say how much an insurer should charge, what factors it should assess, or 
how much risk to attach to each of those factors. Insurance is essentially an assessment of 
risk. And we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are 
entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. 
Insurers consider many factors when setting premiums. And each insurer will take its own 
approach as to how to do that. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will make an assessment of how likely it is that their policyholders will make a claim and how 
much they might have to pay out for those. And each insurer will go about that in its own 
way. 
So, when deciding if an insurer has dealt with a consumer fairly, I look to see if its treated 
them the same as it would other consumers with similar circumstances. Ive looked at 
Acromas information about Mr Ms premiums both before and after the renewal. And I've 
looked to see how those have changed. 
The information it has used to price Mr Ms policy is commercially sensitive so I can't share 
that with him. But I can see the premiums it charged took into account the change in risk due 
to the non-fault claim, and these have resulted in an extra premium. There is also another 
element factored into the increase too, which doesnt relate to the incident. I have taken this 
other factor into account when deciding on this case, and I dont find Acromas actions to be 
unreasonable. While Mr M might find that unfair, it's not for me to tell Acromas how it should 
rate these risks or price the policy. 
From looking at the information it has provided, I think Acromas has treated Mr M in the 
same way that it would other customers in similar circumstances. 
There are some aspects of pricing we will look into further, depending on whats relevant in a 
particular complaint. This includes if the price is based on incorrect information, if consumers 
arent given clear information to make decisions with, or if a consumer doesnt have freedom 
to change insurers and choose what premium to pay. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest any of those circumstances apply to this complaint. The 
information it has used to price the policy appears to be correct, the information it has 
provided about the renewal quote is clear and I can see that the renewal quote states that 
Mr M can shop around for a better price if he wants to.
I understand Mr Ms frustrations with Acromas not providing him with a specific breakdown 
about how it has priced his policy  so he says he cant try and claim back the additional 
premium through the TPI. But as Ive said previously, this information is commercially 
sensitive, and I cant demand that Acromas shares this with Mr M. In any event, I can see 
that the policy was cancelled at renewal, so Mr M hasnt paid the increased premium.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman