DRN-4263795
The complaint
Mr T complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) and the initial repair they 
completed after he made a claim on his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T held a home insurance policy. This policy included additional home emergency (HE) 
cover, underwritten by IPA. Unfortunately, on 25 January 2023, Mr T noticed a leak 
originating from his bathroom sink, which had damaged both his bathroom floor and kitchen 
ceiling below. So, he contacted IPA to make a claim on his HE cover for the repair of the 
leak itself.
IPA accepted Mr Ts claim, and they appointed an engineer, who Ill refer to as M, to attend 
the same day. M identified the flexi-pipe linked to the sink tap had burst. So, to ensure the 
repair they completed fell in line with the scope of the cover Mr M held, they isolated the hot 
and cold-water feeds to the tap so water could be restored to the rest of the property.
Mr T called IPA the following day, and confirmed the leak had been isolated, before going 
onto discuss a permanent repair when he agreed he may either complete the work himself 
or claim through his separate home insurance policy. But two days later, Mr T discovered the 
leak had reappeared. So, he contacted IPA again.
IPA sent out another engineer, who Ill refer to as F. F attended Mr Ts home and 
completed another repair. Mr T says this repair was to fix the initial repair completed by M. 
And, that as M hadnt repaired the initial leak correctly, further damage had been caused to 
his bathroom floor and kitchen. So, he asked IPA to cover the cost of this repair work. But 
IPA refused, as they didnt think there was evidence to suggest M had failed to repair the 
original leak correctly. Mr T was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr T thought it was reasonably clear Ms first repair had failed. And, that this had resulted in 
a further 2-3 days of leak damage being caused to his property. Mr T explained that the 
initial damage, had M completed a repair correctly, couldve been repaired easily at a low 
cost. But, as the leak continued, it has now caused significant damage that would cost 
significantly more to rectify. So, he felt IPA should be responsible for this.
IPA responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They didnt think there was any 
evidence to suggest Ms initial repair had failed, referring to Mr Ts confirmation a day after 
this repair was attempted that the leak had stopped. So, IPA didnt think they should be 
responsible for the costs of the repairs needed to fix Mr Ts bathroom floor and kitchen 
ceiling. But IPA recognised Mr T required two attendances in a short space of time. And they 
recognised the upset and inconvenience this wouldve caused. So, they paid Mr T £100 to 
recognise this. Mr T remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think theyd seen 
any evidence that stated for certain Ms repair had failed. And, as Mr T confirmed there was 
damage caused to his bathroom floor and kitchen ceiling due to the original leak, they 
thought any damage Mr T now needed repairing was most likely consequential from the 
original leak, rather than anything M did wrong. So, our investigator didnt think IPA needed 
to do anything more, as they felt the £100 paid by IPA was fair to recognise the 
inconvenience Mr T wouldve been caused during the claim process.
Mr T didnt agree. He maintained that when F attended, they needed to replace the isolating 
valves initially installed by M. So, he thought it was clear the leak had continued after Ms 
attendance, due to an error by M acting on behalf of IPA. So, because of this, he maintained 
his view that IPA should be responsible for the repairs to the damage caused by the leak, 
and the associated costs. As Mr T didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to set out 
what Ive been able to consider, and how. Mr Ts complaint centres around the actions of M 
and F, while attempting to repair a leak at his home. I wasnt present at Mr Ts property 
during this time, so Im unable to say for certain exactly what did happen, or what caused the 
second leak to occur. So, in situations such as this, Ive had to decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened, based on the balance of probabilities. And as IPA werent either, 
Ive had to consider the conclusions theyve drawn, from the evidence available to them, and 
decide whether I think they acted fairly and reasonably.
It's not in dispute that there was a leak at Mr Ts property, noticed on 25 January 2023. And I 
dont think its in dispute that this leak had caused damage to Mr Ts bathroom floor, and 
kitchen ceiling, before M attended to attempt the initial repair. So, in this situation, I think Mr 
T was always likely to incur a cost to repair this damage, whether that be through his own 
finances directly or through a separate claim on his home insurance policy. And for this 
reason, I dont think there is any reasonable way for me to say IPA should be responsible for 
the entire repairs, and the costs of these, as their role as the HE cover provided is to resolve 
the actual emergency, not rectify the damage the emergency caused.
But, that being said, I would expect IPA to ensure the emergency, in this situation the leak, is 
resolved as quickly as possible, to minimise the damage caused. I note IPA instructed M to 
attend Mr Ts property the same day the claim was reported. So, I think they acted swiftly, as 
Id expect.
And Ive seen from Ms job notes that they were unable to complete a full, permanent repair 
as the leak was linked to Mr Ms taps, which were over a certain age. So, they completed a 
temporary repair, isolating the water feeds so water was able to be restored to the rest of the 
house. Having seen the photos of the isolated feeds, while they were behind the sink, I think 
they were visible and crucially, had this work not stopped the leak, I think it wouldve been 
clear at the time the water was reinstated to the property.
On 26 January, the day after M completed this work, Ive seen notes of a conversation Mr T 
held with IPA. Had the leak continued, I wouldve expected Mr T to have raised this during 
this conversation. But I cant see that he did and so, I think its reasonable for me to assume that, on the balance of probabilities, the repair M completed had stopped the leak at this 
point.
There was then a period of two days before Mr T reported a second leak on 28 January. And 
Im satisfied IPA acted swiftly again, instructed a different engineer, F, to attend. While I 
appreciate why Mr T would expect M to re-attend, and I think this wouldve been preferential, 
I dont think this means IPA acted unfairly here.
Mr T says that F was forced to remove incorrectly installed isolate valves initially installed by 
M. But this isnt confirmed in Fs job notes. Instead, the job notes only provide a very basic 
description of the work done, explaining the flexi-valve to the basin had been capped off and 
made safe. So, I dont think this confirms for definite that the work completed by M was 
faulty, or incorrect.
So, without this confirmation and considering Mr T spoke to IPA the day after Ms initial 
repair where no further issues were reported, I dont think there was any information 
available to IPA that confirmed, beyond reasonable doubt, that M had done anything wrong 
when repairing the leak initially. And because of this, I dont think I can say IPA should be 
responsible for, or contribute to, the costs of repairing the damage caused to Mr Ts 
bathroom floor and kitchen ceiling.
But I do think it wasnt unreasonable for Mr T to expect IPA to ensure an effective repair was 
completed on their first attendance. And in this situation, I think its clear that there was a 
second leak. While I cant say this was the fault of the work of M, I do recognise how Mr T 
would come to this conclusion. And, I do appreciate the inconvenience having to be 
available for two attendances wouldve caused. 
IPA have currently paid Mr T £100, to recognise this inconvenience and any failings in their 
service overall. Having considered this payment, I think its a fair one, that falls in line with 
our services approach and what I wouldve recommended had it not already been put 
forward.
I think it fairly recognises the fact Mr T required two different engineers to attend his home to 
ensure the leaks situated around his bathroom sink were stopped, which I appreciate 
wouldve been inconvenient. But I think it also recognises that there is no tangible evidence 
that states for certain the first repair M complete was faulty, or incorrect. And, that Mr T 
confirmed there was already damage caused to his bathroom floor and kitchen ceiling by the 
first leak, before M attempted the first repair. So, there would be no way of knowing for sure 
what damage was caused before IPAs involvement, and after. And even if this could be 
determined, I think it recognises the fact IPA provided the HE cover only, which isnt 
intended to repair damage caused by the emergency and that this would be the 
responsibility of the home insurance policy provider, under a separate claim altogether.
So, because of all the above, I dont think IPA need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Inter Partner 
Assistance SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Josh HaskeyOmbudsman