DRN-4515774
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam, or to help him recover the money once hed reported 
the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr L was looking to increase his income to pay off his mortgage and had heard colleagues 
discussing cryptocurrency. He had previously invested a small amount in traditional stocks 
and shares and had a basic knowledge of investing, so he did some research to gain a basic 
understanding of how cryptocurrency worked.
In November 2021, he opened an account with a cryptocurrency exchange company Ill refer 
to as F and on 5 November 2021 he paid £10 to it with no intervention from HSBC, 
followed by £450 on 29 December 2021. 
Shortly afterwards, one of his colleagues recommended a social media account that he 
should follow which belonged to someone Ill refer to as the scammer. The account 
provided live updates on the cryptocurrency market and included information on how 
different currencies were performing. The majority of the posts were based on trading and 
investing with the occasional personal post, so Mr L believed the scammer was an 
experienced cryptocurrency trader. 
On 25 January 2022, Mr L responded to a post from the scammer and they began to 
communicate. The scammer told Mr L he would introduce him to a secret trading platform 
and sent him a link to a trading platform Ill refer to as C. Mr L couldnt see any negative 
reviews about C and it was registered by the Financial Services in Antigua, with a company 
address in Florida. The website included a live-chat function, an about us section, FAQs, a 
contact us page and a timeline showing how the company started. There was also a live 
market chart detailing the current trade prices, and Mr L could see it was endorsed by 
Bitcoin and Ethereum. 
To sign up to the trading platform, Mr L had to provide his name, email address, and contact 
number. The scammer said he would have to buy cryptocurrency from F, before transferring 
the coins to a wallet on the trading platform.  He explained he would guide him on how to 
trade, describing himself as a mentor. On 28 January 2022, Mr L made an initial payment of 
£300 and between 28 January 2022 and 30 March 2022 he made sixteen transfers to F 
totalling £35,650 from his HSBC account.
On 28 March 2022, Mr L decided to withdraw £100 from his trading account, but when he 
asked the scammer if he could withdraw more of his profits, he was told he would need to 
pay VAT. He eventually realised hed been scammed when he still didnt receive his funds 
and he didnt receive a response from customer service. 
Mr L complained to HSBC but it refused to refund any of the money hed lost. It said he had 
access to the cryptocurrency account so it was unable to refund any of the payments and he 
should contact the cryptocurrency exchange as the money was lost from there. It explained 
its fraud detection system is based on current fraud trends, meaning not all payments will 
flag for additional checks, and customers should carry out their own due diligence by 
checking if investment companies are registered with the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and seeking independent financial advice.
Mr L wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative. He said he received no contact from HSBC when he made the payments and 
he wanted it to refund the money hed lost plus £500 compensation and any legal costs 
resulting from the scam.
His representative said the payments had the hallmarks of an investment scam and HSBC 
had missed several opportunities to intervene. They said the first payment should have been 
a red flag and that if HSBC had identified the payments as unusual and suspicious it would 
have realised Mr L was falling victim to an investment scam. They said he was transferring 
funds to a new payee linked to cryptocurrency and it should have asked relevant questions 
and advised him about the potential risks, which would have prevented him from making 
further payments.
HSBC confirmed there were no fraud warnings or calls because the payments didnt flag on 
its fraud system. It said Mr L had made payments to the payee before the scam so it would 
have been a trusted beneficiary at this stage.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied the payments Mr 
L made to the scam before 28 March 2022 werent significant enough in value to have 
triggered an intervention. But even though F was an established payee, she thought the 
£7,800 payment he made on 28 March 2022 shouldve been blocked. 
She accepted Mr L had paid out larger sums on 1 June 2021 (£4,700),  21 November 2021 
(£17,878) and 27 January 2022 (£3,200), but she thought HSBC should have contacted him 
and asked probing questions about why he was sending such large amounts of money to a 
cryptocurrency merchant and had it done so, she was satisfied Mr L would have explained 
that hed found a mentor on social media who had advised him to use a trading platform 
which was registered outside of the UK. 
With this information she was satisfied HSBC wouldve realised there were red flags present 
and provided scam education which would have uncovered the scam. Because of this, she 
was satisfied that HSBC had failed to intervene in circumstances which could have 
prevented the scam and that it should refund the money Mr L had lost from 29 March 2022 
onwards.
Our investigator also explained that Mr L had spoken to colleagues who had successfully 
traded in cryptocurrency and the scammers social media page was recommended by 
someone who he knew and trusted. He was new to cryptocurrency and wouldnt have known 
it was important to use a platform that was registered with the FCA, so she didnt think he 
had contributed to his own loss. Finally, she recommended HSBC should pay Mr L £150 
compensation for failing to protect him from financial harm.
HSBC has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. It has argued the 
payments werent out of character as Mr L had made previous payments to F. And there 
were other payments of higher value, so in the context of the previous account activity, the 
transactions werent remarkable and didnt warrant intervention. It has also said that even if it 
had intervened, Mr L would probably have proceeded with the payments as he was satisfied that it was registered with the Financial Services in Antigua and he would have relied on his 
colleagues experiences.
Finally, it has stated that if it is required to refund Mr Ls losses, the settlement should be 
reduced by 50% for contributory negligence, arguing that he wasnt an inexperienced 
investor and he was probably promised returns that were too good to be true.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr L says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. But the code didnt apply in this case because Mr L 
was paying an account in his own name.
Im satisfied Mr L authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Theres no dispute that this was a scam, but although Mr L didnt intend his money to go to 
scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, HSBC 
ought to fairly and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of 
a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr L when 
he tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, 
Id expect HSBC to intervene with a view to protecting Mr L from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on HSBCs systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr L 
normally ran his account and I agree with our investigator that the first ten payments werent 
unusual or suspicious because Mr L was paying an established payee which was a 
legitimate merchant, and none of the payment were for particularly large amounts. 
However, on 28 March 2022, Mr L made a payment of £7,800 to F and I agree that HSBC 
should have intervened at that point. This is because, even though F was an established 
payee that Mr L had paid on 12 previous occasions, the payment amount had increased 
significantly and by this time hed paid over £19,000 to a cryptocurrency merchant in respect 
of which HSBC had never asked him any questions or provided any warnings. Significantly, 
in the previous November and December, hed only paid £10 and £450 to F and the 
payments had increased in frequency and value from January to March.I accept there were some higher value payments in the months before the scam, but the 
payment of £17,878 was to HMRC, and the other two payments were for a kitchen and were 
made nine months before the disputed payments, so I dont think the existence of those low-
risk payments means the later scam payments werent concerning. 
For these reasons, I think HSBC should have contacted Mr L and asked him whether there 
was a third party involved and if so how he met them, whether hed been advised to 
download remote access software to his device, whether hed been allowed to make any 
withdrawals, whether hed been promised unrealistic returns and whether hed been advised 
to make an onwards payment from the cryptocurrency exchange.
Theres no evidence Mr L had been coached to lie and so Im satisfied hed have told HSBC 
he was being advised by someone hed met on social media who had told him to use a 
trading platform that wasnt registered in the UK and that hed been advised to make an 
onwards payment to a wallet address provide to him by the scammer.
There were no warnings about C on either the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or 
International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOCSO) websites, but Im satisfied 
that HSBC would have had enough information to have identified that the investment was a 
scam and so it should have provided a very robust scam warning. It should also have told 
him there were red flags present suggesting the investment was a scam and provided advice 
on additional due diligence.
Theres no evidence Mr L was keen to take risks with his money therefore Im satisfied hed 
have listened to this advice and done some more research which would have ultimately 
uncovered the scam. Because of this, Im satisfied that HSBCs failure to intervene on 28 
March 2022 represented a missed opportunity to have prevented Mr Ls loss and so it should 
refund the money he lost from that point onwards.
Contributory negligence
I accept theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their 
decisions and conduct suitable due diligence but, in the circumstances, I dont think Mr L 
was to blame for the fact he didnt foresee the risk. 
In recent years instances of individuals making large amounts of money by trading in 
cryptocurrency have been highly publicised to the extent that I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mr L to have believed what he was told by the scammer in terms of the 
returns he was told were possible. In any event, he has explained that he could see his 
money fluctuate with the trades the scammer was making on his behalf and that was told the 
more he invested, the larger the profits he would make, which I dont think is unreasonable. 
Mr L was referred to the scammers social media account by a colleague and he was 
satisfied it had a number of followers and appeared genuine. He was also satisfied the 
trading platform seemed genuine and professional and I dont think it was unreasonable for 
him to have believed C was regulated outside of the UK.
He has explained he had some very limited investment experience, but this was a 
sophisticated scam and he hadnt invested in cryptocurrency before, so I dont think he can 
fairly be held responsible for his own loss.
CompensationOur investigator has recommended that HSBC should pay Mr L £150 compensation for the 
impact of its failure to protect him from the scam and in the circumstance Im satisfied thats 
fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should: 
refund the money Mr L lost from the first payment he made on 28 March 2022 
onwards.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
pay £150 compensation
*If HSBC UK Bank Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Mr L with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman