DRN-3210289
The complaint
Mr K complains that he was mis-sold a fee-paying travel pack (TP) with his account in 2014 
and 2018 by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K says that he was pressurised into taking the TPs when they werent suitable for him 
and he used them very little.
Barclays says that it recommended the TP to Mr K in 2014 in a discussion on the phone and 
it was suitable for his circumstances at that time. Barclays says the 2018 sale was done by 
Mr K online, and it provided all the information for him to make his own decision.
Ive looked at the two sales separately as below.
TP sale in 2014
In 2014, Mr K had previously had a fee free account with an overdraft, and hed had a fee-
paying packaged bank account with Barclays for many years.
Both free and fee-paying bank accounts with overdrafts were widely available and advertised 
by Barclays and other banks and financial institutions at the time.
So if Barclays had tried to pressurise Mr K into taking a TP and he didnt want one, I think its 
more likely than not he would have declined and looked and found the kind of account he 
wanted elsewhere.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr K was aware he had a choice whether to take out 
the TP, and he chose to do so.
As Barclays were recommending the TP to Mr K and advising him to take it out, it was 
required to ensure the TP was suitable for Mr K and provide him with all the information he 
needed to make an informed decision.
Both parties agree there was substantial discussion during the sale, and Mr K remembers 
hearing about the key elements of the product.
Barclays has also provided evidence that it sent him a welcome pack with all the information 
straight after the sale.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr K had the information he needed and there wasnt 
anything that he was not told that would put him off the TP.
Mr K and Barclays have also provided evidence that Mr K travelled with his family; that he 
had a car; and that he used the fee free overdraft facility that came with the account.
So, in my view, I cant say that the TP was unsuitable for Mr K as I would need to if I were to 
uphold his complaint on this point.
So, I think its more likely than not that Barclays didnt do anything wrong in the 2014 sale.
TP sale in 2018
In my view its more likely than not that Mr K knew he had a choice whether to take out the 
TP in 2018 and chose to do so for the same reasons as I gave above for the 2014 sale. 
Barclays has provided evidence, which Mr K has not disagreed with, that the 2018 TP sale 
was done online. So, in my view this would be a non-advised sale as no discussion or 
recommendation took place.
So, the only requirement on Barclays in this sale was to provide with enough information to 
Mr K for him to make an informed decision.
And I think Barclays did. I say this because it has provided evidence that Mr K would have 
had to go through a series of screens online which provided him with the cost and benefits 
information and then he wouldve had to agree to the terms and conditions for the sale to 
take place.
So, again, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman