DRN-1521771
The complaint
Ms G complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax rejected her chargeback and 
Section 75 claims when she complained about issues shed experienced whilst on holiday.
What happened
On 2 July 2019 Ms G booked a short holiday abroad using a booking website. Ms G paid for 
flights and three nights accommodation using her Halifax card. The total cost was £973.03 
with £599.29 of this being the cost of accommodation.
Ms G arrived at the hotel on 13 august 2019. She experienced several issues during her 
stay about which she was unhappy, including:
Poor service
Air conditioning in room turned off by hotel staff
Live music event on hotel roof
Crowded lifts
Ms G was unable to obtain a refund from the hotel so she complained to the booking agent. 
It said it wasnt responsible because Ms Gs contract was with the hotel. Mr G complained to 
Halifax and asked to raise a chargeback/section 75 claim.
Halifax said it couldnt raise a section 75 claim because of the third-party booking agents 
involvement. It initially told Mrs G that a chargeback claim could be raised but later said it 
was unable to do this. Halifax offered Ms G compensation of £100 for inaccurate information 
but declined to uphold her complaint about the holiday. Ms G accepted the £100 but 
remained unhappy about the outcome of her chargeback/section 75 claim and complained to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the rules of section 75 and 
chargeback didnt allow Halifax to refund Ms G in these circumstances.
Ms G didnt agree. She said the hotel had deliberately withdrawn air conditioning which she 
believed was a breach of contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75
I appreciate that Ms G didnt have the holiday she was hoping for and I understand why she 
wants the cost of the accommodation refunded. However, I dont think Halifax need to do 
anything further here. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial services 
provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 
75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair and reasonable way to resolve Ms Gs complaint, Ive 
taken section 75 into account. But this doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome 
as, for instance, a court might reach if Ms G pursued a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and services must be 
performed with reasonable care and skill. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can 
be said to have occurred. In order to show that theres been a misrepresentation, Ms G 
would need to establish that the business made an untrue statement of fact which induced 
her to enter into the contract.
Ive considered all the issues complained about by Ms G. I wont comment on all of them but 
will focus on those which I think are most relevant.
In relation to the air conditioning, I can see that this is shown as being available in all rooms 
in at the hotel. Ms G has said that the air condition was turned off by hotel staff. Shes 
explained that the weather was hot and that she expected the air conditioning to be 
functioning all the time. Ms G has also provided documents which she says show that the 
hotel admitted turning off the air conditioning.
I have no reasons to doubt what Ms G says about the air conditioning not functioning all the 
time. And I understand that this would have caused her discomfort. However, theres nothing 
to suggest that the air conditioning wasnt functioning generally, or that it was turned off 
deliberately. In order to find that theres been a breach of contract, I would need to be 
persuaded that the air conditioning wasnt working at all. But this isnt what Ms G has said. 
Shes said that it was turned off on one occasion when there was an entertainment event 
taking place on the hotel roof. Whilst I appreciate that this may have caused her 
inconvenience, Im unable to say that it amounts to a breach of contract.
In relation to the lifts being busy, I understand that this wouldve been frustrating. However, 
theres no evidence to suggest that the lifts werent functioning, so Im unable to say that 
theres been a breach of contract.
Its clear from what Ms G has said that the live music event disturbed her. Theres nothing in 
the description of the hotel which says whether live music is a regular occurrence. But the 
description does say that theres summertime entertainment on the hotel roof bar, so I think 
Ms G ought reasonably to have been aware that some form of entertainment might take 
place during her stay. Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that this amounts to a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
Ive thought about whether theres been a misrepresentation here. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the business made an untrue statement of fact about the hotel or its 
facilities which induced Ms G to enter into the contract. 
I agree with the investigator that Halifax shouldve investigated this claim. Im satisfied that 
there is a DCS link. However, on the available evidence, Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence to say that theres been a breach of contract.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a scheme which gives the consumer an opportunity to get money back if 
goods are faulty or not delivered, or if a service isnt provided. It works in a similar way to 
section 75 but it isnt a legal requirement and is subject to the credit card issuers own rules.I agree with Halifax that the chargeback rules dont apply to the circumstance of this 
complaint. The hotel accommodation which Ms G booked and paid for was provided. Her 
complaint is not, therefore, about the non-provision of a service, but rather a complaint that 
things werent as she expected them to be.
I can see that Halifax initially told Ms G that it would consider a chargeback claim. This 
advice was incorrect. Halifax has acknowledged this and has paid £100 compensation. I 
think this was a fair offer.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to say that Halifax has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in relation to Ms Gs complaint and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman