DRN-3717893
The complaint
Mr A complains about the service he has received from his mortgage lender, UCB Home 
Loans Corporation Ltd.
What happened
Mr A made several phone calls to UCB in January 2022. He complains about UCBs 
treatment of him on those calls, including that its staff gave him wrong information, hung up 
on him, failed to arrange callbacks, and told him not to get rowdy and to shut up.
UCB reviewed Mr As contact with it and apologised for the way its staff had treated him on 
some of his calls with it. It also offered Mr A £250 by way of compensation, plus the cost of 
the calls he made to it between 24 and 27 January 2022. 
Mr A wasnt happy with that, so he asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into his 
complaint. Our Investigator thought UCBs offer to put things right was a fair one, so he 
didnt recommend it do or pay any more.
Mr A didnt accept that. He said that he was caused significant and long-lasting distress as a 
result of UCBs treatment of him and, in particular, of having been told to shut up by a 
member of staff. He said £250 doesnt reflect the seriousness of what happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that UCB treated Mr A poorly. UCB has accepted that, apologised, and 
offered some compensation. The level of compensation is what I must determine here.
Ive listened to all the available recordings of the calls Mr A has complained about here  
including the one in which its staff member told him to shut up. I think its clear from the calls 
that Mr A was frustrated by the difficulties he was having trying to get through to someone 
who could help him. Its also clear that he was upset and distressed at being told to shut up. 
I recognise as well that making a number of phone calls cost Mr A time and inconvenience. 
Mr A has taken issue with the Investigators assessment of the impact on him of UCBs 
failings. He says he should fairly receive more compensation than UCB has offered, and that 
there must be an element of deterrence in the Financial Ombudsmans awards. He also still 
considers that parts of this complaint should have been dealt with separately in the light of 
the seriousness of what went wrong.
As our Investigator explained, complaint-handling isnt, of itself, a regulated activity. In any 
event, I dont accepts that treating this complaint as one rather than two or more complaints 
dilutes the seriousness of UCBs failings.
I take into account all the circumstances in making my decisions; here, that includes how Mr 
A has himself described the impact of what happened on him, but also how UCB responded 
to the complaint. UCB accepted it had got things wrong, said sorry to Mr A, and tried to put 
things right. 
I must also bear in mind the general levels of awards the Financial Ombudsman Service 
makes for non-financial loss. There are some case studies about this on our website which 
Mr A may find helpful. 
I think its clear that UCB has caused Mr A some distress, upset, inconvenience, and 
frustration. I also recognise that Mr A spent time on repeated calls to UCB. Nonetheless, in 
all the circumstances, I conclude that UCBs apology and offer of £250 compensation, plus 
call costs, represent a fair and reasonable outcome. So I make no further order or award.
Putting things right
UCB has already made an offer to pay £250 plus call costs to settle this complaint, and I 
consider that this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd should pay Mr A £250, plus the 
cost of Mr As calls to it between 24 and 27 January 2022, subject to evidence of that cost.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman