DRN-3553528
The complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to protect him from the loss of 
credit card payments to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr N has explained that in 2016 he made the following payments using his Barclays credit 
card to a merchant going by the name of TorOption, which he later realised was an 
investment scam. 
 
Transaction number Date Amount (£) 
1 06 September 2016 300 
2 08 September 2016 10,000 
4 24 October 2016 8,170.60 
5 11 November 2016 4,091.15 
6 11 November 2016 5,105.27 
7 15 December 2016 6,713.46 
Total 34,380.48 
 
Mr N received a credit from TorOption to his Barclays credit card account on 10 October 
2016 for £10,000. He also incurred some non-Sterling transaction fees in relation to 
transactions 4 to 7 above but these are included in the total amounts above, not just for 
simplicity, but also because this is the way they are presented on Mr Ns Barclays credit card 
account statements. 
 
Mr N got in touch with Barclays to report hed been scammed. When Barclays said it 
wouldnt reimburse his losses, Mr N referred his complaint about Barclays to this service. As 
our investigator (who recommended that the complaint be upheld) was unable to resolve the 
matter informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint, for materially the same reasons as the investigator, as 
explained further in my email to Barclays dated 16 September 2022. Ill explain why. 
 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) 
 
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint about all the 
payments (which were all credit card payments) on the basis that Barclays is liable under 
section 75. As a starting point, its useful to set out what section 75 actually says: 
 
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any 
claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, 
shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor. 
 
(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim  
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item which the supplier has 
attached a cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000 
 
To summarise, there must therefore be: 
 
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and 
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and 
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to the transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item to which the supplier attached a cash 
price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000. 
 
Ill deal with each of these requirements in turn. 
 
First, there doesnt seem to be any dispute that a credit card account is the relevant debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement under the Act. And Im satisfied here there is nothing that 
breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  insomuch as and whilst there are three parties 
involved: 
 
1. Mr N (the debtor); 
2. Barclays (the creditor); 
3. TorOption (the supplier). 
 
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
 
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by 
the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of the deal. Here, Mr N 
deposited funds for use on an investment platform and to be able to withdraw them as and 
when he wished. Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  
Im satisfied there was a transaction for this deposit (which Ill call the deposit-transaction) 
as defined by the Act. 
 
To finance (or financed by the agreement) is also not defined under the Act. An ordinary 
definition would be to provide funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB 
Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal 
agreed, The phrase to finance Approaching the matter in a common sense way, the 
phrase must mean provide financial accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer 
clearly provides financial accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to his purchases from 
suppliers, because he is given time to pay for his purchases under the terms of the credit 
card agreement. 
 
Applying this ordinary definition here, if Mr N had not used his credit card he would have had 
to find the cash from his own resources to fund the deposit-transactions. So, its clear that 
the deposit-transactions were financed by the agreement. 
 
Third, the claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract must relate to the transaction. Its
important to consider what Mr Ns claim is here. Its evident from his testimony and 
correspondence that he feels he was tricked into depositing the payments with TorOption 
which had the dual purpose of: 
 a) stealing the deposit money; and 
b) encouraging Mr N to deposit further amounts. 
 
Mr N does not believe that TorOption was operating legitimately and believes he was 
misled into thinking it was. 
 
This claim, that Mr N was misled into depositing funds, is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transactions. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. In this case, if Mr N was told by TorOption matters that were factually untrue to 
trick him into the deposit-transactions, his claim would be for misrepresentation. Or, if 
TorOption made binding promises to him as part of the transaction(s) and went on to breach 
these, that would make his claim one for breach of contract. 
 
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of each deposit-transaction 
is the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
 
Barclays seems to have taken the position that section 75 doesnt apply because the 
deposits were nothing more than transferring money onto another account, opened for the 
purpose of speculating with the money, rather than being payments for the purchase of 
goods or services. However, when funds are deposited onto a trading account this isnt    
necessarily just a transfer of money between accounts; the deposits may also have been 
made in return for something. And in this case, I am satisfied TorOption made contractual 
promises in exchange for the deposit-transactions. Its important to note that section 75 
doesnt use the term purchase of goods or services nor is there anything within the Act that 
would exclude the present type of transactions. 
 
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that section 75 does apply to these credit card 
deposit-transactions. Ill therefore go on to consider whether Mr N has a valid claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. 
 
Misrepresentation 
 
I consider Mr N has made a claim of misrepresentation by TorOption  that claim being that 
it represented to him that it was a legitimate enterprise when this was not the case. 
 
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show a false statement of 
fact and that this induced Mr N into entering into an agreement. 
 
A false statement of fact 
 
If Im satisfied that the merchant was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise  one 
through which Mr N could have ever received back more money than he deposited  then it 
follows that any statements made by TorOption to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation. 
 
So, the mere suggestion that Mr N could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade. And, Im satisfied, based on Mr Ns account of events and the overall circumstances, 
that TorOption did state that Mr N could make money from the trading platform. 
 
that induced Mr N into entering the agreement 
 Again, if TorOption was essentially a scam designed to relieve investors of their money, 
rather than a legitimate service  and if Mr N had known this  theres really little question: 
he would not have invested with TorOption. Consequently, should I be satisfied that 
TorOption wasnt a legitimate enterprise then inducement will also be demonstrated. 
 
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise? 
 
Taking everything together I think it is most likely that TorOption was not operating a 
legitimate enterprise. I say this because: 
 
Before January 2018 (i.e. at the time of Mr Ns payments to TorOption), and 
reflecting the risky nature of such products, binary-options traders operating in the 
UK were required to be regulated by the Gambling Commission  whereas, from 
what I can see, TorOption was not. Nor were they regulated in any other jurisdiction 
so far as I am reasonably aware. This indicates they were operating illegally, 
probably with dishonest intentions. Legitimate firms tend to comply with regulatory 
requirements. 
There is an FCA warning about TorOption dated 7 March 2018, at a time when 
binary-options traders operating in the UK were required to be regulated by the FCA 
 stating the FCA believed TorOption to be providing financial services or products 
without FCA authorisation. Whilst this warning post-dates Mr Ns payments to 
TorOption, it adds weight to the likelihood that TorOption was not operating a 
legitimate enterprise. 
There are a number of other warnings about TorOption in the public domain. The 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) is an international 
body that brings together the worlds securities regulators. The IOSCOs Investor 
Alerts Portal shows a number of warnings about TorOption which, whilst all post-
dating Mr Ns payments, indicate to me TorOption was most likely not a legitimate 
enterprise.  
There is also a wealth of reviews online about TorOption being a scam. And I have 
found Mr Ns account of events persuasive. 
I understand Mr N received a credit of £10,000 back from TorOption to his Barclays 
credit card account (which is the only credit relevant to this case). But there is 
nothing unusual about this. Typically, its done to hook the victim in and to keep them 
sufficiently satisfied and placated, to potentially induce them into further deposits. 
 
This means I think it is most likely TorOption was not operating a legitimate enterprise, and I 
think it made misrepresentations to Mr N  specifically that it was a genuine enterprise 
through which he could have got back more than his deposits from the platform. Im also 
satisfied that if Mr N had known this, he wouldnt have deposited any money, so he was 
induced into the contract on the basis of these misrepresentations. 
 
What damage was caused by the misrepresentation 
 
The legal test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, where a person has been 
fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction, is that they are entitled to recover from the 
wrongdoer all the damage directly flowing from the transaction: Smith New Court Securities 
v Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) [1997] AC 254. This implies two hurdles that 
must be surmounted before any item of loss becomes recoverable from the wrongdoer: 
 a) The loss would not have been suffered if the relevant transaction had not been 
entered into between the parties. This is the factual but for test for causation; and 
b) The loss must be the direct consequence of that transaction (whether or not it was 
foreseeable) or be the foreseeable consequence of the transaction. 
 
Transaction fees 
 
The transaction fees linked to the credit card deposit-transactions are somewhat straight 
forward to cover off. Had the deposit-transactions not have occurred, the transaction fees 
couldnt have occurred. The transaction fees were a direct consequence of the deposit-
transactions. So, Im satisfied Mr Ns payment of the transaction fees was consequential loss 
in misrepresentation. 
 
Breach of contract 
 
Ive not considered breach of contract because Im satisfied Mr N can claim back the full 
amount taken from his credit card through a claim under misrepresentation. 
Putting things right
Ive explained, in relation to these credit card payments, why Im satisfied Mr N has a claim 
for misrepresentation, on the basis that TorOption misrepresented matters, namely that it 
was operating a legitimate enterprise and he could earn a profit from his deposit-
transactions. Barclays should pay Mr N £24,380.48 (this is the total of the payments less the 
£10,000 credit), plus interest from the date of loss to the date of settlement calculated at 8% 
simple per year.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Mr N £24,380.48, plus interest calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement. If Barclays deducts tax from this interest, it should provide Mr N with 
the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman