DRN-4265387
The complaint
Ms C complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (WICEL) took the decision
to cancel her car insurance policy. As a result, she has been charged fees which she doesnt 
find to be fair.
What happened
I previously issued my provisional decision on this case. It was my intention to come to a 
different outcome to the investigator. And so before I came to my final decision, I wanted to 
give both parties the chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to take into 
account.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
On 17 November 2022, Ms C took out a car insurance policy through a broker and paid the
annual premium in full which was £520.34. The policy was underwritten by WICEL.
On 21 November 2022, the broker wrote to Ms C to get some more information about the
named driver on the policy. Upon receipt of this information, WICEL found that the named
driver had a motoring conviction that wasnt disclosed at the time the cover was taken out.
Because of this, on 5 December 2022, the broker wrote to Ms C to let her know that WICEL
had taken the decision to cancel the cover  and no insurance would be in place after 12
December 2022.
Ms C was unhappy with WICELs decision. She was also unhappy she didnt get a full refund
of the premium, and that she was charged £75 to cancel the cover.
The broker responded to Ms Cs complaint on behalf of WICEL, however they didnt uphold
it. It referred to the policy wording and said WICEL could cancel a policy where a
policyholder deliberately or recklessly tells it something that isnt true. And because Ms C
didnt disclose the driving conviction for the named driver, when asked during the application
process, it thought it had fairly cancelled the policy. It also explained that Ms C wouldnt
receive a full refund of premium because it had covered her between 17 November 2022 to
8 December 2022.
Unhappy with WICELs response, Ms C approached this service.
The Investigator considered Ms Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. They found that Ms C
made a misrepresentation during the application process when she didnt disclose the 
driving conviction for the named driver  and they agreed with WICEL that the
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. Because of this, they said the rules insurers
follow allow it to cancel a policy and so the Investigator didnt think WICEL had done
anything wrong.
Ms C disagreed with the Investigator and asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision, and
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it is my current intention to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
WICEL thinks Ms C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when
she answered no to the following question when she took out the policy online:
Have they [named driver] had any driving related convictions, endorsements, penalties,
disqualifications or bans in the last 5 years
There is also an information box Ms C could have clicked on for more information  had she
done this, the information would have said:
Offence codes and penalty points are recorded against the driver record. Details for the last
four years can be found by visiting www.gov.uk/view-driving-license. However, please note
that insurance providers require you to declare up to five years driving history.
Ms C answered No to this question.
Once WICEL were in receipt of the named drivers driving license, it identified that the
named driver received a SP50 in 2019  and so it said Ms C had deliberately or recklessly
answered the question.
Im satisfied the question about the driving convictions was clear and specific. So, based on
what Ive seen, I dont think Ms C took reasonable care in answering the question as she did.
So there does appear to have been a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider whether Ms Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying
misrepresentation. In other words, whether the incorrect information Ms C provided would
have made any difference to the terms WICEL would have offered her.
To that end, WICEL has provided this service with an email to say that it would have offered
Ms C a policy, even if shed answered the question correctly. However, it would have
charged a higher premium for the cover.
So, Im satisfied Ms Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Ive also thought about how WICEL classified the misrepresentation. WICEL said Ms Cs
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, rather than careless. It felt it was Ms Csresponsibility to answer the question to the best of her knowledge  and it said she had
clearly failed to do this, because she didnt read the question which was asked. But it hasnt
provided us with much more evidence than this to support what its said.
Ms C told us that she didnt think she needed to declare the driving conviction because she
thought it was spent  she referred to some legislation to support why she thought this.
So, while I accept that Ms C didnt answer the question correctly, WICEL hasnt sent me any
more information or evidence to support why it thinks Ms C answered the question in a way
that was deliberate or reckless. And based on what both parties have said, I dont think I can
agree that Ms C was deliberate or reckless when she made the misrepresentation, rather I
find that it was careless.
Im currently satisfied Ms Cs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, and so Ive
looked at the actions WICEL can take in accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA sets out what an insurer is entitled to do when theres a qualifying misrepresentation.
It says that if the qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless (which is what WICEL
has said in this case), it can avoid the policy, refuse all claims and it doesnt have to return
the premium.
For the reasons Ive already explained, I dont agree that Ms C made a deliberate or reckless
misrepresentation, rather I think she was careless when she answered the question. And so,
Ill focus on the remedies for a careless misrepresentation as set out in CIDRA.
If a policy holder makes a careless misrepresentation, an insurer is entitled to change the
terms of the policy and/or reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on any future claim.
It can also avoid a policy altogether if it can provide evidence to show that it wouldnt have
offered the cover on any terms, or it can cancel the cover by giving the insured reasonable
notice or allow the insured to cancel the cover themselves.
WICEL has sent this service an email to say that it would have offered cover, but it would
have charged a higher premium. But, as far as Im aware, it didnt offer Ms C to pay a higher
premium or offer her the policy on different terms. It could have also asked Ms C if she
wanted to remove the named driver from the policy  given that the motor conviction wasnt
for her (the policyholder).
While CIDRA does allow an insurer to cancel a policy after giving notice, I dont think this
remedy would be fair and reasonable in this case. Cancelling a policy can have a long-
lasting impact on an individual and there are other remedies that WICEL could, and in my
view, should have taken that wouldnt have caused Ms C as much detriment.
I presume Ms C has since been able to obtain a new policy with a different provider, so I
wont ask WICEL to offer her the policy on different terms. But I intend to order WICEL to put
things right for Ms C by doing what Ive said below:
Refund £75 cancellation fee. I appreciate WICEL say it didnt charge the fee, and it is 
the broker that has this. But WICEL made the decision to cancel the policy when it 
should and could have offered it to Ms C on different terms. Ms C might not have 
needed to pay the £75 fee if shed chosen to continue with the cover on different 
terms. And so, I think she has potentially lost out here.
Pay Ms C 8% simple annual interest on the £75 from the date it withheld the charge, 
up until the date it repays it.
Remove the cancellation from all external databases.Provide Ms C with a letter to say that it had incorrectly avoided her cover so she can 
present this to her current and future insurers if required.
Pay Ms C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of cancelling the 
cover.
I have noted that Ms C says she wants a refund of the full premium. But there was a period
of time where Ms C was provided cover by WICEL, and so its fair that she pay the premium
for this. So, I dont think WICEL needs to refund Ms C the premium for the time she was on
cover.
I have also noted Ms Cs comments in that she feels the issue shes had is because of the
brokers inadequate systems not requesting old information for convictions. I cant hold
WICEL responsible for the brokers systems. But I would add that it is the responsibility of
the policyholder to provide accurate information to the insurer. It is also fair and reasonable
for an insurer to rely on the information provided by the policyholder. In this case, it was Ms
Cs responsibility to disclose the motor conviction to WICEL, it isnt up to WICEL to find this
out themselves by carrying out additional checks.
Ms C responded to the provisional decision to say that she accepted it.
WICEL responded, however it didnt agree the misrepresentation Ms C made should be 
considered as careless as opposed to it being deliberate or reckless. It stated that in Ms Cs 
own submissions to this service, where Ms C said:
Their application forms made no mention of sharing spent convictions so we didn't mention 
one that was spent.
However, WICEL stated that the application form didnt differentiate between spent or 
unspent convictions. It clearly states convictions within the last five years. WICEL say that 
Ms C made a choice not to declare the conviction.
It has also referred to Ms Cs original complaint where shes said:
I refer you to the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 which state 'Once a conviction is 
spent it never has to be disclosed to insurers'
WICEL state this is evidence Ms C deliberately withheld information on the basis that she 
had decided for herself that the underwriter did not need the information. It said this was not 
based upon the actual, and clear, question Ms C had been asked. It added that this was due 
to Ms C not having taken the time to read the question properly, not having checked with her 
broker as she could have done. Because of this, it said the misrepresentation can only be 
considered reckless and not simply careless.
Ive attempted to resolve the matter with WICEL, however it still feels that Ms C deliberately 
or recklessly answered the question  and so the actions it took when it cancelled the policy 
are fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure WICEL that Ive given a lot of thought to whats happened, and it is a 
finely balanced case. However, having taken everything into account again, my decision 
remains that this complaint should be upheld. And Ill explain my reasons for this below. The definition of a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation in CIDRA is:
2)A qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer
(a)knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue or 
misleading, and
(b)knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, or 
did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
I do accept here what WICEL are saying. Its question specifically asks for any convictions, 
endorsements, penalties, disqualifications or bans in the last 5 years. So regardless of 
whether it was spent or not, she should have declared it. And I accept that in a lot of cases, 
answering in this way and in these circumstances could amount to a deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation.
However, the test here is whether this particular consumer was deliberate or reckless in 
answering the question. I accept that Ms Cs interpretation of what shed need to disclose is 
wrong. While the penalty the named driver got was considered spent after three years. The 
endorsement wouldnt have been spent until five years. Which I also accept means Ms C 
should have declared it. Based on what Ms C has told us and WICEL, Im persuaded that 
she genuinely thought she answered the question correctly, as her understanding, albeit 
incorrectly, was that the named drivers penalty points and endorsement were spent after 
three years and so didnt have to be disclosed. I dont think it likely Ms C knew this to be 
untrue or purposefully tried to mislead WICEL. So, I cant fairly conclude that the 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. 
I do accept WICELs comments in response to my provisional decision and my further 
correspondence to it after this. However, for me to agree with what its said, Id have to be 
more persuaded that Ms C either deliberately or recklessly answered the question 
incorrectly. And for the reasons Ive explained, Im more persuaded that she was careless in 
answering the question. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Ms C, WICEL should:
Refund £75 cancellation fee. 
Pay Ms C 8% simple annual interest on the £75 from the date it withheld the charge, 
up until the date it repays it.
Remove the cancellation from all external databases.
Provide Ms C with a letter to say that it had incorrectly avoided her cover so she can 
present this to her current and future insurers if required.
Pay Ms C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of cancelling the 
cover.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Cs complaint. I order Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman