DRN-3848750
The complaint
Between July 2021 and February 2022 Mr Ws Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) was 
transferred from Financial Administration Services Limited (trading as Fidelity) to Interactive 
Investor Services Limited (IISL) and then back to Fidelity. He says both firms caused delays 
in the second transfer, back to Fidelity, and that the delays caused him a financial loss in 
terms of fund switches that would have been made in the SIPP earlier. He seeks 
compensation for that. He also notes that he exercised his right to cancel (and reverse) the 
first transfer within the 30 days period permitted. 
This decision is only about IISL. I have issued a separate decision in the case against 
Fidelity.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into both complaints. With regards to IISL, she concluded 
that it made some errors in the transfer process but it offered Mr W a total of £250 in 
compensation for the trouble caused to him, so that was fair compensation and it should not 
have to do any more. She did not uphold Mr Ws claim for financial loss. She acknowledged 
evidence of fund switches he performed prior to the transfer, but noted that he stopped those 
switches for the sake of the transfer and that the transfer process was always going to 
consume some time, during which no switches could be conducted. 
The investigator summarised the following background  the first transfer, to II, was 
completed by 7 July 2021, Mr W then decided he preferred Fidelitys service so he asked 
IISL to cancel/reverse the transfer; the cancellation form he received from IISL on 22 July 
was completed and returned on the same day, on 11 August IISLs administrator contacted 
Fidelity and enquired into returning the SIPPs funds, and on 25 August Fidelity replied to 
say a new online transfer request had to be submitted; Mr W submitted a new transfer form 
to IISL on 27 September and Fidelity received the completed forms on 6 October; Fidelity 
returned them to IISL, then there was a delay because the latter said the former had not 
completed a particular section; Mr W chased IISL for progress, then another issue arose in 
November when Fidelity said the SIPPs account reference in the forms was wrong; Mr W 
disputed this, and by late November the in-specie transfer of the SIPP could begin; the first 
SIPP funds were transferred to Fidelity in December and the last was transferred in February 
(2022).
With regards to the 30 days transfer cancellation issue the investigator considered that, 
regardless of the process delays, it probably would not have been feasible. She mainly 
found that, based on the cancellation form submitted on 22 July, the earliest that IISLs 
administrator would have contacted Fidelity was probably 9 August, which would have been 
more than 30 days from the transfer completion on 7 July.
Mr W disagreed with the overall outcome and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
In the main, he said he was proactive in the matter at the outset; he had sent Fidelity a 
completed application form on 16 August [evidence of which he attached], before its 
response to IISL on 25 August; on 5 October, he returned to Fidelity the fully completed IISL 
transfer-out paperwork; there is evidence that his first intended fund switch (within the SIPP) 
would not have taken place until 15 November, which was 17 weeks after he first contacted 
IISL, and which was more than enough time for an in-specie transfer; and there is evidence 
to support his claim for financial loss [which he set out in an attachment]. He also said the 
offer of £250 for inconvenience might be fair in the case of a cash transfer, but not in his 
case where the delay caused a financial loss within the in-specie assets being transferred.
More recently, and in response to my decision in the case against Fidelity, Mr W further 
addressed his claim for compensation. He referred to a stocks and shares Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) he holds with Fidelity, in which he says he conducts exactly the same 
investment strategy used for the SIPP. He says there is evidence in the ISA which supports 
his claim that he would have made the switches in the SIPP that he has set out, but for the 
delayed transfer.
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions expressed by the investigator.
This decision is only about the case against IISL, but it is inevitable that some references will 
be made to Fidelity because both firms were engaged in the same transfer process, and 
some aspects of the latters role will be relevant to determining the formers. As I confirmed 
at the outset, I have already decided the case against Fidelity.
I begin with the 30 days transfer cancellation issue. Mr W decided to cancel the first transfer 
and he requested the second/reverse transfer. Before his submission of the cancellation 
form on 22 July, he instructed the cancellation in his secure message to IISL dated 14 July, 
in response to the completion and cancellation notice IISL had sent him earlier on the same 
date. In both respects, he cancelled the first transfer within 30 days of 7 July (when the first 
transfer was completed). 
I have considered further, with regards to IISLs terms and the completion confirmation it 
sent Mr W. Both are broadly consistent on his transfer cancellation right. Section 6 of the 
terms says if he wished to cancel, he had 30 days from the cancellation notice to do so. 
IISLs cancellation notice to him on 14 July also said he had 30 days from then to cancel. His 
secure message on the same date was therefore at the beginning of the 30 days period, so 
he certainly exercised his cancellation right in time.
However, his complaint still turns on the practicalities of the cancellation process that 
followed, and I consider this was the point the investigator sought to make. The cancellation 
notice stated that the process partly depended on the original transferor  that is, Fidelity  
accepting the reverse transfer, and if that did not happen an alternative would be necessary. 
In other words, it was not guaranteed that Mr Ws cancellation within the requisite 30 days 
would return the SIPP to Fidelity or would do so within a particular time period. Therefore, 
the 30 days transfer cancellation issue is not as pivotal he might consider. He cancelled the 
first transfer in time and the cancellation/second transfer process followed, so the main issue 
remains the time taken to complete that process.
Mr W instructed the second transfer on 14 and 22 July. IISL received both communications. 
There is evidence that he chased on 4 August, and then on 17 September when he asked 
IISL for the relevant transfer documentation he needed to complete. IISL appears to have provided that to him on the same date and, as the investigator noted, he returned the 
completed documentation to IISL on 27 September. 
Drawing from evidence in the case against Fidelity, I reflect the following  Fidelity concedes 
responsibility for causing some delays between August and September; it received the 
Discharge Forms for the transfer on 6 October; it sent them, and enquiries, to IISL on 15 
October; and it took time between 4 and 15 November to resubmit them because IISL said it 
had not received them. It is also the case that, around October and November, Fidelity 
wrongly disputed the account reference number used in the process, then accepted that it 
was valid. 
My decision in the case against Fidelity made findings on the periods over which it caused 
delays to the process. Overall, I found that it caused a total delay of around 18 to 24 
business days during the period between mid-August and mid-November. In its submissions 
to this service, IISL accepts responsibility for causing a delay in forwarding the cancellation 
form to its administrator in July (that it did so on 4 August but should have done so by 29 
July), and for failing to inform Mr W that a new SIPP transfer was required by Fidelity on 25 
August (and that he needed to contact Fidelity at the time for that purpose).
IISL has referred to an estimated five business days turnaround period for its actions, but 
that was not wholly binding and it does not mean all five such days must be allowed for work 
behind each step it took. The process does not appear to have been beyond the norm so, on 
balance, I am persuaded that it could and should have taken each relevant step a little 
earlier  within the span of three to five business days.
Up to mid-November, I find that IISL unduly delayed the processing of Mr Ws cancellation 
instructions of 14 and 22 July; that, as it accepts, it alerted its administrator late; that having 
received the form on 22 July it ought reasonably to have contacted its administrator within 
three to five working days, so its action on 4 August was four to six business days late; that, 
as it also accepts, it caused another delay by failing to update him about the need to submit 
a new SIPP transfer application to Fidelity; that this amounted to simply sharing the 
information it received on 25 August, so it involved no particular work and did not need to be 
subjected to any turnaround period; that it should have done this on the same date (25 
August), and there is supporting evidence of it sharing, within the date of receipt, other 
comparable information with Mr W; that, instead, a delay appears to have been caused up to 
17 September when Mr W had to chase for the requisite transfer documentation; and that 
this created a further delay of 17 business days.
Up to mid-November, I consider that IISL caused a total delay to the process of between 21 
and 23 business days. For the period thereafter and up to December, I find similarly to my 
conclusions in the other case. Both firms addressed technical issues arising in the transfer, 
that took some time but, based on the facts, I am not persuaded to find that IISL caused a 
delay in treating those issues. By December Fidelity confirmed its acceptance of the transfer 
and the SIPPs funds began to move in that month. They were finally all transferred by 
February 2022.
Overall, on balance and based on the above assessment, I agree with the investigators 
finding that the total of £250 offered by IISL to Mr W is fair compensation for the trouble and 
inconvenience caused to him by its contribution to the delays. Based on the understanding 
and expectation that its offer remains open, I do not find grounds to order IISL to take any 
further action and I do not uphold Mr Ws claim for a higher award.
I now turn to his claim about financial loss. The same claim was made in the other case and 
my findings also remain the same. The transfer happened in-specie, so his SIPP 
investments were never out of the market and no financial loss arose in this respect. His claim is about the financial loss that he says resulted from the fund switches he made in the 
SIPP later in 2021 (and then in early 2022). He says he would have made them earlier, but 
for the delayed transfer. As such, I have considered the details of the switches that he has 
provided. 
Returning the SIPP to Fidelity was always going to be subject to due process and the 
consumption of time. The transfer process itself  even if it happened without delays  would 
have impacted upon any imminent or short-term fund switches Mr W planned to make. I 
consider that he would have been mindful of this when he decided to make the 
second/reverse transfer. It does not automatically follow that because IISL caused some 
delays to the transfer process it is responsible for the specific losses he claims. 
He says he would have started the first of five (paired) fund switches on 15 November 2021 
and the last on 14 January 2022; but instead, his first transaction started on 20 December 
2020 and the last on 10 February 2022; and he says this resulted from the delayed transfer. 
However, on balance, I am not persuaded that the specific but hypothetical timings (between 
November 2021 and January 2022) he asserts can be relied upon as evidence of what 
would probably have happened, but for the delay. As I said above, the transfer would 
inevitably have impacted upon any imminent or short-term fund switches. No guarantee was 
given to him as to when the transfer would conclude and I have not seen evidence that led 
him to be certain it would have concluded before 15 November 2021.
On balance, I am not persuaded that Mr Ws reference to his ISA supports his claim. The 
circumstances related to the SIPP and ISA were not alike, the former was subjected to a 
transfer in which fund switches were inherently compromised and, it appears, the latter was 
not. Even if the same investment strategy applied to both, it cannot reasonably be found that 
switches were planned to happen in both at the same time because, I repeat, there was no 
guarantee on when the transfer would conclude, so no such definitive plan could have been 
made. If the argument is that the opportunity to switch funds in the SIPP at the same time as 
switches in the ISA might have existed and could have been taken, but for the delayed 
transfer, that is a different argument. However, compensation for financial loss in this case 
cannot fairly be awarded on the basis that earlier fund switches in the SIPP could have been 
possible. 
I consider that Mr W had a choice between prioritising the transfer and prioritising fund 
switches (and then transferring thereafter); he chose the former, which carried the obvious 
implication that any fund switching he subsequently considered could (or probably would) be 
impacted by the transfer process; he was entitled to expect a transfer without undue delays 
but, importantly, he had no grounds to expect completion by any specific date (or period); 
therefore, he probably applied a broad estimate to the matter; furthermore, market and price 
conditions would probably have been relevant to his decision making in any switches he 
considered and he could not have predicted, in August, what these would be later in the year 
(or in November). 
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not consider it safe to find that the 
specific losses he has calculated resulted directly from the delayed transfer. I am not 
persuaded to uphold Mr Ws claim for financial loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman