DRN-2739167
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a Barclays 
Tech Pack in 2014. Miss D paid a monthly fee for the account which provided several 
benefits in return.
What happened
Miss D has complained to this service that the package of benefits  known as a Tech Pack 
 was unnecessary. She says she didnt need the benefits. 
Miss D has also complained that the way the monthly fee was charged made it difficult for 
her to manage her monthly outgoings. Shes explained that the fee wasnt listed as a direct 
debit or a standing order, and she believes Barclays did this deliberately to hide the fee from 
her. 
Ive also noted in correspondence between Miss D and Barclays that in her initial complaint 
she was told there was no alternative, fee-free account. And she says she was made to 
believe the Tech Pack was right for her, and she was pressured into agreeing to it as her 
free account was no longer available. 
Miss Ds account history is as follows:
It was opened as a fee-free account in 2008;
A Barclays Tech Pack was added in June 2014;
The Tech Pack was removed in July 2020.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Barclays mis-sold the Tech Pack to Miss D and 
didnt recommend that Barclays should pay her any compensation. 
Miss D didnt agree, so she asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Miss Ds complaint. 
After giving Miss Ds complaint a lot of thought, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Miss D was given a fair choice when she took her 
Tech Pack.
In her complaint Miss D said she was pressured into agreeing to the Tech Pack, because 
she was made to believe fee-free accounts were no longer available. And shes explained 
that she was made to believe the benefits were right for her. 
Miss D had held a fee-free account with Barclays for around six years when she agreed to 
add the Tech Pack to her account. And whilst Ive thought about what shes said, I havent 
been told enough to persuade me that she was left with no other option but to change her 
account; or effectively, that she didnt have a choice. I do understand that sometimes people 
find it hard to decline things theyre offered, but that doesnt mean she was forced into it. Im 
also mindful that Miss D kept the Tech Pack  which she says she wasnt given an option 
about taking  for over six years. I think its unlikely shed have done that if she didnt want it.
Having considered everything, I think its more likely that Miss D was aware she had a 
choice about whether to agree to the Tech Pack or not, and she chose to take it because 
something about the it appealed to her.
I havent seen enough to make me think that Barclays personally recommended the Tech 
Pack to Miss D. I do think its likely that Barclays told Miss D about the benefits and drew her 
attention to the ones that mightve been useful to her, but it wasnt wrong to do that. And 
although it mightve highlighted the benefits, Barclays didnt have to check whether the Tech 
Packs benefits were suitable for Miss D by considering her personal circumstances.
Although Barclays didnt recommend the Tech Pack, it still had to give Miss D enough clear 
information about it for her to decide if she wanted it. 
At the time Miss D agreed to the Tech Pack in 2014 its benefits were gadget insurance, 
mobile phone insurance, and a £200 interest-free overdraft facility.
I can see from Miss Ds account transactions that in the months prior to upgrading she was 
paying £14.99 every month to a mobile phone insurance company. And Barclays notes from 
the day she upgraded her account also confirm this. Theres also a note which suggests that 
Miss D had been reviewing her mobile phone insurance cover, and taking the Tech Pack 
was a way to halve her outgoings  as the cost of the Tech Pack was £7.50 per month. So 
like our adjudicator, I think that Miss D was interested in the mobile phone insurance benefit 
and chose to upgrade because of it. I can also see from her account transactions that 
following the upgrade in June 2014, no further direct debit payments were made to the 
mobile phone insurance company that Miss D was previously paying.
Barclays has also provided an extract of its system records which show that Miss D 
registered her mobile phone against the Tech Packs insurance policy on the same day as 
she upgraded her account. Whilst I accept this mightve been done by the Barclays 
representative at the time of the upgrade, and not by Miss D herself, I do think shed have 
been aware of it. And because I think she took the Tech Pack for this policy, Im persuaded 
that she found it useful and chose to upgrade, knowing she didnt have to  even though she 
fortunately didnt need to make any claims. Miss D might not have been interested in the 
Tech Packs other benefits, but that doesnt change my decision here. I say this because it 
seems she was financially in a better position after taking the Tech Pack for the mobile 
phone insurance, so the account seems to have been good value for her on that basis alone.
Ive also seen that Miss D has said that Barclays made it very difficult for her to see the 
monthly fee of the Tech Pack  which means she was unable to plan her monthly outgoings 
or cancel it. Miss D has provided screen shots of her mobile phone banking app, and I note 
shes explained that the fee cant be seen in the direct debits or standing orders section of 
the app. I do agree with what Miss D has said here  the monthly fee wasnt taken as a direct debit or 
standing order, so it didnt show in those sections of her banking app. But having reviewed 
the other information thats available to Miss D, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly. 
Having looked at the account transactions for Miss Ds account, I can see that the fee was 
debited each month with a narrative of TECH PACK FEE 1 @ £7.50  which changed as 
the price of the account increased over time. As this is a fee payable directly to Barclays, as 
opposed to being collected by an external company via Barclays, I wouldnt expect this to be 
collected by direct debit, or for Miss D to pay it by standing order. 
Whilst I understand why Miss D may have forgotten about the Tech Pack fee over time, Im 
persuaded that she was aware of the fee when she agreed to the account, and Im satisfied 
that Barclays made the fee sufficiently clear, although I do appreciate that Miss D is unlikely 
to agree with me on this point. Its standard practice in the industry for packaged bank 
account fees to be charged directly by the bank as a fee, rather than paid by direct debit, so I 
dont think Barclays has done anything unusual or unreasonable here.  
I know that Miss D has said that the way the Tech Pack fee was debited made it difficult for 
her to cancel it. And I agree that its unlikely shed have been able to simply cancel the 
recurring payment like she mightve been able to with other regular payments. But Im not 
aware that Miss D ever contacted Barclays to cancel the Tech Pack by any other means, 
before she removed it in July 2020. So I dont hold Barclays responsible for this.  
I want to reassure Miss D that Ive looked at all the information I have about her complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything shes said. But having done so I dont think Barclays mis-
sold the Tech Pack to her. And I dont think it misled her or hid the account fee to prevent 
her from knowing about it. So Barclays doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman