DRN-2469276
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Quickly Finance trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging a 
fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim. She said shed only asked them to carry 
out a free PPI check.
What happened
Mrs B said she asked FTR to carry out a free PPI check in July 2019. She said she didnt 
receive any acknowledgement for this. So, in early August 2019 she contacted her lender Ill 
call M to make a PPI claim herself.  In February 2020 M told her she had a successful 
claim and paid her compensation for this. But in March 2020 she was invoiced by FTR to 
pay their fee for the successful claim. She complained to FTR.
FTR said Mrs B had signed a letter of authority (LoA) in July 2019 and theyd sent this to M 
to see if Mrs B had PPI. And in September 2019, FTR had told her that shed paid PPI and 
sent her a link to complete a PPI questionnaire. They sent further messages in September 
and October 2019.
In February 2020 M told FTR that Mrs Bs claim was successful. And as Mrs B hadnt 
cancelled her agreement with FTR they asked her to pay their success fee in March 2020.
Mrs B referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Mrs B has asked FTR to remove her from their email list, and that 
FTR should have taken this as her wanting to cancel. But theyd only changed her contact 
preference. He said FTR should waive their success fee.
FTR didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my 
decision on what I think most likely happened. 
FTR feel strongly that Mrs B had agreed to use their services and that it was because of 
their enquiry her claim with M was successful. I can also understand Mrs Bs frustration as 
she doesnt think shed authorised FTR to act on her behalf. She said she hadnt been kept 
updated about what FTR was doing and had made her PPI claim direct with M.
In making my decision I need to determine whether Mrs B had authorised FTR to act on her 
behalf. And if she had, whether they knew she no longer wanted them to work for her. And to 
see whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mrs B.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for lender M in July 
2019. The personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mrs B has 
given this service. And Mrs B doesnt dispute she completed the online application but that 
she understood it was only an agreement for a free PPI check.
So, Ive looked at the web journey process. FTR has shown the screens Mrs B would have 
gone through. The screen shows a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
 *Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will 
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24% 
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims as per the Terms of Engagement. 
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to the 
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens asked for information from Mrs B about her personal details and lenders. 
On completing the application, a LoA was generated, populated with this information. And 
FTR has said this could only be submitted with a signature. There wasnt a requirement to 
add a date. 
As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the 
LoA Mrs B had agreed to them. FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
And go on to say:
You may cancel Your Claims) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the
Letter of Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received 
a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
FTR has shown that in September 2019 they emailed Mrs B  to the email address Mrs B 
has given this service- telling her that You have paid PPI. And provided a link for a PPI 
questionnaire to be completed.  And FTR sent further similar emails later in September and 
October 2019. Mrs B said she didnt see the emails and that theyd probably fallen into her 
spam folder. But I cant hold FTR responsible for this as the emails were sent to her active 
email address.
But the notes that FTR has shown us only start from October 2019, theyve said this is 
because notes arent added to the account until theyve had communication with Mrs B or 
received an update from the lender. But FTR has shown there was communication with Mrs 
B from September 2019, and also from M the same month when they told FTR they were 
looking into the complaint. They also said Mrs B would get an acknowledgement that her application had been submitted in August 2019. But none of this communication between 
Mrs B and M is recorded in FTRs notes. 
And I can see that M sent further updates to FTR in October, November and December 
2019 but these havent been recorded in FTRs notes. And there isnt any evidence that FTR 
updated Mrs B about what was happening with her claim until February 2020 when M said 
her claim was successful.
Mrs B has said she never received an acknowledgement from FTR when she submitted her 
PPI check in July 2019, and as stated above FTR hasnt recorded any such notification 
being made. I can see Mrs B asked FTR in November 2019 to remove her from their mailing 
list, usually such a request is to prevent further marketing. And I think shows Mrs B wasnt 
aware that FTR were progressing a PPI claim on her behalf. The response to her request 
from FTR was from their cancellation team. And said:
 Thank you for your recent enquiry regarding PPI. Attached to this email you will find an 
update on your claim with Fast Track Reclaim.
But again, there isnt a record in FTRs notes about what the enquiry about PPI was or what 
update was given. FTR has said that all correspondence where no PPI is found or where the 
lender is unable to locate an account is signed by the cancellation team. And have said that 
Mrs B had cancelled another claim with them for another lender. 
While I think Mrs B agreed to the free PPI check being done by FTR, and FTR did notify her 
that PPI had been found. I dont think FTR has been able to show that Mrs B hadnt 
cancelled her agreement with them before any redress had been paid. So, I dont think its 
fair and reasonable for FTR to ask Mrs B to pay their fee.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance trading as Fast Track Reclaim to waive 
their fee for Mrs Bs successful PPI claim.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021. 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman