DRN-2963929
The complaint
Mr E and Ms M are unhappy with Great Lakes Insurance SEs delays in paying a claim 
under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr E and Ms M held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. 
Mr E and Ms M were due to travel abroad but, unfortunately, the holiday was cancelled due 
to medical issues experienced by Ms M. 
In May 2020, Ms M contacted Great Lakes to make a claim under her policy for the deposit 
shed paid for the holiday. Unhappy with Great Lakes information requests and delays, 
Ms M complained and then brought the matter to the attention of our service. 
Great Lakes wrote to Ms M on 28 September 2020 to confirm her claim would be paid and 
transferred the claim settlement to Ms Ms account in early October 2020. Great Lakes 
responded to Ms Ms complaint in November 2020 and apologised for its delays. It said 
these had been caused, in part, by its failure to action a response task. Great Lakes also 
acknowledged that it hadnt needed to ask Ms M for further information from her doctor and 
paid her £50 compensation in recognition of this. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she thought Great Lakes couldve 
handled things better. But she said she thought the compensation it had paid Ms M was fair. 
Ms M didnt agree with our investigators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance set out by the regulator say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed. Ive taken these rules 
and guidance into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr E and Ms Ms complaint. 
Making an insurance claim can, by its nature, be inconvenient. An insurer is entitled to 
request reasonable information from a policyholder in support of their claim, at the 
policyholders expense. An insurer is also entitled to make reasonable enquiries to satisfy 
itself that a claim is covered under the terms and conditions of the policy before accepting 
that claim. This is what happened here  Ms M didnt tell Great Lakes about one of her 
medical conditions when she bought the policy, so Great Lakes was entitled to look into this 
and establish whether it made any difference to Ms Ms cover. 
But, overall, Id expect an insurer to carry out its investigations within a reasonable timescale 
and without any excessive or undue delay. 
Some of the delays in this case were because Great Lakes was making enquiries into Ms 
Ms claim and this wasnt unreasonable. Some of the delays were due to the challenges 
presented by Covid-19, which were outside of Great Lakes control. 
However, I think its clear that there were also delays and failings by Great Lakes in this case 
that could have been avoided. Great Lakes failed to action a task, and this unreasonably 
delayed the progress of Ms Ms claim. Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes had made 
any unnecessary information requests, but Great Lakes has already acknowledged that it did 
ask for information it didnt need, when Ms M had already sent through evidence from her 
doctor which should have been sufficient. 
Great Lakes has apologised to Ms M and paid her £50 compensation for how it handled her 
claim. The issue for me to decide is whether I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances or whether I think Great Lakes should do anything more. 
Our awards of compensation arent intended to punish a business  they are intended to 
compensate a consumer for any distress or inconvenience theyve experienced. Ive thought 
about the impact of Great Lakes actions on Ms M. I understand she has been unwell and 
her communications with Great Lake clearly show her frustration and upset at how her claim 
was being handled. Ive also taken into account the length of the delay in this case as well as 
the nature of Great Lakes errors. 
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Ms M has experienced and Im also sorry to disappoint 
her, but I think Great Lakes apology and payment of £50 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking Great Lakes to do anything further. 
Great Lakes said it paid Ms M £50 compensation on 17 November 2020. If Ms M hasnt 
received this compensation, then shed need to raise a new complaint with Great Lakes 
about the matter before our service would have the power to look into it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr E and Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman