DRN-2237096
The complaint
Mrs G complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) unfairly rejected 
her credit card application.
What happened
Mrs G held an AESEL credit card account for a number of years that required an annual fee. 
She says she spoke with AESEL and told it she no longer wished to pay the account fee and 
was told she could apply for an account without a fee. Mrs G says she applied for this 
account but AESEL rejected her application which she says is unfair and doesnt take into 
account her previous good account management.
AESEL says Mrs G told it she had lost her job and said on the application that she didnt 
have an income. It says in those circumstances, as a responsible lender, it correctly rejected 
the application.
Mrs G brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought AESEL was entitled to take into account the lack of income and fairly rejected the 
application.
Mrs G doesnt accept that view and says AESEL has a duty to consider the way in which she 
manged her previous account and says if she hadnt have told AESEL about the loss of her 
job, then it wouldnt have known about that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that AESEL has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and is entitled to reject an account application. I realise Mrs G will be disappointed 
by my decision.
Im satisfied that Mrs G told AESEL that she didnt have any employment or income in her 
account application. In those circumstances Im satisfied that AESEL reasonably rejected 
Mrs Gs account application. I also think that AESEL must consider if any lending is 
responsible and affordable. And I dont think it matters how Mrs G managed her previous 
account as its clear that her personal circumstances had changed.
Im also satisfied that its up to AESEL to decide with whom it has a business relationship 
when it exercises its commercial judgement. And its not our role to interfere in such 
decisions. I think AESEL has fairly explained to Mrs G the reasons for the account rejection 
and in those circumstances, I cant fairly order it to open a new account for her. 
Overall, I dont uphold this complaint and I dont think it matters that Mrs G says if she hadnt 
have told AESEL about the change in circumstances then it wouldnt have known about 
them. As I can see she did tell AESEL that she had lost her job and couldnt afford the 
annual fee on the previous account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman