DRN-3719786
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA is holding him liable for a debt he 
says he didnt agree to, nor benefit from.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them
briefly below.
Mr M held an account with PayPal. In June 2021, Mr M received a letter from PayPal
informing him he was due to pay a fee for a late payment associated with his PayPal Credit
account. Mr M says that hed never applied for a PayPal Credit account and hadnt carried
out the transaction associated with the debt.
PayPal looked into Mr Ms claim but, after an investigation, continued to hold him liable for
the debt. Mr M remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint, so he brought it to our
service for an independent review.
An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties and concluded PayPal had
made an error. Broadly speaking, they felt PayPal werent able to sufficiently evidence Mr M
was responsible for opening the credit account or that hed carried out the disputed
transaction. He recommended PayPal write off the debt, interest and charges; remove any
reporting of it from Mr Ms credit file and pay Mr M £75 for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
PayPal disagreed. It continued to defend its position and confirmed that it had acted
correctly in the circumstances. As PayPal disagreed, the matter was passed to me
for a decision.
On 26 May 2023 I issued a provisional decision setting out what I was minded to conclude 
taking into account the evidence and testimony provided by both parties. My provisional 
decision was as follows:
Mr M throughout the investigation of this complaint has denied setup or usage of the PayPal 
Credit account. His submissions are that he hadnt used the account for almost a decade, 
that his email account and mobile telephone number had been compromised and that a 
third-party had set up the account and spent on it without his knowledge.
This, in some respects, fits in with PayPals argument. It says that the PayPal Credit account 
was set up using Mr Ms genuine PayPal account. And an authorisation code was sent to 
Mr Ms genuine telephone number associated with the account to authorise the payment.
But PayPal have failed to provide some additional information relating to the account to 
support its position that Mr M was the authorising party. To the contrary, I find the 
information PayPal has supplied supports Mr Ms assertion that he was subject to an email 
hack and SIM swap which allowed a third-party to access his account without his authority.
Mr M has provided significant new evidence to support that his email account was hacked. 
He has demonstrated through a third-party business that his email address and password 
had been published on the dark web. And this fits in with information supplied by PayPal that 
Mr Ms password was changed prior to the transaction in dispute being carried out. PayPal 
has also supplied information from its own fraud investigation notes that a new device was 
registered against the account prior to the payment being made when the password was 
reset. This would suggest that its likely a third-party used Mr Ms email to reset the 
password of his PayPal account.
Information supplied by PayPal also shows that the item purchased was shipped to store 
rather than sent to Mr Ms home address. Therefore, no evidence can be provided that 
supports Mr M receiving or benefitting from the item(s) purchased.
Mr M has also provided numerous documents to support the likelihood that his mobile 
telephone number had been taken over. On the day of the transaction, Mr M lost signal on 
his device and received a message from his network provider saying that it was sorry to see 
him leave. Mr M has supported this testimony with an email from the network provider 
ordering a new SIM two days after the transaction was made. And a further letter has been 
provided, dated three days after the transaction, setting out that a Porting Authorisation 
Code (PAC) had been requested from the network to port Mr Ms number to another 
provider. It acknowledged that this had been reported as fraudulent.
I find this to be persuasive in explaining how a third-party likely accessed Mr Ms PayPal 
account and received the code via text message to change his password and authorise the 
payment in dispute.
PayPal in its recent submission has asked that a Police investigation outcome be provided to 
support Mr M being the victim of a SIM swap. But I dont find this to a reasonable request. 
Mr M has reported the matter to Police, but he has no control over whether that Police 
Service pursues the matter further or not.
Having considered matters again, Im still conscious that the credit account was set up circa 
six-month prior to the transaction being carried out. And Im still of the opinion that, typically, 
a fraudster would unlikely wait this period of time to utilise funds theyd manage to access. 
But this doesnt detract from the evidence Mr M has provided supporting his position that he 
was likely hacked at the time of the transaction. And I must acknowledge that there are times 
where typical patterns followed by fraudsters arent apparent for a variety of reasons.
Other than the correct sign in credentials being used to access Mr Ms PayPal account, and 
the authorisation codes being sent to the telephone number associated with his account, 
PayPal has been unable to provide any other evidence to support its position that Mr M likely 
consented to the transaction. And as Ive highlighted above, Mr M has provided evidence to 
support how these were likely compromised.
For all of the reasons Ive given above, I find it more likely than not that Mr M hadnt 
authorised the payment in dispute. He therefore cannot reasonable be held liable for it.
Both parties were given until 9 June 2023 to provide any further submissions prior to me 
issuing a final decision.
Mr M agreed with the findings set out in my provisional decision, but PayPal didnt. It 
responded stating that itd asked Mr M for evidence to support his claim that he was victim to 
a SIM swap and hacking but deemed what he supplied to be insufficient.
As both parties have now responded to my provisional findings, Im now in a position to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PayPal has responded to my provisional findings disagreeing with them for the reasons set 
out above. Having considered these new comments, I dont intend to depart from the 
findings set out in provisional decision.
While I appreciate PayPals comments about the information it had at the time, it has since 
been provided additional evidence from Mr M that supports his claim that he was likely victim 
to an email hacking and SIM swap prior to the transaction being carried out.
I acknowledge that PayPal did ask Mr M for a Police report supporting his claim of a SIM 
swap, but as Ive stated in my provisional findings, the Polices decision not to investigate the 
matter isnt one within Mr Ms control. Mr M provided a crime reference number and had 
fulfilled his obligation to report the matter. Mr M received a response from the Police stating 
that as crime was committed against PayPal, it would need a report from PayPal directly to 
investigate.
I therefore cannot agree that this is a fair reason to continue declining Mr Ms claim.
I dont intend to expand on the reasons set out in my provisional decision as no further 
comment or challenge has been made to the other points. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, PayPal should now go ahead and put Mr M in the position he 
would have been in had the unauthorised transaction not occurred.
I have considered a payment for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M, but dont 
find this appropriate in the circumstances. This is due to a large proportion of the evidence 
replied upon to draw my conclusions that the transaction was likely unauthorised was 
supplied by Mr M after referring his complaint to our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et 
Cie SCA to:
Recall the debt if it has been sold to a third-party.
Write off the debt associated with Mr Ms account and end any further liability.
If applicable, refund any repayments, interest or charges associated with the debt 
paid by Mr M.
Remove any adverse reporting associated with the debt from Mr Ms credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman