DRN-4360900
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about her car insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). 
Following insured repairs, it returned her car to her with faults and, ultimately, two 
pre-booked holidays were affected with costs being incurred.
What happened
There was a motorway accident (which was not Mrs Gs fault) which occurred whilst Mrs Gs 
car was towing a trailer. The trailer jack-knifed and further impacted the car. In late 
December 2021 RSA accepted the car was repairable but by the end of January 2022 Mrs G 
hadnt received any update as to when the car would be ready and she was concerned as 
the family were due to leave for a holiday, on 11 February, for which they needed their car. 
They had a hire car but couldnt use it abroad. 
On 7 February 2022 the hire company said it was collecting the hire car because Mrs Gs car 
was repaired. Mrs G hadnt been notified of that, following further enquiries she was told the 
car would be returned in the next few days. On 10 February she was promised it would be 
with her that day but that didnt happen. On 11 February she was told some final tests were 
required but it would be with her that day. Eventually the car was delivered on 11 February 
to a garage where Mrs G had arranged to have an MOT completed on the car before using it 
for their holiday.
On arrival at the garage though the car had multiple warning lights, alarms sounding, various 
sensors werent working, loose wires were hanging out the back of the car and the tow bar 
was unsecure. RSAs garage was consulted and it was advised the battery would need 
charging. Ultimately the MOT garage changed the battery and a mechanic from RSAs 
garage disabled the parking alarm sensor, which was still sounding, so the car could be 
driven. Mrs G and her family embarked on their holiday five hours late, only to breakdown 
and have to be returned home, with their car going back to RSAs garage. Mrs G was given 
a courtesy car by RSAs garage  but it was only a small car. The family managed to go on 
their holiday two days later with the help of a friend. 
At the beginning of March, with the family home, Mrs G and RSA were both chasing the 
garage for an update on what was happening. Mrs G had another family trip booked at the 
end of March for which they needed their car. She told RSA she needed her car back by 
18 March 2022 or for a hire car of similar size and which could be driven abroad to be 
provided or paid for. Her car wasnt returned to her, RSA didnt provide a hire car and Mrs G 
arranged transport herself.
Following investigations RSAs garage felt there was a fault with the cars alternator. It felt 
this wasnt accident or repair related. It changed the alternator anyway, later telling RSA and 
Mrs G it had done this as a goodwill gesture. But a fault remained with the parking sensor 
and further investigations had to be undertaken. It was quite some time before this was 
resolved and some minor issues remained outstanding. 
Mrs G complained about the repair journey, particularly how the car had been returned to 
her in February. She was also unhappy about the financial loss she had incurred  one day 
of costs in February (due to the two day delay in starting the holiday) and the cost of the hire 
car in March 2022. RSA said it accepted that it had provided a dreadful service, and paid 
£500 compensation, but denied liability for any financial loss. It said the alternator had 
caused the breakdown, which had resulted in Mrs G incurring costs, and its failure wasnt 
accident or repair related. 
Mrs G complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She said she wanted £170 in 
respect of the February holiday, this being one days cost for equipment hire and a pass 
theyd paid for, for the whole holiday, but had been unable to use for one day due to the 
delay. Also £2,992.98 for car hire for the March holiday. As well as compensation for upset.
Our Investigator felt that the compensation RSA had already paid was fair and reasonable. 
Regarding Mrs Gs financial losses, she initially felt RSA should cover these. But, following 
challenge by RSA, she felt Mrs G should approach her travel insurer to make a claim for the 
equipment hire and pass costs. She maintained that the compensation was fair and 
reasonable and that RSA should pay the hire car costs.
Mrs G felt it was unfair that she should have to make a claim on travel insurance to make up 
for losses which, in her view, RSA had caused. RSA said that in February / March 2023 the 
outstanding faults from the accident were minor  affecting only an interior light, the wheel 
arch trim and the parking sensor bracket. They had not made the car undriveable and it had 
returned the car to Mrs G with these repairs incomplete only to facilitate her holidays. It 
maintained that any losses incurred regarding holidays should be referred to Mrs Gs travel 
insurer.  
The complaint was referred to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I felt it should be upheld. 
Whilst I thought the compensation had been fairly assessed and paid by RSA, I felt it should 
be reimbursing the financial losses Mrs G had identified in respect of her two holidays 
impacted by RSAs poor repair, plus interest. I issued a provisional decision.
In reply, RSA said it had nothing further to add. Mrs G said she was happy with the outcome 
but asked that her cost for replacing the battery was reimbursed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Before I look into the detail of the complaint, I first want to briefly address RSAs point about 
Mrs G claiming on her travel insurance. I dont think thats fair or reasonable. If RSA has 
caused a policyholder a financial loss, it should make things right. Its not fair and reasonable 
for RSA to shirk its liability, mitigating its outlay, just because a policy exists which might 
cover that loss. The question then is, is RSA reasonably responsible for the costs Mrs G has 
asked it to reimburse?
RSA has maintained that the alternator caused the holiday disruption  that the outstanding 
accident repairs were only minor, they did not make the car undriveable. I think RSA is 
wrong in this respect.
I see that the car was delivered to the MOT garage in February with a host of issues. 
Including the parking sensor sounding. The sensor was not fixed at that time, merely 
disconnected. An email submitted by RSA shows that the garage, at the end of March 2022, 
said it was trying to fix the sensors which had failed since the accident (with the control module for them being located in the area impacted during the collision). The garage was, at 
that time, seeking authorisation from RSA to send the car to a manufacturer garage for 
further testing, not least as it was felt possible that the sensor/control module issue could 
have been causing a larger electrical problem which had impacted the battery and alternator.
I note RSA also submitted an assessment on the faults with the car from a senior engineer. 
The senior engineer said:
On review of the issues relating to the discharging of the batteryIt appears the garage 
replaced the batteries and then the alternator but then they identified there was still a defect 
with the discharging of the main batteryFull diagnosis was carried out and the fault was 
located with the rear PDC wiring loom..the results of the diagnosis/investigations were 
wiring repair and the rear parking sensor module once this was rectified the issues/defects 
had been cured.
So the senior engineers opinion is that the faults with the parking sensor module caused the 
problem with the battery. And I note that the module was located in the area of impact 
damage, with the faulty sensor being one of the issues affecting the car on its delivery to the 
MOT garage in February 2022. At that time the sensor was disconnected so it didnt sound 
but that didnt rectify the fault. I understand that the cars battery was replaced which allowed 
Mrs G to drive the car to embark on their holiday. But the battery discharged with the car 
breaking down. Based on what I have seen, I have no doubt that breakdown resulted from 
the sensor module issue.
I think it was unreasonable for RSA to have returned the car to Mrs G in that condition. 
I think Mrs G mitigated the situation as best she could and it was lucky, for both parties 
I think, that Mrs G had such a good friend who was able to help the family take their holiday, 
albeit two days late with one day of paid for activities affected. In my view Mrs G asking for 
RSA to reimburse her cost for that one day of equipment hire and pass price, which she had 
no benefit from, is entirely reasonable. RSA has seen the evidence of that cost  £170.80. It 
will have to reimburse this sum, plus interest* applied from 11 February 2022 until settlement 
is made. 
RSA was still trying to fix Mrs Gs car in March 2022. I appreciate there were some tricky 
diagnostic investigations being undertaken around this time. But RSA had returned the car to 
Mrs G in an unsatisfactory state already in February 2022, with that having impacted one 
holiday. And I see that RSA itself in early March was unsuccessfully chasing the garage for 
updates. Around mid-March 2022 Mrs G gave RSA notice that a second pending holiday 
was likely to be impacted if their car was not returned or alternate transport arranged. I think 
RSA should reasonably have acted then to ensure this did not happen. However, I note that 
whilst RSA made some enquiries, it didnt do anything to assist Mrs G and, as a result, she 
hired a car herself to ensure the holiday could go ahead. I think that was also entirely 
reasonable of Mrs G. RSA has seen the evidence of the car hire cost - £2,992.98. It will have 
to reimburse this sum, plus interest* applied from 3 April 2022 until settlement is made. 
There were two causes of worry and inconvenience centred on the holidays. With the 
additional stresses of the car breaking down and frustration caused by the garages on-going 
poor communication. Thats clearly quite a brief summation of the distress and 
inconvenience I think RSA caused Mrs G. But I can assure both parties that I have taken 
account of everything that happened. Overall I think £500 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont require RSA to pay anything more in this 
respect.
I remain satisfied by those findings and, given the parties responses, Ive no need to change 
them. I can understand that Mrs G is now asking for her battery costs to be reimbursed and she can forward her invoice in this respect to RSA for consideration. But I cant reasonably 
add a direction for it to do that here as this additional repair cost didnt form part of the 
complaint made to RSA and this service. Mrs Gs request in her complaint was that her 
financial losses regarding her holidays were compensated for. Which is what Ive considered 
and made an award in respect of. 
Putting things right
I require RSA to pay Mrs G:
£170.80, plus interest* applied from 11 February 2022 until settlement is made.
£2,992.98, plus interest* applied from 3 April 2022 until settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require RSA to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman