DRN-2959778
The complaint
Mr M complains about the charges levied by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) when a hire agreement for a car came to an end.
What happened
In October 2014 Mr M entered into a two-year hire agreement with VWFS. The agreement 
said that the maximum annual mileage would be 15,000 miles and the maximum total 
mileage would be 30,000 miles. Mr M would have to pay an additional 6p per mile (plus 
VAT) if he exceeded that mileage. If the agreement were ended before the end of the two-
year hire period, the mileage allowance would be reduced proportionately.
It had been Mr Ms intention to include a maintenance contract with the hire agreement  by 
which VWFS would provide servicing and maintenance for an additional monthly fee. Mr M 
therefore signed an additional agreement on 7 November 2014. That agreement included a 
statement that any additional mileage over the contracted 15,000 miles would be charged at 
4p per mile at the end of the agreement.
The hire agreement ended in October 2016. VWFS made sought additional payments from 
Mr M in respect of a late return, a small refurbishment cost and excess mileage. It later 
accepted that the car had not been returned late  Mr M had given its location for collection 
a few days before the end of the agreement  and it agreed to waive the refurbishment fee. 
It said however that it was entitled to charge excess mileage at 10p per mile; Mr M said it 
should only charge 6p per mile, as the extra charge added for the maintenance contract had 
not been properly explained to him.
Mr M and VWFS discussed the charge in or about April 2017. VWFS did not agree to reduce 
it and said that it would send him a letter explaining its position. Mr M asked that the letter be 
sent to his business address, rather than the address on the hire agreement. He says he did 
not receive it and heard no more about the matter until he was contacted by debt collectors 
some two years later. He referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He took the view that, if the letter 
had been correctly addressed, Mr M would have taken steps to repay the outstanding sums 
at the time. So, whilst the investigator was satisfied the excess mileage had been correctly 
calculated, he thought that VWFS should remove any adverse credit information relating to 
the hire agreement (subject to Mr M making payment within a reasonable time) and pay Mr 
M £150 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he had been put and the distress he 
had suffered.
Mr M did not accept the investigators opinion. He said there had never been any agreement 
about the final payment. VWFS indicated that it would accept the investigators view. It said 
that the outstanding balance should not have been recorded on Mr Ms credit file (which I 
take to mean that VWFS does not believe it was recorded at that point), but that it would 
expect Mr M to make payment arrangements within a month.
The payment was not made within the month and I considered the complaint and issued a 
provisional decision. The relevant findings I made were: 
Mr M does not dispute that he signed the additional agreement on 7 November 2014. 
He says however that he was given no explanation of it or its terms. He was simply 
presented with it. VWFS said that it was for the dealership to explain the agreement.
The usual position is that a person is bound by their signature on a legal agreement, 
whether or not they have actually read it. There are exceptions of course  for example, 
where a person is misled or subjected to undue influence. I do not believe that any of 
those exceptions might apply here. There was no obligation on VWFS or the dealership 
to explain the agreement or to advise on it. Mr M signed a declaration that he fully 
understood his obligations. The additional mileage charge was clearly included in what 
was a very short agreement. I therefore agree with the investigators assessment that 
VWFS was entitled to levy the charges in the way it did.
I turn then to the way in which VWFS handled the matter. I note that its letter of April 
2017 was addressed to Mr M at a business park address. It did not however include a 
business name or unit number. I think it likely that it was not delivered to Mr M.
Mr M had however discussed the matter with VWFS shortly before the letter was sent. 
He knew what its position was  namely, that excess mileage was due at 10p per mile 
plus VAT  and knew how much VWFS was seeking in total. I do not believe that he 
can have taken the apparent silence from VWFS as an indication that matters were 
resolved. The usual principle is that it is for a debtor to seek out and pay a creditor, not 
for a creditor to chase payment. It does not appear however that Mr M has made any 
payment  even of the amount he does not dispute. He has said that he is not now in a 
position to do so.
Whilst therefore I accept that VWFS did not address its April 2017 letter correctly and 
that Mr M did not receive it as a result, I do not believe that affects his obligations to 
VWFS.
I did not recommend that VWFS do anything further to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
VWFS said it had nothing further to add. Mr M queried whether it was acceptable for VWFS 
to use an incorrect address and then have a debt collector chase him for payment. He 
repeated that he had always been prepared to pay additional mileage at 6p per mile but not 
at 10p per mile. He was no longer in a position to make any payment other than by modest 
instalments.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision why I thought that Mr M and VWFS had agreed that 
excess mileage would be charged at 10p per mile. I have not changed my view on that. Mr 
M has not paid any excess mileage. 
For clarification, VWFS should not have tried to contact Mr M using an incomplete address. 
But, for reasons set out in my provisional decision, any obligation he had to pay excess 
mileage did not depend on VWFS contacting him for payment. 
I do not believe that, when it had received no payment  even of sums not in dispute  it was 
unreasonable of VWFS to instruct a debt collector. No doubt that caused Mr M distress and anxiety, but it was a step which VWFS was entitled to take. And, whilst Mr M says that he 
has always been prepared to pay sums which are not in dispute, he has not actually done so 
 for several years. 
I note that Mr M says he cannot now make payment and will only be able to make a small 
monthly contribution. I shall therefore leave it to him and VWFS to agree the terms of any 
payment arrangement.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman