DRN-1596441
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint is about a term assurance policy they were sold in 2004. They 
believe that National Westminster Bank Plc, who was their mortgage lender at the time, 
should have ensured the advisor involved in their mortgage arrangements was regulated, so 
they would have some protection if things went wrong with the arrangements.
What happened
In the summer of 2004 Mr and Mrs N used an independent broker (JRT) to arrange a 
mortgage for them. At the time the JRT advised on mortgages, general insurance, life 
insurance, regulated insurance and investments. It was linked to a network of regulated 
independent financial advisers (which Mr and Mrs N have already been in contact with) for 
any regulated insurance or investment advice it gave.
However, the mortgage and general insurance advice JRT gave was given in its own right, 
not on behalf of any other business. At the time of the advice neither mortgages or general 
insurance products was regulated.
JRT recommended that Mr and Mrs N take out a NatWest mortgage and a term assurance 
policy with a provider SE. These arrangements remained in place for a number of years. 
However sometime after the sale Mr N tried to make a claim on the term assurance policy, 
but it was declined by SE. They were unhappy with this and complained to JRT. They were 
told that the policy was an unregulated one and so their complaint wouldnt be considered 
further.
Mr and Mrs N were unhappy with that response and felt that NatWest should take 
responsibility for the sale as it was linked to the life assurance company the policy was taken 
with and it had allowed JRT to sell it and the mortgage. NatWest didnt agree and told 
Mr and Mrs N that the JRT was an independent broker and it was not responsible for the 
advice they had received.
Unhappy with that, Mr and Mrs N referred their complaint to this service. They believe that 
as the direct debit instructions for the policy and the mortgage were signed in JRTs 
office there is a link between them. Mr and Mrs N also believe that there is a link between 
the policy provider SE and NatWest  that the group NatWest is a member of bought SE in 
the past.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didn't recommend it was upheld.   Mr  
and Mrs N didnt accept her conclusions and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
consideration.
On 9 January 2020 I issued a provisional decision. In that document I set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt of my provisional decision.
Whilst not core to the outcome of this case I think it would be helpful to explain that financial 
services products can be sold in a number of ways. The first is directly by the provider of the product or service. The second is by a firm which is not owned by the provider, but where 
there is a contract that ties them together  there is an agency arrangement and the provider 
will be responsible for the advice given. Another way is for the firm selling the product to be 
independent and able to sell products or services from a number of providers. In 
this situation the selling firm is responsible for its actions.
JRS sold products from a range of providers over a range of industry sectors. It wasnt an 
agent of any of them and it is responsible for its own actions in relation to the mortgages and 
insurance it sold. The fact that the mortgage or policy applications and direct debit mandates 
were signed in JRS offices doesnt indicate otherwise. Completing the administration of any 
application, and part of that is sorting out the payment arrangements, is part of a brokers 
role.
From the evidence I have, I cant see anything that would indicate NatWest was involved in 
Mr and Mrs Ns decision to use a broker to make their mortgage arrangements or the 
selection of which one. Whilst NatWest did allow JRS to sell its mortgage products, it is not 
that activity Mr and Mrs N are complaining about.
I have noted Mr and Mrs Ns belief that the Royal Bank of Scotland group, which NatWest is 
a member of, is connected to SE. I know this will disappoint them, but that is not the case. 
SE is a member of a different corporate group and neither the Royal Bank of Scotland group 
nor NatWest is linked to that business. So NatWest cant be held responsible for SEs 
decision to allow JRT to sell its products.
In light of the above, I can only find that NatWest is not responsible for the advice Mr and 
Mrs N received in relation to their mortgage arrangements, including that to take out the term 
assurance policy in question. It also has no responsibility for the suitability or otherwise of 
businesses SE allowed to sell its products. As such, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
NatWest didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mr and Mrs N said they didnt agree with 
my findings and that although the paperwork said it was unregulated they didnt understand 
what it meant at the time. 
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments from the outset to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. However, as neither party has 
provided any new evidence or submissions, I see no reason to alter my conclusions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 March 2020.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman