DRN-4103041
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about the way Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) has administered his 
mortgage account after it reached the end of its term.
Mr L is unhappy that BoS wasnt able to offer him a term extension, or to switch the 
mortgage to interest-only. Mr L was also unhappy, after he stopped paying the mortgage 
in May 2022, that BoS wrote to him about arrears. 
Mr L also said that BoS had promised to refund interest from April 2022 after hed asked 
for a redemption statement that hadnt been provided, but later went back on this 
promise.
In addition, Mr L is unhappy about wording BoS used in a final response letter dated 
27 October 2022, because he thought this meant BoS would be escalating the complaint 
to our service.
Mr L also complained about other matters, but these had not been brought to us within six 
months of the final response letters. BoS didnt consent to us considering them, and as there 
were no exceptional circumstances to explain the delay, we were unable to waive the time 
limits. Mr L has accepted this and so this decision is confined to those issues detailed above, 
which occurred after October 2021.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to more than a thousand pages of documents. 
Ive read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to 
the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition 
of arguments. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ive kept my findings to the issues which I 
consider to be relevant. Im not required to answer each and every point Mr L has made. My 
remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair and reasonable in the overall 
circumstances of the case.
I will therefore not set out here everything thats happened; the history of the matter is set 
out in detail in correspondence, and in the investigators letter dated 1 March 2023. All 
parties have a copy of that letter, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will 
instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are 
published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr L being 
identified. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls original interest-only mortgage term expired in May 2018. The mortgage was not 
repaid until December 2022. 
Mr L asked BoS to communicate with him in writing, which Im satisfied that it did. Before 
BoS could consider whether it would be possible to help Mr L with a new mortgage or a term 
extension, BoS needed to have information about Mr Ls financial circumstances. I 
understand why Mr L was reluctant to provide this; after hed done so in 2015, he was 
referred to StepChange. However, after reviewing the Income & Expenditure (I&E) 
assessment from Mr L in October 2022, BoS wasnt able to provide Mr L with any options 
going forward. This is because the I&E showed a substantial deficit between his income and 
expenditure of about £1,000 per month. 
BoS is under a regulatory obligation to ensure that the mortgages it offers are affordable. 
Based on the information provided by Mr L, there was no affordable solution that BoS could 
offer him. Im satisfied that this was a decision BoS was entitled to make, and that it did so 
fairly, after considering Mr Ls circumstances.
Given that it wasnt possible to offer Mr L a new mortgage product, it was reasonable for 
BoS to expect Mr L to take steps to repay the mortgage, given that the term had expired in 
2018. I appreciate Mr L was upset at receiving a letter from BoS in March 2022 that 
mentioned legal action. However, where there are no payment proposals, BoS is required to 
explain to borrowers who have defaulted on repaying their mortgage that legal action is a 
possibility.
Mr L stopped paying the monthly mortgage interest payments in May 2022. As a result, 
arrears began to accrue on the account and BoS wrote to Mr L about these. Whilst I 
acknowledge Mr L wasnt happy about this, Im satisfied BoS did nothing wrong; BoS is 
required to write to borrowers who miss payments, detailing the missed payments and the 
implications for the mortgage if there are arrears.
When Mr L wanted to redeem the mortgage in the autumn of 2022, he offered to pay BoS 
£115,700, which was less than half the amount outstanding on the loan. Im satisfied BoS 
wasnt under any obligation to accept a short settlement from Mr L.
One of Mr Ls main concerns is that in August 2022 BoS offered him a refund of interest. 
This is because, after hed requested a redemption figure on 19 April 2022, it wasnt 
provided. BoS said that it would request a redemption statement giving the current balance 
and if this figure were to be paid in a reasonable amount of time, then Id be happy to 
request any interest charged since 19 April 2022 is refunded back to you.
The mortgage account wasnt redeemed until 2 December 2022, with no reduction in 
interest. Im not persuaded that the request for a redemption figure in April 2022 was with a 
view to Mr L intending to redeem the mortgage in April 2022. Nor am I persuaded by the 
evidence that Mr L was in a position to redeem the mortgage in August 2022, or within a 
reasonable amount of time thereafter. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that BoS is under 
no obligation to reimburse Mr L for interest charged on the mortgage between 19 April 2022 
and 2 December 2022.
Mr L was confused about whether or not BoS had escalated a complaint to our service, and 
why it treated his correspondence as complaints. The regulations say that a complaint is an 
expression of dissatisfaction, to which businesses are required to respond. Once a final 
response letter is issued to a consumer, its up to the consumer to bring their complaint to 
us, which Mr L did in September 2022. I will also explain that I can only consider a complaint about regulated activities, or activities 
that are ancillary to regulated activities, for example account administration, advice or debt 
collection. Complaint-handling doesnt fall within the category of a regulated activity, nor an 
ancillary activity and so I cant make any further comment about this aspect of Mr Ls 
complaint.
I appreciate that this has been a stressful time for Mr L; he had a mortgage he was no longer 
able to afford, that was overdue for repayment by several years. I can understand that he felt 
under pressure. But overall, Im satisfied BoS didnt treat him unfairly, or fail to consider what 
options it could offer him. 
I see that BoS accepted it didnt reply to a letter from Mr L in April 2022, and paid him £80 
compensation for this. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable, and that BoS isnt required to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman