DRN-3938172
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs N complain about charges applied to their mortgage account with Kensington 
Mortgage Company Limited. They say they werent aware of the charges until recently. They 
ask that the charges are written off.
What happened
Mr J and Mrs N originally took out their interest only mortgage with another lender. It was 
sold to Kensington in May 2016.
Mr J says in 2022 they asked to switch their mortgage onto a capital repayment basis. 
Kensington said they couldnt do this until they paid outstanding charges of about £1,700. 
Mr J says they werent aware of these charges until then, and says the charges were applied 
wrongly. He says they cant afford to pay the charges and asks that they are written off. 
Our investigator said we cant look into whether the charges were applied fairly. He said as 
they were applied more than six years before Mr J and Mrs N made their complaint, this part 
of the complaint is outside our time limits. The complaint proceeded on this basis.
Our investigator said Kensington should have made Mr J and Mrs N aware of the charges, 
which are interest bearing, and give them an opportunity to pay them rather than add them 
to the mortgage balance. The annual statements didnt set out the charges separately, and 
Kensington couldnt provide evidence it had contacted Mr J and Mrs N about the charges 
since taking over the mortgage in 2016. The investigator said Kensington should pay 
compensation of £100.
Neither Kensington nor Mr J and Mrs N responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Kensington provided copies of letters sent to Mr J and Mrs N in May 2016 about the transfer 
of the mortgage to Kensington. It provided copies of annual mortgage statements sent to 
Mr J and Mrs N since 2016. 
Kensington also provided a copy of a letter sent to Mr J and Mrs N by their previous lender in 
May 2016. This set out their arrears balance and interest-bearing fees balance. Mr J says 
they didnt receive this letter.  
Kensington says these charges (which were applied by the previous lender) are included in 
Mr J and Mrs Ns mortgage balance. The charges dont appear separately on their annual 
mortgage statements. 
I think it would have been fair for Kensington to make Mr J and Mrs N aware of the charges, 
and that interest is applied to them. This would have allowed Mr J and Mrs N to consider 
whether to pay the charges.
Kensington cant provide evidence that it made Mr J and Mrs N aware of the charges 
(separate from the mortgage balance) until 2022, when Mr J says he asked about switching 
to a repayment mortgage. 
Mr J says they cant afford to pay the charges. I dont think I can fairly find that Mr J and 
Mrs N would have already paid the charges if Kensington had made them aware sooner. I 
can see from Kensingtons records that Mr J and Mrs N have, at times, had difficulty making 
their mortgage payments on time. 
While I can appreciate that finding out about the charges was upsetting for Mr J and Mrs N  
especially at a time when they cant easily pay them  I dont think this makes it fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to require Kensington to write off the charges. I think, for 
the upset caused, Kensington should pay £100 compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited should pay £100 to Mr J and 
Mrs N (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman