DRN-4040471
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that their home insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited, has 
unfairly and unreasonably declined their claim for malicious damage caused by a builder.
What happened
In 2015 Mr and Mrs B arranged with a local company to extend the rear of their home. Their 
garden sloped steeply away from the back of the house, and they wanted to change that by 
extending an existing terrace on a level with the house and adding a usable room in the 
space below, level with the remaining lawn. 
In August 2015 the contractor asked Mr and Mrs B for a deposit of £6,000, followed by two 
further payments of £6,000 a fortnight apart thereafter, with the progress of the work to then 
be reviewed. In October 2015 Mr and Mrs B emailed the contractor with various concerns 
about the progress of the contract, centring on how work already completed, as well as that 
planned for or felt to be necessary, had or hadnt been accounted for in the costings. And 
that the costs had sharply increased, with the contractor seemingly having asked for an extra 
£18,000 on top of agreed costs.
In November 2015 Mr B emailed the contractor. The email explains that, by now, 
Mr and Mrs B had expected the work to be finished  but that was not the case, and that in 
the last few weeks work had not progressed as agreed. On 20 November, an exchange of 
phone messages regarding faulty equipment being used in the rain, which had affected the 
homes electrical installation, took place. The contractor did not return to Mr and Mrs Bs 
home thereafter. Mr and Mrs B had paid the contractor a total of £24,000.
On 30 November 2015 Mr and Mrs B had a chartered engineer (L) visit their home. Ls letter 
of 2 December 2015 confirmed the visit had been undertaken in order to assess the recent 
construction work at the rear of the property and provide advice on how the work could be 
progressed to completion. L also recommended involving a structural engineer. 
Consequently B (a structural engineer) was appointed and wrote to Mr and Mrs B in 
January 2016. B said that he could not provide any costs for necessary work at that time as 
hed first need to know details about the work done to date.
 
In May 2016 Mr and Mrs B contacted Ageas. Ageas notes from the time show that the cover 
for malicious damage on the policy was discussed. The conversation with Ageas did not 
result in a claim being made at that time.
Mr and Mrs B sought further expert advice from F, a chartered engineer, in July 2016. Fs 
report of 29 July 2016, noted that the objective of the inspection was to..comment as far 
as possible on the seriousness of any damage seen and to suggest suitable remedial works 
if these were considered necessary. 
In July 2019 Mr and Mrs B reverted to Ageas. They felt they could claim for accidental or 
malicious damage and were unhappy that Ageas hadnt, in 2016, made them aware that 
they could potentially use their legal expenses policy to pursue the contractor. Ageas issued 
a final response to Mr and Mrs B in August 2019 but they remained unhappy with Ageas 
response and complained to this service. Our Investigator considered the matter and noted 
that Ageas had not formally assessed a claim on the policy for malicious damage. He 
thought it should do so. Regarding the legal expenses issue, he felt Ageas should pay £50 
compensation for poor customer service. Both parties agreed. 
Subsequently Ageas began considering the malicious damage claim under the buildings 
policy. It sent a loss adjuster (A) to the property. A discussed matters in some detail with 
Mr and Mrs B and, on 4 November 2020, told Ageas it had asked for more evidence to be 
provided to enable us to advise you fully on Quantum and Policy Liability issues. As report 
dated 31 December 2020 concluded that there was no evidence of any works, or damage 
caused during them, amounting to malicious damage under the policy, or any other event 
the policy offered cover for. A notified Mr and Mrs B, on behalf of Ageas, that the claim 
would not be admissible. In March 2021 Mr and Mrs B asked A to arrange for Ageas to 
write to them; Ageas wasnt minded to do so. In November and December 2021 Ageas told 
Mr and Mrs B that it had issued its final response to them regarding its liability for damage in 
2019 and nothing, in its view, had changed since, so it wasnt prepared to comment further.
In March 2022 Mr and Mrs B reverted to this service. They said that whilst Ageas was saying 
this was faulty workmanship  in the policy there was no exclusion for that in the malicious 
damage section, that was only in the accidental damage cover. They said Ageas had 
referenced an exclusion for faulty work in 2016  so it had provided incorrect advice at that 
time. Mr and Mrs B also noted that Ageas had told them that the policy doesnt cover them 
for civil issues, which they noted the policy also did not say. Mr and Mrs B said that As 
formal final report had not reproduced the hand-written report made on site, or the 
comments made, such as that A was truly shocked as to the vast extent of damage.
Mr and Mrs B explained that their health had suffered since the incident and with their 
dealings with Ageas. They explained that Ageas had repeatedly delayed and obstructed 
their claim, ignored their evidence and refused to provide them with a final response.
Mr and Mrs B provided an email report from a local building contractor M. M explained 
what had been seen at Mr and Mrs Bs property in 2017 and 2018, when assessing what the 
contractor had done in 2016, with a view to whether M could take on and complete the work. 
They also referenced the findings of architects who had also given their professional views  
with one (C) in 2022 stating the contractor had been reckless to proceed without planning 
permission.
Mr and Mrs B explained their view on the situation in more detail, looking at what the 
definition of malicious damage might be  the policy not having defined it  and explaining 
that, in this respect, there was damage which had, or must have, been done intentionally by 
the contractor. And that the contractors intention can be inferred by their recklessness. But 
even if what the contractor did is thought to be faulty workmanship, it is still damage and 
malicious damage caused by faulty workmanship is not excluded. They note that theyre 
required to report the matter to the police, which, belatedly, they had  but not that the police 
must pursue the matter criminally. They explained that whilst the contractor would never 
admit it, it did damage for weeks on the pretence of deceiving them into thinking work was 
being done so staged payments would be made. And the contractor had clearly never meant 
to finish the work as, for example, the ceiling height was far too low and topsoil needed for 
reinstating the lawn post-work, was removed from site. Mr and Mrs B contended that none of 
the work done had any value and to fix it will likely cause more damage to their home. They 
said the contractor was either reckless or a liar or both  any of which made the contractor 
malicious.
But Mr and Mrs B said they didnt think it was correct for the contractors motivations to be 
too closely considered  that many things in law that are seen as malicious damage, graffiti for example, dont contain any intent by the perpetrator to spitefully damage property. It also 
shouldnt matter that the contractors had their permission to be on the property. However, it 
was clear that the contractor, in stating that it could do this work, which was clearly untrue, 
had deceived its way onto the property. Mr and Mrs B said they cant understand how that 
cant meet the definition of malice.  
They said that as the policy is unclear on this, theyd considered what the Financial 
Ombudsman Service says in this instance, and about what damage and malicious damage 
is. They referred to some past decisions issued by this service. They explained why they felt 
all of these supported their contention that what their contractor did at their property should 
be covered by Ageas as malicious damage under their policy.
Mr and Mrs B also referenced the fact that Ageas had not advised them in 2016 to use their 
legal expenses cover to take the contractor to court. They couldnt have known, they said, 
for the need for them to have raised that issue separately  indeed changes to Ageas 
website in the years since show it was previously unclear. Mr and Mrs B said they expect 
legal advice at the time would have supported them in taking a case personally against the 
contractor, as opposed to the limited company, which would likely have been successful. 
They explained that they had consulted a local solicitor but that the expected likely costs had 
prohibited them taking that any further. And when our Investigator, considering their initial 
complaint, said it would be up to them to pursue a claim under their legal expenses cover if 
they wanted to do so  they hadnt felt well enough to do that alongside Ageas reviewing the 
malicious damage claim. Further, once Ageas had answered that and then spent months 
refusing to give them a final response, they felt so upset that their health was further affected 
so they then couldnt possibly pursue the legal expenses claim. They said that Ageas poor 
advice and actions in the years since had prevented them from making a legal expenses 
claim in time. 
They explained how theyve been affected in the years since engaging the contractor  that 
they cant sleep, concentrate or live in anyway normally. That they are constantly waiting and 
worrying about the propertys deterioration and/or collapse. Theyre living, Mr and Mrs B say, 
in a constant state of anxiety, plagued by thoughts of escape and the feeling of 
powerlessness to do so. Their position, financially and literally, they say is precarious and 
precipitous. Mr and Mrs B said that dealing with Ageas has been one of the worst 
experiences of their lives. They asked for Ageas to be made to accept their claim, which they 
felt they had proven as validly falling for consideration as malicious damage under the policy. 
Our Investigator said that whilst Ageas hadnt shown the claim was excluded, Mr and Mrs B 
had not shown that they had a claim that arose from malicious damage. He felt the 
motivation of the contractor was important here, as was the fact that Mr and Mrs B had been 
satisfied sufficiently by the work to pay the contractor. And he said that he had found As 
report more persuasive than Ms. So, overall, he felt the Ageas policy would not cover this 
situation, that Ageas refusal to assist had not been unfair.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the findings. They provided several extensive replies. They 
emphasised again that the contractor had clearly never intended to see out the job and had 
deceived them into thinking it, a landscaping contractor by name, could do this complex 
building work. A previous decision by this service, referenced before by Mr and Mrs B, was 
further highlighted. Mr and Mrs B said Ageas had chosen to design ambiguity into the policy 
when it had chosen to not define what it meant by malicious damage, and the consequences 
of that had to be that the definition of malicious which most favoured them had to be applied. 
Mr and Mrs B said they had only reported the matter to the police recently. That the policy 
doesnt require this any way, and even if it did it was unlikely that any failure by them in this 
respect had been material.Mr and Mrs B felt our Investigator hadnt addressed the narrative theyd provided which 
showed, in their view, the contractor had been malicious. Not least that it had been in the 
habit of closing its limited companies only to re-open shortly after under a similar name 
(often referred to as phoenixing). They said that A, rather than looking at the evidence of 
phoenixing, as highlighted by M, had merely sought to discredit Ms report. And, when they 
had emailed A shortly after their meeting, confirming that A had said there was malicious 
damage, A had not refuted that or corrected them. They said A had discredited itself with 
contradictions and overlooking inconvenient truths, so it wasnt reasonable to rely on its 
report at all. In their view Ms report is persuasive and their reports from architects and 
engineers needed proper consideration too  all of whom were better and more suitably 
qualified than A.
They restated their view that everything done by the contractor was with a view to supporting 
its effort to convince them to part with more money  that no damage was constructive it was 
all destructive. Clearly, they feel, this evidenced a malicious motivation. With the destructive 
nature of the damage and/or worthlessness of the work corroborated, they said, by M, 
architects and engineers. They referenced two press articles about rogue traders. They said 
they failed to see how our Investigator could conclude this was not malicious damage, or 
that they hadnt evidenced that it most likely was. And Ageas could have excluded malicious 
damage caused by rogue traders from the policy if it had wanted to but hadnt. They noted 
that Ageas had chosen to add an exclusion for faulty workmanship to the accidental damage 
cover. 
Mr and Mrs B said Ageas, then A, had only ever wanted to shut down their claim. That 
neither were interested in decency, honesty or fairness. They pointed out that Ageas own 
file shows that whilst it appointed A in the course of considering the malicious damage claim 
 it had told A it expected nothing to support such a claim would be found. Mr and Mrs B 
said that Ageas broke the law when it wrote the policy without defining the terms and it was 
now seeking to benefit from that law breaking by unfairly declining their claim  a decline 
which isnt supported by the policy wording, in law or in evidence. And they didnt think our 
Investigator had satisfactorily explained why their circumstances didnt meet the definitions 
of malicious damage used by Ombudsmen in decisions issued by this service.
They said Ageas cant be trusted, that it had constantly tried to deceive them and us. For 
example, Ageas had denied that they had made a complaint, in order to deceive us, only to 
then accept internally that a complaint had been made, meaning it should have provided a 
final response in 2021. It never did. 
Our Investigator provided a further response to Mr and Mrs B explaining why he felt the 
contractors actions did not amount to malicious damage. He said the key issue was whether 
the contractor had intended to cause damage and Ageas loss adjuster (A) had felt that 
wasnt the case.
The complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I felt that the outcome 
Ageas had reached was fair and reasonable  but that in a couple of respects it had 
mishandled things. So whilst I wasnt persuaded to say Ageas should change its position on 
the malicious damage claim, or that it was responsible for them not pursuing the legal option 
on their policy, I did think it should pay £500 compensation to Mr and Mrs B. I issued a 
provisional decision to explain my views to both parties. My provisional findings and award 
were: 
Mr and Mrs B have made a lot of points and my detailed background above reflects that. 
But it is likely that Mr and Mrs B may think I havent set out every point or concern theyve 
raised. I trust theyll understand though that I have to consider the issue at the heart of their complaint  the decline of the malicious damage claim. And so, whilst Ive considered 
everything theyve said, Ive noted above the concerns they have that the key issue really 
turns on. 
I appreciate that this has been an incredibly difficult time for Mr and Mrs B. I think its fair to 
say they feel scammed by the contractor  that they spent a lot of money with no result other 
than it will cost them a lot more to fix or even merely reinstate their property. I also know 
theyve felt stuck in the years since; unable to afford to change things and also unable to use 
their property as they had or even sell it. I dont doubt the worry and anxiety theyve suffered. 
And I can understand why they think that all tracks back to Ageas  that they think they have 
a valid claim, which theyve spent time and effort evidencing, and which Ageas has 
consistently denied.
At the outset here I think its worth noting that I do think Ageas has to bear some criticism for 
the way it has handled some things. Ive seen the note from Ageas when it had agreed to 
consider the claim in 2020 and it instructed A. Ageas told A that whilst it needed A to attend 
the property it didnt expect there to be any cover, so it just needed As assessment to rely 
on. I totally understand why, when Mr and Mrs B saw this, they were upset. I dont think that 
was fair or reasonable of Ageas  it comes over as it, essentially, telling A what it should 
find. There was also Ageas refusal to provide a final response having had A complete the 
assessment. Ageas said it felt it didnt have to as nothing had changed since 2019  but that 
cant possibly be a reasonable response because since 2019 Ageas had considered a claim, 
including obtaining evidence from its loss adjuster. I can again understand the frustration this 
caused Mr and Mrs B. I think some compensation is fairly and reasonably due for Ageas 
handling these things poorly. I think £500 in the circumstances of this claim and complaint is 
fair and reasonable. But I dont think that Ageas failures in these respects materially impacts 
on the claim outcome.
That said Im conscious that Mr and Mrs B feel that A either misled them or that As opinion 
changed between meeting on site and completing the formal written report which Ageas 
relied upon. That they feel there were also discrepancies between the hand-written site 
notes and the formal report. In this respect I dont think that A, or by association Ageas, 
failed Mr and Mrs B. I know their recollection of what was discussed on site was that A had 
agreed that malicious damage had occurred  but that is not what the hand-written site notes 
record. They show that damage was discussed, and A recorded what Mr and Mrs B said 
about it. But they also show that A explained to Mr and Mrs B that it was felt that the damage 
did not amount to malicious damage covered by the policy. And I think its also important to 
remember that site notes and a final report are written for different purposes. Clearly the site 
notes helped A record what issues were at hand, and here some initial views of A  that this 
was unlikely to be malicious damage  were recorded also. Whereas the formal report is a 
more considered document. As Mr and Mrs B know, A asked them for various documents 
following the site visit which, along with a full consideration of the policy, were all taken into 
account by A before making its report. So Im satisfied that A conducted a reasonable 
investigation and I dont think it misled Mr and Mrs B, mis-reported or changed its findings to 
suit the narrative Ageas had set out. But in light of the way Ageas instructed A, which Ive 
taken account of above, I can fully understand why Mr and Mrs B felt unable to trust As 
conclusions. All I can do here is assure them that Ive taken their views in this respect into 
account. That said, as the parties will see from my findings below, I am not persuaded that 
As view of things, in the end, is that material to my decision.  
The contract that exists between Mr and Mrs B and Ageas does require  under 12 How to 
make a claim  that for certain claims, including those for malicious damage, the police are 
notified. I mention this here as I know Mr and Mrs B have been concerned as to whether or 
not the policy did require them to contact the police, with Ageas at one time referencing this 
as a bar to policy cover. However, this wasnt ever the main reason for Ageas declining the claim. That always centred on whether or not the policy would respond to the reported 
damage. 
The policy in question is a perils based policy. That means that Ageas will respond to claims 
for damage caused by certain perils/ events. There are other types of policy that will offer 
cover for any damage, howsoever caused. The insurer for those policies will respond to any 
damage and if it wants to deny cover it will likely have to show that a policy exclusion 
applies. But a perils based policy is different. A perils based policy still contains some 
exclusions  and if an insurer wants to rely on them, to limit or decline liability, it will be up to 
it to prove they reasonably apply. The policy likely wont list what it doesnt cover, only what 
is included, with relevant exclusions applying. The important thing though  and which 
sometimes even insurers dont explain very well in considering claims  is that initially, the 
policyholder first has to show, on the face of it, that they likely have a claim under one of the 
perils included in the policy. A claim can still be excluded even if there is no policy 
exclusion, if the damage has been caused by a peril not covered (included) in the policy.
In this case the Ageas policy does contain an exclusion for faulty work  but only in relation 
to accidental damage. It is not a general exclusion (as many household policies contain), 
and nor is it a specific exclusion for the malicious damage peril. The issue here then is 
whether or not the damage Mr and Mrs B have suffered is most likely malicious damage  
which is a peril covered by the Ageas policy. Ageas has argued it is not malicious damage  
that its most likely poor or incomplete work  which is not a peril covered by the policy.
The policy does not define what is meant by malicious damage. But it doesnt have to. No 
insurance policy of which I am aware contains a definition for every word or term used. To 
do so would be confusing at best. Rather insurers define terms which they want to give a 
specific meaning to. Any terms in the policy which are not defined are taken to have a 
normal, everyday meaning. Ageas has chosen to do that here with malicious damage.  So 
the fact that Ageas has not defined the term, does not mean it has created a lack of clarity in 
the policy. As such, it is my view, that the rule and approach, which apply when a lack of 
clarity has been caused by an insurer, dont apply here. Which means it is the everyday 
meaning of malicious damage which needs to be used when considering whether Ageas has 
acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim.
I think its fair to say that the everyday meaning of malicious includes an acceptance that 
the perpetrator is acting in an unkind way towards the victim, that the perpetrator wants to 
harm the victim, most usually by damaging the victims property or belongings, for no other 
reason than to cause them upset. The everyday meaning of malicious does not usually 
extend to the perpetrator being malicious due to reckless behaviour or disregard for whether 
or not their actions cause damage. Indeed, recklessness or disregard would clearly lack the 
intent for any resultant damage to be considered malicious.
In the circumstances here, Mr and Mrs B have consistently argued that the contractors did 
damage at their home under the guise of work to deceive them into paying it more money. 
To me that is more akin to an action of fraud or theft, not a spiteful action born out of a desire 
to merely cause upset. So I can understand why Ageas, regardless of agreeing to consider 
the claim, has maintained that the damage at the property is not malicious damage as 
covered by the policy.
I am, of course, aware of the decisions that Mr and Mrs B have highlighted as being issued 
by other Ombudsman at this service in respect of malicious damage claims. Its worth noting 
here that no Ombudsman decision sets a precedent for another. Rather each case is 
assessed on its own merits. However, I can see why Mr and Mrs B feel that one of the 
decisions that theyve particularly highlighted has some relevance to their situation.The decision in question concerns a trader who the complainant had contracted to do repairs 
at her home. Money exchanged hands, the complainant believed work was done externally, 
the trader left and water damage to the home was found internally. The complainant had 
claimed from her insurer under the cover on her policy for vandalism and malicious acts. The 
insurer agreed to cover the internal water damage but not the external area which had been 
left in a damaged state. Our Ombudsman found that the external area should be covered by 
the insurer. As Mr and Mrs B believe their contractor only caused damage at their home, 
whilst taking money from them, I can see why they think its relevant that our Ombudsman 
upheld this other complaint.
The Ombudsman in that complaint did find that the external area had been damaged as part 
of a malicious act by the trader. But I dont think the decision can be directly compared to 
Mr and Mrs Bs situation. Seemingly material from the external surface was removed, torn 
up, and no attempt was made to reinstate the area. So I think its fair to say, in that case, 
where the trader had been contracted to complete a repair, that no work was done  only 
damage. I think that is very different to what happened at Mr and Mrs Bs home where the 
contract involved an element of preparation work in digging out the area and the contractor 
did do work at the property over a number of weeks, including transplanting plants, digging 
out and installing a retaining wall. Whether that work was of quality or not is a different 
matter. But it does make the circumstances different from those considered by my fellow 
Ombudsman in the comparison decision. However, and for completeness, I have considered 
the evidence which exists about the work that was done at Mr and Mrs Bs home. 
Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs B have provided various evidence over the period since 
their contractor left their home which they feel shows the work done had no worth. I accept 
that, as recently as 2022, an architect having considered the property in the years since the 
contractor left, confirmed that he felt the contractor had been reckless to proceed without 
planning permission. And another architect, in 2017, had recommended demolition as the 
best way forwards. Further that M, a builder, having seen the property in 2017, confirmed in 
2022 that he felt no work of worth had been done. But Im not persuaded that the views of 
these professionals are the most relevant here. I say that as theyve come quite some time 
after the incident in question and they have been put forward by professionals with less 
relevant qualifications than those that saw the property and provided their views much closer 
to the incident date. 
In that respect, in late 2015 and through summer 2016 three engineers, L, B and F, 
assessed the work that had been done at Mr and Mrs Bs home. None of them said the work 
was so bad it had no worth. Nor that the only way to rectify the situation was to demolish 
everything and start again. L felt the work/project could be completed. B didnt say that 
couldnt be done, rather that in order to say what that might involve, more detail about the 
construction would need to be known. F found no damage to the house and that there was 
no sign of major distress to the partially completed structure. F did have some concerns 
though about how the retaining wall, built by the contractors, had been constructed and its 
fitness for purpose, particularly in light of the known soil type in the area. F does discuss the 
necessity of demolition  but on the basis that it cant be known how the construction was 
completed, which isnt quite the same as something needing to be demolished because it is 
faulty/dangerous/of no worth. And even having taken all of that into account  Fs 
recommendation is to progress the project with what is already there being left in place and 
built upon. I think L, B and Fs views, the latter of which is the most detailed, are persuasive 
evidence of the contractors work not being entirely without merit or equivalent to no more 
than mindless, destructive damage. 
I know that some existing, or previously existing structures and/or fixings at Mr and Mrs Bs 
home were also damaged or removed by the contractor. They generally feel this is further 
indication of the contractors malice, as they hadnt agreed to some of the things that were done, or hadnt been told theyd be done. They also felt some, like removing the topsoil from 
the site, showed the contractor had no intention of completing work. Im not persuaded the 
latter is the case  all too often poor and ill-thought out work is completed by contractors. 
However, it isnt necessary for me to know why these things might have occurred, only to 
consider whether theyre most likely indications of malicious damage. And, in that respect, 
Im drawn back to whether or not the contractor did these things to harm Mr and Mrs B  and 
I have not seen anything that makes me think that is the case. 
Rather they all appear to have been damaged in the course of the contractor carrying out 
work at the property. And if some of that work or those actions werent agreed by 
Mr and Mrs B then that isnt evidence of malice, such as would be needed for malicious 
damage cover on a household insurance policy. 
Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs B, following our Investigators view on their previous 
complaint, did not make a claim on their legal expenses cover. They believe that if things 
had been different, theyd have utilised this policy benefit, which would have enabled them to 
issue proceedings against the former director of the limited company on the basis of 
negligence, which the limited company status, and that company having been dissolved, 
would not protect the former director from. I know that they feel Ageas prevented them from 
doing this  firstly because it didnt give them correct advice in 2016, and secondly because 
when they were aware they could take a legal expenses claim, the dispute with Ageas had 
taken its toll and they couldnt face pursuing a legal claim too.   
I appreciate, as I stated at the start, that this has been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs B. And 
I recognise that their health has been affected and theyve struggled at times to cope. I was 
also critical of Ageas in a few aspects for which Ive said I intend toward compensation. But 
I dont think that Ageas got the claim so wrong, either in its outcome or its overall handling of 
it, that I can reasonably conclude it is responsible for Mr and Mrs B not feeling able to pursue 
the legal option they had on their policy. 
In summary then I think Ageas conclusion that it had no liability under the malicious damage 
cover on the policy for the condition which Mr and Mrs Bs contractor left their property in 
was a fair and reasonable one. I think it would not be fair or reasonable for me to make it 
accept any of that damage as being malicious and therefore subject to cover on the policy. 
I also think it wouldnt be fair to blame Ageas for Mr and Mrs B not pursuing a legal 
expenses claim in the years since the incident. Overall, I dont think Ageas handled things 
too badly  but Ive identified a couple of issues where I think it did fail them. And Ive 
awarded some compensation in this respect. I know my decision, provisional as it is, will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs B. That is regrettable. But I can assure them that in reaching 
my decision I have taken into account all of their arguments and evidence.
Im minded to require Ageas to pay Mr and Mrs B £500 compensation.
Ageas said it accepted my findings. Mr and Mrs B provided a detailed reply setting out the 
concerns they have with my findings but also why they disagree with the outcome reached. 
Ive summarised their replies below.
They detailed again what had happened between them and the contractor emphasising 
theyd had no choice to pay more money based on the contractors calculated extortion. And 
my use of phrases such as they said added a layer of ambiguity to what was actual fact. 
They said theyre unhappy that I included what Ageas and our Investigator had said without 
applying any critical thinking or qualification to that. They said they didnt agree with the 
Investigators findings from 2020.Mr and Mrs B said that they are not to blame in this circumstance. That they are the victims. 
That the contractor told lies upon lies and what was done went far beyond what I had 
described as poor and ill-thought out work.
They detailed further concerns they have with As actions and reports. Including that the 
individual which visited their home has not specifically denied agreeing there was malicious 
damage. 
Mr and Mrs B said that they havent seen Ageas full file submissions. Whereas detail they 
have sent to us has been automatically shared with Ageas. They dont know if what Ive said 
is the view of the Financial Ombudsman Service or Ageas, and Ageas has sought to deceive 
the Financial Ombudsman Service before.
They said they dont accept my view on the everyday meaning of malicious. Their research 
shows that common usage rarely reflects your quite strict and narrow explanation. 
Mr and Mrs B provided a variety of examples to show this, explaining they include reckless 
disregard and general destruction and defacement of property, where intention is imputed 
because of the act itself. Which they feel other decisions by our service reflect. They gave 
further detail about their views on the contractors actions, with supporting email 
correspondence, explaining again that he clearly had no intent to do the job contracted for. 
And even the transplanting the contractor did, had no chance of being successful.   
They contest that by not defining what it means by malicious damage there is no ambiguity. 
They feel that at least the headline perils should be explained. Mr and Mrs B said theyve 
found a statistic which shows around half of all claims made to Ageas are declined  so that 
must mean, Mr and Mrs B say, that half of Ageas policyholders are unclear about the cover 
Ageas offers, which must mean its policy is unclear. 
Mr and Mrs B said Ageas has never demonstrated any duty of care  it had misadvised them 
and failed them at every turn, consistently trying to place blame on them for what it had got 
wrong. They feel its association with a charity further misleads its policyholders whilst giving 
it a constant supply of vulnerable customers. They note it has many unhappy customers and 
feel this must be because it unfairly declines claims. Mr and Mrs B said it had acted in bad 
faith towards them on numerous occasions.
They noted that As representative had said this was the second worst situation he had ever 
seen and that work would likely need starting again. They emphasised that this was exactly 
what M had said in his report  which had been provided at no cost to them as a goodwill 
gesture from someone they did not know privately. They feel that these views should not be 
dismissed, and nor should that of the architects, including one who had attended with L and 
B in late 2015/early 2016. And the local authority building control team said the room the 
contractor was meant to have been creating, could only be a garden store. They are 
definitely, they said, worse off as a result of the contractors work.
Mr and Mrs B provided further detail about contact theyd had with a solicitor, regarding 
dealings that solicitor had previously with the contractor. They said A had told them, 
establishing a chain of past similar behaviour by the contractor could help their claim. They 
said they had certainly done this through contact with the solicitor.
Mr and Mrs B explained the huge impact this has had on them; financially, mentally and 
physically. They maintained that their not pursuing the contractor in the courts, via the legal 
cover on their policy, is indeed Ageas fault.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry if my background detail set out provisionally upset Mr and Mrs B  but it is a 
summary of what had happened to get the parties to the point of my involvement. So it 
necessarily has to include things like our Investigators findings  which I know Mr and Mrs B 
disagreed with and were unhappy about when they were issued in 2022. All of that detail 
brought us to the point of my provisional findings, where I reviewed the complaint afresh and 
where I reached my own conclusions on it. As my findings superseded our Investigators 
view and were much more detailed, I issued my provisional decision. Im satisfied by the 
accuracy of what I set out provisionally and Ive used it again in this final decision.
I noted provisionally that Mr and Mrs B felt scammed. I certainly respect that they feel they 
are victims here. Of course theyll also understand that in terms of the contract in place 
between themselves and the contractor, I cant make a formal finding of wrong-doing against 
the contractor. That is not because I am giving the contractor any benefit of doubt. Rather, 
its because my remit only extends to considering the acts of financial businesses, like 
insurers, like Ageas.
Prior to Mr and Mrs B responding to my provisional decision the documents I had relied upon 
on reaching those findings were shared with Mr and Mrs B. I understand that they had seen 
most of that detail already but that they think there is more  however, as part of this 
decision process, I have shared with them what Ive relied upon. And as my provisional 
findings explain  in the circumstances here, most of my findings revolve around answering 
Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about things like our previous decisions, whether the policy was 
clear and the meaning of malicious damage. And why, in light of all of that, Ageas decision 
to decline the claim for malicious damage was, in my view, fair and reasonable. There isnt 
much which really turns on Ageas submissions to this service. 
I did, however, consider provisionally concerns raised by Mr and Mrs B about As reports. 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs B recall the individual that visited their property as agreeing 
there was malicious damage  but that is not what was reflected by the notes taken on site. 
I wasnt present at the time of the visit, so didnt hear the conversation. But Im mindful that 
two parties to a conversation can come away from it, even immediately afterwards, with 
different understandings of what was said. Ive reviewed the site notes, as requested by 
Mr and Mrs B, in light of comments theyve provided about what they think they show. 
I remain of the view provisionally reached: Im satisfied that A conducted a reasonable 
investigation and I dont think it misled Mr and Mrs B, mis-reported or changed its findings to 
suit the narrative Ageas had set out. 
I note and respect the detail Mr and Mrs B have found and provided about the common 
everyday usage of the phrase malicious. But I stand by what I said in this respect 
provisionally. Further, having noted that Mr and Mrs B felt that the contractor had only done 
damage, which must, therefore, be malicious, I explained provisionally that the expert 
evidence they provided did not support that only damage was done by the contractor. So 
I remain of the view this was not an instance of malicious damage. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B feel the policy is unclear. But, as I explained provisionally, 
there is no requirement for an insurer to explain every term  it is up to each which they 
choose to define. The fact that Ageas has chosen to not give a specific definition to the peril 
of malicious damage does not make the policy unclear. And it would be inappropriate for me 
to make any finding about the statistic referenced by Mr and Mrs B.  No details about the 
declined claims, or even the types of policy they were made under, are known. My focus has to be on Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about their claim which Ageas declined under the policy 
which exists between them. Im not persuaded that policy is unclear. 
I cant comment on the way Ageas generally comports itself. The way a business acts 
generally is a matter for the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority. In respect of this 
claim I did accept, and explained, that, in my view, Ageas had not always dealt fairly with 
Mr and Mrs B, that this had affected their ability to trust it and I awarded compensation. I see 
from its reply, Ageas has accepted that. I trust that may provide some solace to 
Mr and Mrs B, that it has been recognised that they were failed. But I also explained that 
those claim handling failures did not, in my view, materially affect the fairness and 
reasonableness of the claim decision reached.   
I explained provisionally why I felt the most relevant expert evidence came from the 
engineers, commenting most recently after the contractor walked away; which I referenced 
as L, B and F. Mr and Mrs B have said an architect attended with L and B, and confirmed in 
an email that what had been done would have to be demolished. Bs report from 
January 2016 confirms the architect was involved at that time. I considered the email 
Mr and Mrs B have referenced when making my provisional decision, its dated 
January 2017. I stand by my provisional assessment that the reports from L, B and F are 
most relevant. And whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B have sought to establish a chain of 
behaviour by the contractor, I can only reasonably consider what the expert evidence says 
about the work the contractor completed at their home as far as that pertains to whether it 
was all just destructive. In considering those reports I considered their full content and took 
into account the purpose for which they were written. I dont doubt there was poor work done 
at Mr and Mrs Bs home and from the expert views available, it seems that what was done 
was likely not fit for purpose. But the expert engineers do not completely slate and criticise 
what was done. If only destruction had occurred at the property, I think these experts would 
have been able to see that and would have said so. I remain of the view that this expert 
evidence does not show that the contractors work was entirely without merit or equating to 
no more than mindless destruction.
As I said provisionally, I accept that for Mr and Mrs B, this has been an extremely difficult 
time. And I dont doubt that their health has been affected. But I note that even in their 
response to my provisional findings they explain that their poor health was in no small part 
due to the treatment theyd received from the contractor. It wasnt just any failure by Ageas 
that had impacted them. And I bear in mind that although they were struggling with poor 
health, Mr and Mrs B were able to pursue Ageas via a complaint to this service. Further, 
whilst theyve explained that their health meant it was impossible for them to pursue both 
avenues, they chose one over the other. I appreciate that this is difficult for Mr and Mrs B to 
accept, but having reviewed everything, from my removed and impartial position, I remain of 
the view that Ageas cant fairly and reasonably be held liable for them not pursuing the legal 
option they had on their policy.
I understand how important this complaint is for Mr and Mrs B. I can assure them that 
I understand the unbelievably difficult situation they are in. And I have carefully considered 
and understood everything theyve said, all the arguments theyve made and the evidence 
theyve presented. But, with all that in mind, I remain of the view that Ageas claim decision 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and that whilst it did fail them, its failures did 
not prevent them from pursuing the legal option they had on their policy.
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr and Mrs B, my views have not 
changed from those issued provisionally. As such my provisional findings, along with my 
comments here, are now the findings of this my final decision. Putting things right
I require Ageas to pay Mr and Mrs B £500 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman