DRN-4210696
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Capital Professional Limited, who were trading as Ascot 
Lloyd (Capital), failed to forward on premium reminder letters. As a result, their premiums 
for their longstanding life policy went unpaid and the policy lapsed. 
What happened
Mrs and Mrs W held their life policy, written in trust, since 1980. In July 2017 they wrote to 
the policy provider as they wanted to change the policy trustees. They also provided new 
address details but further confirmation from the trustees was required. In the meantime,               
Mr and Mrs Ws old address was deleted from the policy providers records. 
Mr and Mrs W have told us that although they werent aware of it, their policy was linked to a 
firm of financial advisers  Ascot Lloyds (Capital)  and the policy provider had written to that 
business five times. Mr and Mrs W wrote to Ascot Lloyd on 17 March 2020 asking why it had 
not forwarded the premium reminder letter and four further chaser letters received from the 
policy provider. They didnt receive any reply.
Remaining dissatisfied, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
She detailed the letters that had been generated by the policy provider. The last two 
of which were sent to Capital.
Capital told us that the only commission or fees it received was in September 2017. 
There wasnt any client agreement for an ongoing service and the commission it did 
receive related to the setting up of the policy and not ongoing service. 
Capital had said it hadnt received any of the reminders sent in 2018 and if it had, 
those letters didnt provide a plan number it would have recognised.
The investigator had seen a copy of the premium reminder letter sent to                  
Mr and Mrs W in 2003. A copy was provided to Capital who wrote to remind            
Mr and Mrs W on 17 September 2003. 
The policy provider wrote to Mr and Mrs W in June 2016 advising the premium was 
due. This was paid by Mr and Mrs W and copies were sent by the policy provider to 
Capital. 
Both of those reminders listed Mr and Mrs Ws name and address plus quoting the 
policy number ended 9545 which matched the names and policy number listed in 
correspondence in 2003 and 2016. 
But on balance, the investigator didnt think that Capital had received the two 
reminder letters of November and December 2018 so couldnt uphold the complaint. 
She did think the offer of £200 for Capitals failure to respond to their complaint was 
fair. 
Mr and Mrs W were disappointed with the outcome. They said it would be difficult to prove 
that Capital had received the 2018 correspondence but if the business address was valid 
then on balance it was unlikely that it didnt receive any of the five letters. And Mr and Mrs W 
hadnt advised the policy provider of any change of address for Capital, so they presumed 
that Capital themselves had updated the policy provider about its change of address.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and broadly for the 
same reasons. I will explain why. 
The crux of this complaint is whether Capital received the reminder letters. And if it did, 
would it be reasonable to conclude that it should have sent those reminders onto                
Mr and Mrs W. 
Its clear there were issues with Mr and Mrs Ws address. They had changed this in          
July 2017 and were told by the policy providers that it would need further confirmation from 
the trustees. In the meantime, Mr and Mrs Ws old address was removed from the policy 
providers system. But that is a separate issue which I am not considering here. 
However, I have seen evidence of a screenshot from the policy provider dated                      
8 August 2018 that the policy was;
marked as Gone Away and the FA [financial adviser] is not authorised, so we are 
currently unable to chase for the premium arrears. Please can you begin the Gone 
Away process for this policy?
The address details of the copy of the first reminder letter, dated 14 September 2018 shows 
the following;
[Full names of Mr and Mrs W]
Address Removed. Please See
Policy Trace 29/08/2017.
The second reminder sent on 5 October 2018 also had the same address information, as did 
the third chaser sent on 12 October. We asked the policy provider about this who confirmed 
that these three letters werent sent to Capital. So, Capital couldnt have taken any action up 
until this point. 
But clearly something happened on the policys account sometime after 12 October 2018 as 
the fourth reminder letter dated 7 November 2018 was now addressed to the predecessor 
business of Capital with the comment Please forward this letter to your clients as we do not 
have an address. Mr and Mrs W have said they hadnt advised the policy provider of any 
change of address for Capital, so Capital must have done this. I think that is likely and what I 
would expect to happen when one business takes over another and it has a relationship with 
the policy provider. 
The final letter dated 12 December 2018 is addressed to Capital (the business having now 
changed) with the heading Please can you forward this letter to the client as we do not hold 
an up-to-date address for them.The investigator concluded that it was more likely than not that Capital didnt receive those 
letters. That was because there wasnt any evidence  such as postal records  that the 
letters ought to have been received by Capital or the predecessor business. 
However, if I conclude it was more likely than not that Capital (and the predecessor 
business) received those two letters I would have to go on to consider what action, if any, it 
could or should have taken. 
Mr and Mrs W had changed their address sometime around July 2017. But it seems unlikely 
that Capital was aware of this as Mr and Mrs W say they didnt know their policy was linked 
to a financial adviser. So, I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have thought or known to 
contact the financial adviser now linked to their policy as they werent aware of its existence 
in the first instance.  
Capital has said that it doesnt have any evidence that it had a client agreement with Mr and 
Mrs W for any ongoing service. It did however receive renewal commission for the policy in 
2017  which isnt an unusual arrangement as it related to the setting up of the policy  but 
after that it stopped  post renewal. So I need to consider whether there is anything that 
happened previously in the relationship between Mr and Mrs W and Capital that leads me to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs W could have expected Capital to have taken some sort of action 
if it had received the letters as Capital had acted in that way in the past and which would 
lead them to consider that was a reasonable expectation. 
Capitals file for Mr and Mrs W only has two records. One relates to correspondence in 2003 
and the other in 2016. 
The 2003 correspondence is a letter dated 17 September 2003 sent by predecessor of 
Capital to Mr and Mrs W. That refers to it being contacted by the policy provider as the 
premium on Mr and Mrs Ws policy was outstanding. I also note the policy provider wrote to 
Mr and Mrs W direct with the same information on 14 September 2003 so I even though its  
clear at that point that Capital had taken some action on the accounts behalf, by contacting 
Mr and Mrs W, they werent solely reliant on Capital for the reminder. 
The next correspondence is from August 2016. The policy provider copied (the predecessor 
business of) Capital into a letter it had sent to Mr and Mrs W on 10 August 2016 confirming 
receipt of their payment of the policy premium that had been due. That information was for 
Capitals records and didnt require to take any action.
So, the last proactive action that had been taken by Capital (or its predecessor business) 
had been in 2003 when it wrote to Mr and Mrs W after being prompted to do so by the policy 
provider. And bearing in mind that Capital didnt have an ongoing relationship with              
Mr and Mrs W, then I dont think it would be reasonable for Mr and Mrs W to have relied 
upon Capital to have reminded them if there was a premium due on their own life policy  
albeit written in trust  for which they were sent reminders direct from the policy provider. 
Even if Capital had received the letters from the policy provider in November and December 
2018 it would have been clear to Capital that Mr and Mrs W had changed their address. 
Otherwise the policy provider wouldnt have had to send those letters which were headed 
Please forward this letter to your clients as we do not have an address. 
And Mr and Mrs W hadnt informed Capital of their new address so it wouldnt have known 
where to send those letters onto in any event. Mr and Mrs W have said that their old address 
is a family property and they would have received any correspondence that was sent there. 
But Capital wouldnt have known this. And I wouldnt have expected Capital to send those 
letters on to an address where  as far as it was aware  it was clear the recipients were no longer living. So, I dont think there was any way Capital  even if had received those letters 
 could have forwarded those letters as it hadnt been made aware of Mr and Mrs Ws new 
address. 
Taking all of the above into account, I cant conclude that Capital has done anything wrong. 
There is no evidence that it has an ongoing servicing agreement with Mr and Mrs W to carry 
out any actions on their policy. And if it had received the two letters in November and 
December 2018 it wouldnt have known where to have sent them. It follows that I dont 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
No doubt Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed with the outcome. I do appreciate the policy, 
the premiums which they have been paying for many years, has now lapsed. But I hope I 
have been able to explain how and why I reached the decision that I have. 
When Mr and Mrs W wrote to Capital in 2020 no further action was taken by Capital as it 
said the address and plan number didnt match its records. But it did offer £200 for its non-
response to the 2020 correspondence and the inconvenience this must have caused            
Mr and Mrs W. I think that offer is a reasonable one and a fair reflection of the inconvenience 
Mr and Mrs W would have been caused. If they havent already done so, it is now for          
Mr and Mrs W to decide whether to accept that offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman