DRN-1648479
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) didnt credit funds to her account when 
she transferred them from her bank account in Switzerland. The payment was made on 20 
December 2018 and the funds credited Miss Ss Revolut account in September 2019.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
On the whole, our investigator didnt conclude that Revolut had acted unfairly. She didnt 
think it was responsible for the entire delay to Miss Ss transfer crediting her account. But 
she did recommend that Revolut should pay Miss S £50 compensation for asking her for 
information that it already had, and for a delay of around two weeks. 
Revolut agreed with the investigators recommendations but Miss S didnt. Miss S 
maintained that Revolut had caused the delay for around 10 months.
As the case still hasnt been resolved it has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree that the recommendation made by the investigator is 
a fair way to resolve the complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss S requested details from Revolut in December 2018 about how to make a transfer 
from her Swiss bank account to Revolut, via the in-app chat facility. Revolut gave Miss S 
some brief information and directed her to a particular area of its app to find out exactly 
what information was needed in order for the transfer to credit Miss Ss account. I note 
Miss S has provided a screen shot of that page in the app. It includes a reference number 
under the heading Dont forget this reference, the International Bank Account Number 
(IBAN) and the Bank Identification Code (BIC). 
I think its fair to say that Revolut made it clear that it was important to include all of the 
information from the app when making a bank transfer. And Revoluts terms and 
conditions, under the section headed 12. Adding money to my account, state the 
following:
When you add money by bank transfer, you must use the account details stated in the 
Revolut app. When we receive the money we will add the equivalent value of e-money to your 
account. Make sure you follow the prompts from the app carefully to avoid any delays.
Miss S first raised the issue with Revolut in March 2019, when she explained to Revout 
that the payment hadnt arrived in her Revolut account. The chat logs show that Revolut 
requested Miss S provide a confirmation from her Swiss bank that the payment had been 
sent, and which details were used. Miss S explained that she had asked for this 
information from the Swiss bank, but she hadnt received it. Revolut explained  several 
times  that it needed this confirmation to locate the payment and credit it to Miss Ss 
account. I understand that Miss S was finding it difficult to obtain a payment confirmation 
from the Swiss bank as her account had been closed; but she was also repeatedly 
insistent that Revolut should be doing this for her, which it explained it wasnt able to do. 
This issue wasnt resolved in March 2019 and Miss S contacted Revolut about it again in 
June 2019. At that time Revolut again requested a payment confirmation from the Swiss 
bank, which Miss S didnt provide. At that time, Miss S provided a copy of the handwritten 
payment instruction that shes provided to the Swiss bank. I can see the request did 
include the details that Revolut required. But importantly, this wasnt a confirmation that 
the payment had been made correctly. It was simply a form showing that Miss S had 
correctly requested the payment to be made. I also note that the reference had been 
added to the form as a note at the side, as opposed to in a specific section, as there 
wasnt one available. So I think its likely this couldve been overlooked when the payment 
was processed by the Swiss bank. The issue wasnt resolved at this point as Miss S 
stopped responding to the in-app chats, so the chat was closed.
Miss S followed up the issue in on 4 September 2019. At this point she provided Revolut 
with a letter from the Swiss bank confirming the transfer details. The letter confirmed the 
beneficiary details of the payment, including the correct IBAN and BIC. But it didnt 
confirm that the reference number had been included on the payment. Revolut says that 
this is why the payment went astray. It has explained that funds received into its Swiss 
Franc account are pooled and the unique reference number (which appears to have 
been omitted when the payment was sent) is used to allocate it to the correct account. 
I acknowledge that it took over six months from when Miss S first raised this issue with 
Revolut until the payment was credited to her account. And I appreciate thats frustrating and 
worrying for Miss S. But as Ive explained, I dont think that was Revoluts or Miss Ss fault. It 
appears that the reference number Revolut required, and that Miss S requested, werent 
included when the payment was made by the Swiss bank. The chat logs show that Revolut 
told Miss S what information it needed in order to locate the payment the first time she 
contacted it, although Miss S wasnt able or willing to provide that immediately. But once she 
did, the payment was located within two weeks and credited to her account. So I cant hold 
Revolut responsible for the delay in locating the payment up to 4 September 2019 as this 
was reliant on Miss S providing the information that Revolut needed. 
I note that whilst Miss S was following up on the issue issue with Revolut on 6 September 
2019, it asked her for the IBAN and BIC again, as well as asking her to complete an MT103 
form. This understandably caused Miss S some distress as she had already provided the 
confirmation of transfer that Revolut had requested, so it already had this information. And 
she also stressed that she hadnt previously been asked for the MT103 form. Miss S didnt 
provide any additional information, but the payment was then located by Revolut using some 
of the other details provided on the transfer confirmation. This took almost two weeks  from 
4 September 2019 until it was credited on 13 September 2019.Overall, I dont think Revolut is responsible for Miss Ss payment not crediting her account 
when it was sent until 4 September 2019. But I do think it couldve been more helpful and 
located the payment more quickly from 4 September 2019 when she provided the transfer 
confirmation, until it was credited on 13 September 2019. So I think the £50 compensation 
that Revolut has already agreed is a fair way to resolve the complaint,
It follows that I uphold this complaint in part.
 Putting things right
I require Revolut Ltd to pay Miss S £50 compensation for the delay in locating her payment 
between 4 and 13 September 2019. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and I require Revolut Ltd to do what 
Ive said above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman