DRN-3723471
The complaint
Mrs C says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, has treated her unfairly in relation to a transaction 
on her credit card which paid for flights.
What happened
In May 2021 Mrs C used her Tesco credit card to make payment for flights through an 
introducer, whod arranged return flights with three different airlines to South America via 
North America. Mrs C was due to fly in mid-December 2021. Mrs C was required to have fit-
to-fly proof regarding her Covid status to fly. She took the fit-to-fly test and on the day prior 
to flying she was informed she had a positive test for Covid. Mrs C tried to liaise with the 
introducer but was told it had cancelled all her flights. So she complained to the Introducer 
but was unsuccessful in getting an agreeable solution. So she complained to Tesco.
Tesco considered the matter and pointed to the Introducers terms and conditions. It 
concluded that it hadnt done anything wrong considering Mrs Cs dispute with the 
Introducer. But it did conclude that it could have provided better customer service. So it says 
it provided Mrs C with £50 compensation for this. But Mrs C remained unhappy, so she 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Tesco didnt have to do anymore. And Mrs C remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C used her Tesco credit card to pay the Introducer for the flights. This meant that if 
certain criteria are met Tesco can have certain responsibilities to Mrs C which arise from the 
relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In 
summary, in certain circumstances, Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mrs C to hold 
Tesco liable for breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the 
agreement made. In essence Tesco can be held responsible for a like claim against the 
Introducer.
Also Mrs Cs Tesco credit card is part of a card scheme which is operated by another 
company. And this scheme has rules which includes giving Tesco a route for card 
transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as The Introducer, namely through the 
Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers and the ultimate decision maker on 
such chargebacks is the scheme itself and not Tesco. So it is possible that Tesco could take 
the chargeback as far as possible and Mrs C still not be successful. I should also add at this 
juncture that this decision is solely about Tesco and whether it did what it should have and 
whether it treated Mrs C fairly. This decision isnt about airlines or The Introducer, which 
arent within this Services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this 
distinction is clear.
could Tesco challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mrs C doesnt dispute that she used her Tesco credit card here. Nor does she dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Tesco couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mrs C didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
Tesco is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Tesco did not raise a chargeback here. It says it considered the matter and noted that Mrs C 
accepts she didnt try to catch the first flight. And it points to the terms and conditions of the 
flight tickets. In essence these say that if the first flight isnt taken then any subsequent 
flights will be cancelled. So Tesco says it didnt raise a chargeback because it felt that such 
a chargeback would not have a reasonable prospect of success. Ive looked at The 
Introducers terms and conditions and I can see that on those and indeed on the booking 
confirmation Mrs C received that it is made clear that subsequent flights would be cancelled 
if the first flight isnt boarded. I can also see that Mrs C has provided a text message 
conversation with the introducer in which the introducer confirms that the subsequent tickets 
have been cancelled. The booking confirmation also makes clear that the introducer is only 
responsible for making the bookings and if travellers wish to change or cancel flights they 
have to do this directly with the airlines where permitted.
So having considered what happened here and I think it likely that had Tesco raised a 
chargeback, it would have been ultimately unsuccessful. So I can see why it considered that 
the chargeback did not have a reasonable prospect of success. So I dont think Mrs C has 
lost out because of what Tesco did.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here, there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mrs Cs claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. Im not persuaded I need to make a finding at this point because for 
other reasons I have decided that Tesco doesnt need to do anymore in relation to this 
complaint. 
For Tesco to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that the 
Introducer either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Mrs C 
which was untrue and that led to loss.
Ive considered the first flight and I can see that it took place. I can also see that the booking 
confirmation and terms and conditions make clear that the passenger is responsible for 
ensuring they are fit to fly. Not the introducer. And I can appreciate Mrs Cs integrity in not 
trying to fly when knowing she was covid-positive. However considering the terms and 
conditions that Mrs C agreed to I can see it wasnt the introducers responsibility that Mrs C 
didnt fly. And I can see it did what the terms said it would in cancelling the subsequent 
flights if the first flight wasnt boarded.It would be unfair on Tesco to have to refund these flights in these circumstances as it 
doesnt have responsibility for the restrictions in place because neither did the Introducer. I 
appreciate the reasons why Mrs C didnt travel, and I appreciate my decision means shes 
lost out. But Im not persuaded Tesco has treated Mrs C unfairly in its consideration of Mrs 
Cs dispute with the Introducer. 
Mrs C says the Introducer shouldnt have cancelled the subsequent flights because she was 
soon testing negative for covid and could have made use of the return flights. But I dont 
think this shows that Tesco did anything wrong. The Introducer did what was agreed by 
cancelling the subsequent flights. And although Mrs C says she was soon testing negative, 
she didnt know that at the point the first flight flew. And although Mrs C says she could have 
arranged other flights that doesnt mean the Introducer did anything wrong by following the 
terms and conditions. And therefore neither has Tesco.
Mrs C also says that introducers take advantage. Im not persuaded this happened here. It 
has simply followed the agreement with regard to these specific tickets. And I think its fair to 
say there are wide variety of ticket types and that they have differing levels of flexibility and 
refundability. But taking everything into account Im not persuaded Tesco has done anything 
wrong here in its consideration of the matter.
I appreciate that this isnt a decision which Mrs C wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mrs Cs avenues for recouping the remaining cost of the flights will be 
significantly limited. But this does not mean that Tesco has done anything wrong in dealing 
with the issues arising from this transaction. Or that it should refund her.
Ive considered the customer service Tesco provided. I think the payment of £50 was 
reasonable in the circumstances. So all in all having considered the matter and everything 
Mrs C has said, Im not persuaded Tesco has treated Mrs C unfairly. So I dont think Tesco 
has done anything else wrong here which requires further action. And as a consequence Ive 
decided that Mrs Cs complaint shouldnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman