DRN-1314541
The complaint
Ms M complains about how Axa Insurance UK Plc have handled a claim she made on her 
motor insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Axa, this includes their agents.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a very brief overview here. Ms M was involved in a car accident that took place in a car park. 
She ultimately made a claim to Axa who provided her motor insurance.
Ms Ms car was taken to a garage. Having had the car for a period of time the garage said 
that they thought Ms Ms car was uneconomical to repair (a total loss). Ms M was unhappy 
and complained. Axa agreed to have another garage look at her car. At this second garage, 
repairs were authorised and completed and Ms M paid her £200 policy excess. 
Ms M is unhappy with the service she received and the amount of time she was without her 
car. She also doesnt think Axa did enough to resolve the issue of liability for the accident 
with the third party, an issue that was still outstanding. Axa accepted that the service theyd 
provided hadnt met the standards they usually aim for. So they offered a total of £225 
compensation for the impact this had on Ms M. 
Ms M didnt accept this and referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators 
thought the compensation Axa had already offered was fair and didnt recommend that they 
needed to do more. As she still disagrees, Ms M has asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. Let me 
explain why. 
Ms Ms policy makes clear that it is her responsibility to pay the first £200 of any claim. So I 
dont think Axa were wrong to insist on this. And this is the case irrespective of fault in a 
claim. A policy excess is common across many types of insurance and I dont think this is 
unfair. 
Its accepted by both parties that the service Axa provided wasnt of a good standard in the 
circumstances of this complaint. This includes (but isnt limited to) the service from the initial 
garage, the confusion as to whether or not the claim would be treated as a total loss and the 
frequency with which Axa chased the third party insurer in relation to their position on 
liability. I can see that Axa did periodically chase the third party insurer  but their response 
to Ms Ms complaint accepted they could have done more. So all that remains to be decided is whether the £225 Axa have already offered is fair 
compensation. I appreciate the whole incident has had quite an impact on Ms M and Ive 
thought about all shes said. But being involved in an accident will sadly always involve a 
level of stress and inconvenience. And I cant fairly hold Axa responsible for all of this  they 
arent responsible for the accident occurring in the first place or all of the delays involved.
Having carefully thought about all the circumstances, I think the £225 Axa have already 
offered is fair. This isnt an insignificant or nominal amount of compensation. So Im not 
going to tell them that this needs to be increased or that they have to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. If this amount hasnt already been paid to Ms M, she should contact 
Axa to arrange this.
I understand that Ms M is unhappy with a lack of recent updates from Axa. This decision 
refers to events up until Axa responded to Ms Ms complaint in October 2019. If Ms M is 
unhappy with things since that date, this is something she should take up with Axa in the first 
instance. It would be inappropriate for me to comment when Axa havent had the opportunity 
to address any concerns Ms M may have first.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman