DRN-2274703
The complaint
Mr S complains about excess mileage charges in relation to a car hired to him under a hire 
agreement with Raedex Consortium Limited trading as Wheels4Sure (W4S).
What happened
In January 2018 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with W4S.
He raised a complaint in February 2020 I relation to excess mileage charges. He said his 
contract stated that his annual mileage limit was 15,000 but the invoice hed received was 
calculated based on a mileage allowance of 8000. He also said his contact stated that W4S 
should contact him at the end of each hire year to agree excess mileage charges, but this 
didnt happen, and hed been left with a large bill. Mr S was also unhappy because his 
contract states that hes responsible for road tax, but hes been charged for this by W4S.
In response, W4S said that the hire agreement stated an annual mileage allowance of 8000 
miles. It acknowledged that the terms and conditions referred to 15,000 miles and said this 
was an error. In relation to road fund licence, W4S said the registration documents were in 
its name so it instructed DVLA to issue a tax disc and passed these costs on to Mr S.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although the terms and conditions 
said the annual mileage allowance was 15,000, it was clear this was an error because the 
other document stated that it was 8000 miles. The investigator agreed that W4S shouldve 
notified Mr s of any excess mileage charges at the ed of each hire year but said Mr S should 
have been aware that he had exceeded the annual mileage in the first year because his 
mileage at the service in November 2018 was 13,221, which exceeded the limit of 8000. The 
investigator said W4S had acted fairly by agreeing a payment plan with Mr S in January 
2020 so he could spread out the excess mileage charges. In relation to road tax, the 
investigator said the agreement made it clear that Mr S would have to pay this annually.
Mr S didnt agree. He said when he was told about the excess mileage charges, he asked 
W4S to confirm what his allowance was so he could make a decision whether to keep the 
car or end the agreement. He says W4S told him the allowance was 15,000 and it was on 
the basis of that information that he kept the car. He said if hed been told the mileage 
allowance was lower, he wouldve handed the car back. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the agreement, the customer declaration ad the pre contract information. All of 
these documents say that the annual mileage allowance is 80000. I can see that the terms 
and conditions say 15,000 miles, but Im satisfied that this is an error.
I can see that Mr S had covered 13,221 miles by the time the car was serviced in November 
2018. Following the service, W4S emailed Mr S and explained that he could increase his 
mileage limit to 16,000 per annum. In March 2019 Mr S agreed an amendment to his 
agreement and increased the annual mileage to 16,000 miles.
I agree that the terms and conditions say that Mr S should be notified of excess mileage 
charges at the end of each hire year. I appreciate that hasnt notified in January 2019 (the 
end of the first year). However, I think Mr S ought reasonably to have known that he 
wouldve incurred excess mileage charges in the first year because he was over mileage 
when the car was serviced in November 2018.
Mr Ss complaint is that by not charging him excess mileage at the end of the first hire year, 
W4S caused him to have a large bill in 2020. This is correct. However, I can see that W4S 
agreed a payment plan with Mr S so he could pay the excess mileage charges for the last 
two hire years over a period of time. I think this was a fair and reasonable way to help 
reduce the impact of the large bill.
Mr S has said that when he asked W4S what his mileage allowance was in April 2020, it told 
him it was 15,000. He says he kept the car based on this information. I dont think W4S has 
made a error her. Mr S agreed to increase the mileage allowance in March 2019. I cant see 
that it was ever reduced back to 8000. So, Mr Ss complaint about this is based on a 
misunderstanding of the mileage allowance.
In relation to road tax, the terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr S is 
responsible for this and that he has to pay for it annually. So, I dont think W4S has made an 
error in charging Mr S for this. I can see that W4S agreed a payment plan for the road tax to 
help Mr S spread the cost of what would otherwise have been a one-off payment. I think 
W4S acted fairly here.
Taking all the available information into account, I cant say W4S has done anything wrong I 
relation to excess mileage charges or road tax charges. So I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman