DRN-4216692
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P say Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim they made 
on their motor insurance policy  and that it took far too long to do so.
What happened
In July 2021 Mrs P told Haven that her car was left in a car park near to a business run by 
her and Mr P. She said Mr P drove her home in his car, but when they returned a few hours 
later, the car was gone. By then the police had found it a short distance away, burnt out.
The police told Haven they had concerns about the reported theft and that they were 
carrying out enquiries. In October 2021 they said Haven could now request a police report 
and that it should also look at the CCTV footage they had reviewed. The police report was 
sent to Haven in mid-January 2022 and the CCTV footage arrived in March 2022.
Haven was concerned about the conflicting details given to it and to the police by Mr P and 
Mrs P - and also by the CCTV footage. In April 2022 it put queries to them about the time the 
car was parked (and by whom) plus questions about the whereabouts of the cars key on the 
night of the theft. It wasnt satisfied with their response, including Mrs Ps insistence that 
shed handed the key over to the police at the time, when the police were sure she didnt. 
In May 2022 Haven said it wouldnt be dealing with the claim and that it intended to avoid the 
policy (to treat it as though it had never existed) in line with its terms and conditions, as it 
thought the details given to it by Mr P and Mrs P werent accurate. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. She thought Haven had acted 
reasonably, given all the discrepancies Haven and the police had noted. She thought the 
time Haven had taken to reach a decision was largely due to the wait for the police report 
and the CCTV footage. As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence on the file shows that the account of events recorded by the police differs from 
that recorded by Haven in significant respects - for example, the time the car was left in the 
car park. Mrs P thinks the police records are wrong. But the police spoke to Mrs P and Mr P 
more than once about the theft. And as its their professional duty to make accurate notes of 
their discussions, I think its more likely that not that the records are accurate. 
Even if there was a mistake in the polices records, the CCTV footage doesnt support either 
the time the police say Mr and Mrs P initially said the car was left, or the time they told 
Haven theyd parked it initially. It seems the car was taken immediately after it was parked -  
and set alight nearby very quickly after that. Those circumstances are very unusual, as 
thieves usually make good use of a stolen car before destroying it. So I can see why that 
raised a further concern about the theft.   
Mrs P told us that her account of times and events hadnt changed, but I dont think thats 
borne out by the available evidence. There were discrepancies about who parked the car, 
when, and whether Mrs P was in the car park around that time. There was a further issue 
with the cars key and a query about it having been driven away using a key. In the light of 
the unexplained queries, the content of the police report, and the CCTV footage, I think it 
was reasonable for Haven to decide that Mrs P and Mr Ps account of events wasnt reliable. 
So I also think it was reasonable for it not to deal with the claim and to avoid the policy. 
It took a long time for Haven to issue its decision, but I think it was reasonable for it to wait 
for the police report and the CCTV footage. I can see from the file that Haven chased the 
police for the information and told them it thought their delays were unreasonable. I think 
Haven could probably have issued its decision a little earlier than it did, but insurers normally 
take great care when dealing with claims they think may be fraudulent. I think thats 
reasonable, given the potential consequences for consumers. And I dont think knowing the 
outcome slightly earlier would have made a difference to Mr and Mrs Ps situation. 
Mr P and Mrs P have told us they developed health problems after starting to go through the 
claims process and that theyve faced financial problems, as well as great inconvenience. 
Im very sorry to hear about the difficulties theyre continuing to experience. But as I dont 
think Haven acted unreasonably, I cant uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman