DRN-3892904
The complaint
Mr A, a sole trader, is unhappy with the amount that Lloyds Bank PLC demanded from him 
having terminated his Bounce Back Loan (BBL) agreement. Mr A is also unhappy that 
Lloyds passed his account to a third-party debt recovery agency (DRA).
What happened
Mr A successfully applied to Lloyds for a £50,000 BBL, having self-declared to Lloyds that 
his business had an annual turnover of £200,000. But, when Lloyds later asked Mr A to 
verify the business turnover hed declared in his BBL application, Mr A was unable to do so 
to Lloyds satisfaction. This ultimately led to Lloyds terminating the BBL agreement and 
closing Mr As business current account (BCA). 
When Lloyds closed Mr As accounts, approximately £26,000 of the BBL funds remained in 
the BCA. Lloyds used this £26,000 to offset the amount owed by Mr A on the BBL, which 
meant approximately £24,000 remained outstanding for Mr A to pay. But when Lloyds wrote 
to Mr A about the BBL, they failed to take account of the £26,000 that theyd offset, and 
formally demanded £50,000 from Mr A. Mr A wasnt happy about this, and he also wasnt 
happy that Lloyds had passed the outstanding balance to a DRA. So, he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr As complaint. They didnt feel theyd acted unfairly in how theyd 
managed the situation, but they did acknowledge that they hadnt responded to Mr As 
complaint in as timely manner as they should have done. Lloyds apologised for this and 
made a payment of £75 to Mr A as compensation for any trouble or upset their late response 
to his complaint may have caused. Mr A wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Lloyds were entitled to 
appoint the DRA as they had done and noted that the amount that remained outstanding on 
the BBL following the offsetting of the £26,000 had been explained to Mr A by the DRA. Mr A 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A hasnt complained here about the fact that Lloyds made the decision to close his 
accounts as they did. But, for the sake of completeness, Ill briefly confirm that I dont feel 
Lloyds have acted unfairly or unreasonably by doing so. 
This is because Im satisfied it was fair for Lloyds to ask Mr A to verify the business turnover 
hed self-declared and which entitled Mr A to receive a BBL at the amount that he did. And 
Im also satisfied that when Mr A didnt then verify the business turnover as requested, that it 
was then reasonable for Lloyds to terminate the BBL agreement as they did.
Mr A is unhappy that Lloyds sent him a letter which failed to account for the £26,000 that 
Lloyds had already set off against the outstanding BBL balance from the closed BCA. I can 
appreciate why Mr A would be concerned about this, but it seems clear and obvious to me 
that it was never the case that Lloyds were demanding £50,000 from Mr A in addition to the 
£26,000 held in the closed BCA. 
This was confirmed to Mr A by the DRA. And, if such an explanation hadnt been provided, I 
feel this point could have been resolved by Mr A simply pointing out to Lloyds that they held 
£26,000 of the amount they were demanding from him already. As such, I dont feel that any 
form of compensation or further action is merited in regard to this point, and Im satisfied that 
the issue was fairly resolved by the confirmation of the correct information to Mr A.
Mr A is also unhappy that Lloyds have appointed a DRA, and hes expressed his desire to 
deal with Lloyds directly regarding the repayment of the outstanding BBL balance. However, 
Im satisfied that Lloyds were entitled to appoint the DRA as they have done, and that Lloyds 
entitlement to do so fairly supersedes any wishes that Mr A may have in this respect.
Finally, Mr A is unhappy with how Lloyds have handled the complaint he brought to them 
about these issues. However, as per the rules by which this service must abide  which can 
be found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook  this service is only able to consider complaints about specified 
activities, of which complaint handling isnt one. This means that this aspect of Mr As 
complaint isnt one that its within the remit of this service to consider.  
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any 
further action here. This is because Im satisfied that the issue of how much Mr A owed on 
the BBL was fairly resolved by the provision of the correct information to him, and because 
Im also satisfied that Lloyds were entitled to appoint the DRA as they did. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr A was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision here that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman