DRN-3366114
The complaint
Ms K complains about the lack of care and information provided by Ecology Building Society
when she closed an account.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Ms K had a Regular Savings Account (RSA) with Ecology. Ms K also had a Foundation 
cash ISA. On 4 February 2021 Ecology wrote to Ms K and said the Foundation cash ISA 
had been closed to new subscriptions from 1 April 2021. Ecology said all deposits would 
need to be made by that date.
Ms K contacted Ecology the following week and asked it to confirm rate and withdrawal 
changes to her accounts. Ecology responded to say the RSA interest rate was reducing to 
0.8% from 2 March 2021 but the Foundation cash ISAs rate was not changing. Ms K later 
asked to transfer the funds held in her RSA to the Foundation cash ISA as it was paying a 
higher rate of interest.
On 2 March 2021 Ecology emailed Ms K and explained that the RSA account terms 
required her to maintain a minimum balance of £25. Ms K responded and told Ecology to 
close the RSA.
On 6 May 2021 Ecology received funds intended for Ms Ks Foundation cash ISA. The 
payment was returned to the sending bank the following day.
On 10 May 2021 Ms K spoke with Ecology and asked why her Foundation cash ISA was no 
longer available for deposits. Ms K was also told that she couldnt open a new RSA. 
Ecology advised the account terms say customers have to wait 12 months from the date of 
closure before opening a new RSA.
Ms K complained and said she wouldnt have closed her RSA if shed been told she would 
have to wait a year to open another. Ecology didnt uphold Ms Ks complaint. It said no 
error had been made by closing the Foundation cash ISA to new deposits and that Ms K 
would be eligible to apply for a new RSA in March 2022.
Ms K referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Ms K said 
she wouldnt have closed the RSA if Ecology had made it clear she couldnt open a new 
one for 12 months. The investigator said Ecology had closed the Foundation cash ISA to 
new deposits in line with the account terms and within a reasonable timeframe. The 
investigator didnt uphold Ms Ks complaint. Ms K didnt accept the investigators view so 
her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken the step of issuing a 
provisional decision in this case because Ive reached my view of Ms Ks complaint for 
different reasons to the investigator. I want to give both parties a chance to respond further 
before I make my final decision.
As Ms K said in her response to the investigators findings, she had two accounts with 
Ecology. The RSA and the Foundation cash ISA. In March 2021 Ms K asked Ecology to 
transfer her funds from the RSA to the Foundation cash ISA (following a rate reduction) as 
it was receiving a higher rate of interest. Im satisfied Ecology was following Ms Ks 
instructions when it transferred her funds over.
But before Ecology completed the transfer it sent Ms K an email that reminded her there 
was a requirement to maintain a minimum balance in the RSA. At that point Ms K emailed 
back and confirmed she wanted Ecology to close the account. I understand Ms K feels 
Ecology shouldve specifically told her she couldnt open another RSA during the following 
12 months. But Ecology says its approach forms part of the RSA terms and conditions 
which Ms K accepted when she opened the RSA. I think thats a reasonable point.
Ive considered whether I think Ecology shouldve specifically made the point that if Ms K 
closed her RSA she wouldnt be able to open another for 12 months. Im sorry to 
disappoint Ms K, but I havent been persuaded Ecology treated her unfairly by failing to 
make that specific point. Ultimately Ms K had transferred her funds out of the RSA which 
meant it was operating with a balance below the minimum limit. Ms K had transferred her 
funds on the basis of receiving a better interest rate. In my view, it appeared to Ecology 
that Ms K no longer needed or wanted the RSA. And Im satisfied it was acting in line with 
her instructions when it took steps to close it.
As Ecology said, the earliest point Ms K can open a new RSA is 3 March 2022  in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. Im sorry to disappoint Ms K but as Im 
satisfied Ecology dealt with her complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else.
I invited both parties to respond with any new comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Ms K responded and said we hadnt correctly 
understood her complaint and referred us to her original complaint submissions. We went 
back to Ms K several times to try and get a clearer understanding of her case and were 
referred back to her original complaint submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recently took the step of asking our investigator to forward my comments to Ms K. I 
explained I had read and reviewed everything Ms K had sent to date and my provisional 
decision set out my conclusions based on what shed told us. I asked Ms K to clarify what 
points were misunderstood but havent received new details or information. Without further 
information I havent been able to change my view of Ms Ks case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms K but based on the complaint she asked us to consider and the 
information provided by both her and Ecology, I remain of the view that it dealt with her case 
fairly, for the same reasons I reached in my provisional decision. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman