DRN-3040661
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) hasnt fairly compensated him, or 
explained how it has arrived at the amount, of compensation for mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Briefly:
Mr B complained to HSBC that hed been mis-sold PPI on a loan. When he hadnt heard 
back from HSBC he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in October 
2019.
In March 2020 HSBC said it was willing to uphold Mr Bs complaint and offer him 
compensation on two PPI policies he took out with two loans.
In June 2020 HSBC hadnt yet made payment to Mr B  so we asked HSBC to make 
payment as soon as possible because Mr B was experiencing some financial difficulties.
When HSBC then sent Mr B written confirmation of the offer of compensation later in June 
2020, Mr B said that because it didnt include an explanation of how the compensation had 
been arrived at he wasnt prepared to sign and return the acceptance form. Mr B asked an 
adjudicator to review things.
The adjudicator said that they thought HSBC had calculated Mr Bs compensation fairly by 
using our recognised approach to PPI redress. But they thought Mr B had suffered distress 
and inconvenience by the delay in getting details of the offer to him  particularly given that 
theyd told HSBC of the urgency in paying Mr B his compensation at the beginning of June 
2020. As a result they recommended HSBC should pay Mr B an additional amount of £250 
as well as bring its offer of compensation up to date  i.e. pay 8% simple interest on the 
refund to the date of payment.
HSBC said it agreed with the adjudicators conclusions and recommendation for settlement. 
But Mr B disagrees and has asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In 
summary Mr B appears to suggest that is concerned that assumptions have been made in 
reaching the outcome of his complaint and that not all of the facts have been established. Mr 
B has also made comments about the level of service he has received from the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in dealing with his complaint.
Because the matter couldnt be resolved informally the complaint comes to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided that the adjudicator has reached a fair conclusion to this 
complaint and my reasons are set out below.
But before I give my reasons, I would like to clarify two important things for Mr B: firstly that 
any concerns about the level of service he has received from the Financial Ombudsman 
Service whilst we have dealt with his complaint is a distinct and separate matter from his 
complaint about whether the level of PPI compensation HSBC has offered him is fair. My 
decision only answers Mr Bs complaint about HSBC  any ongoing service-related issues 
will be addressed under separate cover. And secondly Id like to assure Mr B that Im 
satisfied I have the necessary information to reach a fair and reasonable decision on his 
complaint about HSBC.
Turning to HSBCs offer of compensation  the principle of putting things right in a PPI 
complaint is to put a consumer back in the position they would have been in had they not 
taken out the policy in the first place. Effectively this involves working out and paying the 
difference between what they paid each month and what they would have paid without PPI. 
Compensatory interest should then be added to the extra amount paid from when it was paid 
until they get it back.
In Mr Bs case, he took out two single premium PPI policies (this is where the premium is 
added to the loan upfront where it attracts interest of the term of the loan) on two separate 
albeit linked loans. The reason they are linked is because Mr B repaid his first loan early by 
refinancing it with a second loan. Mr B also took out a third loan refinancing the second one. 
But although he didnt take out PPI with this loan it is still relevant.
Because Mr B repaid his two loans early his compensation also needs to take into account 
that an unpaid portion of PPI finds its way into each of the subsequent loans  including the 
third loan.
HSBC has provided us with its calculations and Ive looked at these carefully. And while Im 
not going to set out all of the figures here in detail (I can see the adjudicator provided Mr B 
with some of the detail) Im satisfied HSBC has calculated Mr Bs compensation fairly and in 
line with our approach to PPI redress. HSBC has taken into account the re-financing issue I 
highlighted above and it has added compensatory interest to reflect that Mr B has been out 
of pocket because he paid more for his loans than he would otherwise have done.
But like the adjudicator, I think it took HSBC longer than it should fairly and reasonably have 
done to provide Mr B with written confirmation of its offer of compensation and that this 
together with a lack of clarity about the offer ultimately had an impact on him given his 
particular circumstances.
Im mindful that part of the reason for the delay in issuing Mr B with written confirmation of 
the offer can likely be contributed to the Covid pandemic and the operational difficulties 
HSBC like all businesses faced and had to overcome. But Im not persuaded this reasonably 
explains why HSBCs letter to Mr B dated 15 May 2020 wasnt printed until three weeks later 
and doesnt appear to have been sent until sometime after that  Mr B said he still hadnt 
received a hard copy by the middle of June. The adjudicator told HSBC at the beginning of 
June 2020 that Mr B was facing some financial difficulty and that payment was important to 
him  so I would have expected HSBC to have acted on that information and dealt with 
things more promptly than it did.I can also see that HSBCs offer letter didnt provide much by way of detail about the offer 
and Mr B has said because of this he was reluctant to accept it. And while I wouldnt 
reasonably expect HSBC to provide detailed calculations as a matter of course, it wasnt 
perhaps helpful given Mr Bs circumstances that the paperwork he was asked to sign said 
that he had to accept the offer in full and final settlement  it didnt make it clear that he 
could still query the amount if he wasnt happy with it despite receiving payment in the 
interim. 
Because of these issues I think Mr B has suffered distress and inconvenience in this case 
and that HSBC should pay Mr B and amount of £250. In the circumstances I consider this is 
fair.
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mr B his PPI compensation as it has offered to do. And in doing so it 
should bring the offer up to date to reflect compensatory interest to the date of payment.
HSBC should pay Mr B £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to him by 
HSBCs actions.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided HSBC Bank UK Plc has calculated Mr Bs PPI 
compensation correctly and it represents fair compensation. HSBC Bank UK Plc should 
make payment to Mr B bringing the offer up to date as Ive reflected above.
HSBC should also pay Mr B an additional amount of £250. I make no other award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman