DRN-3567035
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the decision by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to terminate 
her income protection claim and cancel her cover.
What happened
Mrs M is covered by her employers income protection scheme, the aim of which is to pay 
an income in the event she cant work because of illness or injury.
In 2014, Mrs M stopped work after an accident. A claim was submitted to Aviva, which 
was accepted.
In 2020, Aviva terminated Mrs Ms claim and cancelled her cover, as it thought she 
was carrying out another occupation and had withheld information from it. Unhappy 
with this, Mrs M brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought, based on 
the available evidence, that Avivas actions had been reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 June 2022. Heres what I said:
The scheme terms say that cover may be terminated if an employee has failed in their 
duty of utmost good faith by supplying misleading, incorrect or incomplete information to 
Aviva.
When the claim was reviewed in 2015 and 2016, Mrs M told Aviva she wasnt receiving 
an income and that she hadnt undertaken paid or unpaid work/an alternative occupation. 
Aviva thinks that Mrs M was deliberately withholding information about her work activities 
by saying this. I disagree, and Ill explain why.
Mrs M visited car boot sales and local auctions, and sold items that shed purchased. 
However, Mrs M says she saw this as a hobby rather than work and that she didnt seek 
to make an income from this. Mrs M didnt keep records of her sales, and has explained 
that she interpreted income that Aviva asked about as being income that was taxable.
Mrs M has since found out that only gross trading income up to £1,000 is exempt from 
tax. Whilst Aviva was looking into Mrs Ms selling activities, she arranged for an 
accountant to look at her historical financial information. I understand that between 
2015/16 and 2018/19, Mrs Ms gross trading income did exceed £1,000, though her 
gross profit was much lower. The only time her gross profit exceeded £500 was in 
2018/19.
Mrs Ms accountant reviewed her bank statements and online payments account 
statement, and believed that the transactions were that of a hobby rather than a 
business. They confirmed a loss had been made for each of the years (taking into 
account Mrs Ms allowable expenses).
Given that Mrs M viewed her selling activities as a hobby rather than work, and taking into 
account the low amount of profit she was making, I can understand why she didnt realise 
she ought to have declared her selling activities to Aviva at the 2015 and 2016 reviews. 
That doesnt mean that she deliberately tried to mislead Aviva.
Crucially, during Avivas review in 2018, Mrs M did tell Aviva about her selling activities. 
First in the review form, and then she provided further details, via her employer, in 
December 2018. Her selling activities had increased by that point, and she had hired a 
glass cabinet in a local antique centre from which she sold items. Aviva then arranged for 
Mrs M to see a nurse, and she was open about her selling activities to the nurse.
Aviva has referred to some discrepancies in Mrs Ms explanations. For example, in 2019 
she told Avivas representative she only sold clothes on a social media selling site, but 
Aviva found posts from 2017 and 2018 where shed sold other items on that site. 
However, these were only a few items, and this was some time before Mrs M said she 
only sold clothes on that site. So I dont think this is enough to say that Mrs M deliberately 
gave Aviva misleading, incorrect or incomplete information - shed already made Aviva 
aware that she was buying and selling items, including online.
I do understand why Aviva was concerned about Mrs Ms buying and selling activities, 
and I think it was reasonable for Aviva to look into this in more detail. However, taking all 
the evidence into account, I dont agree with Aviva that Mrs M deliberately tried to 
mislead it about her activities, and so I dont think Aviva acted fairly by terminating 
Mrs Ms cover. I therefore intend to require it to reinstate her cover under the scheme.
Ive also considered Avivas decision to terminate Mrs Ms claim because it thinks she 
was carrying out another occupation.
The scheme terms and conditions define incapacity as:
a member is incapacitated, by reason of illness or injury, when the insurer is satisfied 
that the employee is incapable of performing the material and substantial duties of his 
or her own occupation and is not following any other occupation.
Aviva believes that Mrs M was working as a trader. Her Majestys Revenue and Customs 
(HMRC) says that someone is likely a trader if they sell items on a regular basis, or sell a 
similar item on more than one occasion over a period of a year. I think Mrs M would fit 
this description.Whilst I accept that Mrs M would be considered a trader for HMRC 
purposes, that alone doesnt necessarily mean that this was her occupation. The policy 
doesnt define whats meant by occupation. Though another policy provided by Aviva 
defines occupation as work undertaken for profit, pay or reward. I think thats a 
reasonable description.
Aviva thought Mrs M was selling items in order to make a profit. Whilst I appreciate that 
Mrs M wasnt trying to make a regular income from her selling activities, I think its 
reasonable to say she was trying to make a profit (even if she wasnt always 
successful). If Mrs M had only sold items occasionally, I mightve been inclined to agree 
with her that it was a hobby. But given how regularly she was selling items, Im 
persuaded that she was carrying out another occupation.
However, the policy offers proportionate benefit. It says that if an incapacitated 
member returns to work but earns a lower wage, then the benefit will be reduced.
Weve asked Aviva about this. It makes the point that since this is a group scheme, proportionate benefit could only be paid in this way if the policyholder (Mrs Ms 
employer) allowed her to have the alternative occupation and continued to keep her on 
their payroll.
As I understand it, Mrs Ms employer is aware of her buying and selling activities and has 
continued to keep her on the payroll. It therefore seems to me that a reasonable way 
forward would be for Aviva to reinstate the claim and pay proportionate benefit due to 
Mrs M (taking into account any profit shes made from her buying and selling activities).
Going forward, Aviva/Mrs M may wish to establish with the policyholder that they remain 
happy for Mrs M to continue with her other occupation. If not, then it would be up to Mrs M 
to decide if she wishes to continue with her buying and selling activities.
Finally, Mrs M has raised concerns that Aviva hasnt considered her claim in 
accordance with the correct terms and conditions. However, the terms that apply to the 
claim are those that were in existence when Mrs M initially stopped work, so Im 
satisfied that Aviva has used the correct terms when assessing the claim.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision.
Aviva responded and made the following points:
- It says its clear that Mrs M did keep records of her previous sales, as she was 
able to provide her accountant with information from 2015.
- It says it took into account Mrs Ms medical condition and made attempts to 
clarify the extent of her activities by asking her to complete daily activity logs. It 
says this was a further opportunity for her to provide details as to the extent of 
her activities, yet she failed to do this.
- It says Mrs M only told Aviva that she bought and sold items online when asked 
by its agent, and so does not think this is the same as providing the information 
upfront. 
- It remains of the view that it was right to remove Mrs M from cover under the 
scheme.
Mrs Ms representative responded to confirm that Mrs M accepted my provisional 
decision. He asked if Mrs M could see the scheme terms and conditions. He also 
suggested that when calculating proportionate benefit, Aviva should look at net taxable 
profit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view expressed in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Aviva says that Mrs M was able to provide her accountant with information of her sales going 
back to 2015. I accept this. But the majority of the information in 2015 and 2016 related to 
online sales, and so it wouldve been relatively easily for Mrs M to go back and find out that 
information. The point I was making in my provisional decision was that Mrs M says she 
didnt keep track of the sales in 2015 and 2016 (when the claim was reviewed and she told Aviva she wasnt working) as she didnt consider herself to be running a business.  
Mrs M did keep a record of sales she had made from fairs in 2017/2018, though as I said in 
my provisional decision, her selling activity had increased by that point and she told Aviva 
about this in 2018.
Aviva has referred to daily activity logs that it asked Mrs M to complete. It has previously told 
this service that no buying or selling details were recorded on those logs. Though as far as 
Im aware, we dont know that Mrs M did do any buying or selling activities on those days. So 
I cant say that Mrs M gave Aviva incorrect information in those daily logs.
Aviva says that Mrs M only told it that she bought and sold items online when she was asked 
by its agent. I note that Mrs M had voluntarily told Aviva before this that she enjoyed visiting 
boot fairs and local auctions and purchased items to sell. She also told it she rented a small 
cabinet in a local antique shop where she sold items, and that she often attended the shop 
to change the items. At that time, she didnt know how interested Aviva was in her buying 
and selling activities. It seems to me that Mrs M was telling Aviva about the physical aspect 
of what she perceived to be her hobby  in other words, going out to the fairs and auctions, 
and visiting her glass cabinet. I dont think that means that she was deliberately trying to 
conceal that she bought and sold items online as well.  
Overall, whilst its clear that Aviva feels strongly about this, Im not persuaded that theres 
sufficient information for me to conclude that Mrs M deliberately gave Aviva misleading or 
wrong information. I therefore remain satisfied it would be appropriate for Aviva to reinstate 
the claim.
Mrs Ms representative said that Mrs M would like to see a copy of the policy terms and 
conditions. I note that our investigator previously provided this document to Mrs M. Im 
satisfied she has been provided with the correct policy terms that apply to her claim, and I 
dont require Aviva to share any later scheme terms.
Mrs Ms representative has also made a suggestion on how Aviva should calculate 
proportionate benefit. I would expect Aviva to work this out based on the policy terms and 
conditions. If theres any dispute about this, Mrs M would need to raise this with Aviva as a 
new complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to reinstate the claim and pay backdated proportionate benefit in line with the 
schemes terms and conditions.
Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date each 
payment was due to the date of settlement.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-RyanOmbudsman