DRN-3224148
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc closed his account and recorded a marker with a 
fraud prevention agency after he received a payment in to his account. He is also unhappy 
Santander have withheld these funds from him.
  
What happened
Mr A held a current account with Santander. In November 2019 he received a payment of 
£1,000 in to his account. Several weeks later Santander received word that the funds sent to 
Mr A were the result of a scam. They began to investigate and placed a block on the 
account. They asked Mr A to prove he was entitled to this money.
Mr A provided some details, but this didnt satisfy Santander who took the decision to close 
the account. They allowed Mr A to withdraw his wages, but kept the remaining £548.33, 
pending any indemnities. They also recorded a marker against him with the fraud prevention 
agency CIFAS.
Thinking this was unfair Mr A raised a complaint  asking for the marker to be removed and 
the remaining money returned to him. Santander looked in to what happened but didnt feel 
theyd done anything wrong. They said they had the right to withdraw banking facilities at 
any time, and prior to doing so a thorough investigation had taken place.
Unhappy with this answer Mr A referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked in to what happened, and asked Mr A to explain the money coming in. 
Mr A said that he is paid by his employer in to his Nigerian bank account. To access this 
money he transfers money from his Nigerian account to his friends Nigerian account. His 
friend will then transfer the Sterling equivalent to his Santander account. 
He said on this occasion his friend told him he didnt have the Sterling available to transfer, 
but it would come from another person who Ill call S. Mr A didnt think this would be a 
problem and didnt suspect anything wrong with the transfer. 
After Santander asked Mr A about the transaction, he tried to get information from S, but 
was unsuccessful in getting them to give him anything. But he had recorded a call where 
hed spoken to them. He also provided text messages between him and his friend, as well as 
a statement from his Nigerian bank account.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. They felt that it was more likely 
than not Mr A had been an innocent party in this transfer and hadnt known the funds sent 
were suspicious and had received them in good faith. They felt Mr A had lost out because he 
had sent funds on from his Nigerian bank account. And they said Santanders account terms 
didnt allow them to remove funds from the account without prior consent.
On that basis the investigator asked for the CIFAS marker to be removed and the funds in 
the account returned to Mr A. The investigator also suggested Santander pay Mr A £200 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience of having his account closed.
Mr A agreed with this outcome. Santander agreed to remove the CIFAS marker. However 
they did not agree to return the funds to Mr A, or pay compensation. They felt that as the 
funds sent were fraudulent Mr A wasnt entitled to them. They were unsure why theyd need 
to make provision of this in their terms, as it would be common sense to remove funds that 
they werent entitled to. They also said they felt they werent wrong to record the marker with 
CIFAS initially, so didnt think the compensation was warranted.
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide. Since the 
investigator gave their opinion the funds in question have been returned to the sender.
Having reviewed the case I agreed with the outcome the investigator had reached, but for 
different reasons. In December 2021 I issued my provisional decision, which said the 
following:
The investigator on this case wrote a detailed opinion setting out the timeline and 
considerations of this case, so I dont intend to repeat these points as they are well known to 
both parties. But I also accept the situation has changed somewhat since then, as Santander 
have returned the funds to the sender. So, Ive also taken in to account Santanders own 
terms and conditions, the relevant industry guidance and good practice in relation to APP 
scam payments, as well as what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Its not disputed that the money sent to Mr A was a result of a scam. I understand why 
Santander would place restrictions on Mr As account and ask for further information. So, the 
restrictions placed on the account were reasonable. And the terms of Mr As account allow 
them to close the account if it involved in fraud  whether Mr A was aware of this or not. 
Santander havent been unfair in doing this. 
In this case Im satisfied that Mr A was an unwitting party to the scam. I say this as he has 
been able to provide information to show the discussions he had with his friend, and his 
subsequent attempts to get information from S. The statement from his Nigerian bank shows 
he transferred money out to his friend on the same day the funds were received, and the 
value broadly matches the exchange rate of Sterling to Naira at the time. While Mr A does 
transfer some of the money out, he doesnt seem to be in a rush to move it on or spend it, 
which he may do if he was aware of the source.
Overall, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Mr A knew about or was actively involved in 
the fraud. Santander have now accepted this and agreed to remove the CIFAS marker 
against Mr A. 
Before a CIFAS marker is recorded a financial business needs to have carried out sufficient 
checks to satisfy themselves that fraud or financial crime has been committed. Santander 
have commented that they agreed to remove the information on the basis of our services 
investigation. This suggests to me that Santander didnt carry out sufficient checks at the 
point they loaded the CIFAS marker  so Im satisfied it was unfair to apply.
The effect of this is that Mr A had a CIFAS marker against him incorrectly for over a year, 
which will have been incredibly disruptive to his life and will make it incredibly hard to access 
mainstream financial services. Hes also commented on the distress at being labelled a 
fraudster, when this wasnt the case. Its fair then that Santander pay £200 compensation to 
reflect the impact this had on him during this period.  
The payment made to Mr As account came about because of an authorised push payment 
(APP) scam. The APP Voluntary Best Practice Standards produced by UK Finance in 
October 2017 sets out the standards for sending and receiving banks to follow when 
processing a claim for an APP scam.There are several relevant principles here:
The sending bank should notify their customer that because they authorised the 
transaction, the right to the funds is with the recipient.
The receiving bank will need to investigate and establish (to what extent it is able) 
whether the account is fraudulent and if funds remain.
The receiving bank will need to find evidence that the recipient has obtained the fund 
fraudulently.
Following the receiving firms investigation, identified funds should always be 
repatriated back to the sending firm at the risk of the receiving firm subject to various 
exceptions. One of these exceptions is where there is a credible complaint or dispute 
from the recipient of the funds.
So, good industry practice at the time said the receiving bank should investigate whether 
their consumer had received the funds as a party to the fraud. And if they havent, the 
receiving bank is under no obligation to return the funds to the sending banks.
In this case Mr A has a credible dispute, as he wasnt a party to the fraud. And he has 
suffered a loss as hes sent the money from his Nigerian account already. It follows then that 
Santander werent under an obligation to return the money to the senders.
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their consumers instructions and make payments in 
line with the account mandate. And this mandate is generally laid out in the accounts terms 
and conditions. Having reviewed the terms of Mr As account I cant see anything in there 
which would allow them to unilaterally debit the account without prior consent from Mr A. So, 
Im not satisfied Santander had the right to do this.
In this case, I think Santanders actions  although guided by a desire to help a genuine 
victim of fraud  lead to an unfair outcome for Mr A. He has acted in good faith in receiving 
the funds and has suffered a loss himself because of this. He is also a victim of the fraudster 
here. Santander werent under any obligation to return the funds. In any case, Im not 
persuaded they had the contractual right to do so. On that basis it isnt fair to deny him the 
remaining funds in the account.
I said my intention was to direct Santander to do the following:
Ensure they are not recording any markers against Mr A with CIFAS
Refund Mr A the £548.33 that was remaining in the account when it was closed, 
along with 8% simple interest per annum from the date of the block to the date of 
settlement
Pay Mr A £200 in compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience of having 
his details reported to CIFAS incorrectly.
Mr A responded to say he accepted this as an outcome. Santander responded to say the 
only way they would be able to release the funds is if the sending bank retracts their claim.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional decision, which are repeated above 
and form part of this decision. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I remain satisfied that Mr A was an unwitting party to this 
fraud, and so it would be unfair for Santander to record a CIFAS marker against him. This 
has been accepted by the bank. Considering the length of time the CIFAS marker was 
present against him and the difficulty this presented him in accessing banking facilities 
elsewhere I believe a payment of £200 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
However, because his account has received fraudulent funds  albeit unwittingly  the terms 
of his account do allow Santander to restrict the account, and then close it. For the reasons 
Ive explained in the provisional decision, I dont think this was unfair. 
In terms of the money remaining in the account, Ive considered why Santander has returned 
this. And as I mentioned in the provisional decision, I understand why Santander would feel 
this is the right thing to do. 
But I also bear in mind that Mr A has a credible dispute regarding the funds and has acted in 
good faith. Santander havent been able to demonstrate anything to show Mr A was party to 
the fraud. 
Mr A has also demonstrated that hes suffered a loss, in the transfer from his Nigerian bank 
account. As I explained in my provisional decision, this means Santander arent under any 
obligation to return the funds to the sending bank. This isnt affected by whether that bank 
withdraws their claim or not. By denying Mr A the funds that remained in the account 
Santander have in effect ensured hes suffered a double loss  both from his Santander 
account and his Nigerian bank account.
In any case Santander didnt have a contractual right to remove the money from Mr As 
account.
In summary Im satisfied then with the reasoning given in my provisional decision above, and 
I partially uphold Mr As complaint. I think Santander have treated Mr A unfairly when they 
recorded a CIFAS marker against him, and for denying him access to the funds in the 
account. As such I think they should return this money to him, and pay him £200 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience of having his details reported to CIFAS 
incorrectly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partially uphold Mr As complaint and direct Santander UK Plc 
to
Ensure they are not recording any markers against Mr A with CIFAS regarding this 
payment
Refund Mr A the £548.33 that was remaining in the account when it was closed, 
along with 8% simple interest per annum from the date of the account block to the 
date of settlement
Pay Mr A £200 in compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience of having 
his details reported to CIFAS incorrectly
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Ombudsman