DRN-1612636
The complaint
Miss H and Mr R are unhappy AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) turned down a claim Miss 
H made on a private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss H has the benefit of private medical insurance through a group scheme which began on 
1 July 2017. In May 2019 she saw her GP as she was suffering from a migraine which, 
amongst other things, affected her speech and vision. Miss H was referred to a specialist 
and an MRI scan was carried out. This was reported to be normal. The specialist suggested 
some treatment options. 
In June Miss H contacted AXA and made a claim. AXA said as shed suffered from 
migraines for many years this was a pre-existing condition which wouldnt be covered by her 
policy. It reviewed its position on receipt of further information from her GP but this didnt 
change things. It said although Miss H had experienced new symptoms the underlying 
condition related to a migraine. Shed had symptoms of that in the five years prior to joining 
the policy and she hadnt had a trouble free period in the two years since shed done so. 
Our investigator didnt think AXA had done anything wrong in turning down the claim. Mr R 
(on behalf of Miss H) didnt agree. He said the medical evidence hadnt been properly 
considered and the condition Miss H was suffering from was unlike anything previously 
reported or investigated. So I need to reach a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. In considering how that applies 
in this case Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Miss Hs policy. I can see these 
say the policy wont cover pre-existing conditions. It defines those as:
any disease, illness or injury for which you have received medication, advice or treatment or 
you have experienced symptoms whether the condition has been diagnosed or not in the 
five years before the start of your cover.  
The policy goes on to explain that after someone has been a member for two years they 
may be able to claim for pre existing conditions if they been trouble free of that condition for 
that period. The definition of trouble free includes that someone hasnt visited any medical 
professional for the medical condition. 
In this case I can see Miss Hs specialist recorded her saying shes suffered from migraines 
for as long as she can remember, going back to school years and that she usually has 
these 2-3 times a week. The specialist went on to outline previous treatment Miss H had 
explored for her condition. 
I dont think its in dispute that would have impacted Miss H in the five years before she was 
included on this policy. I note in a call to AXA she said she hadnt been diagnosed with 
anything. But the policy refers to a condition which someone has experienced symptoms of 
and for which treatment has been provided. I think that applies in her case. And the 
problems she experienced and saw a medical professional about in in May 2019 were within 
two years of the policy start date. 
Ive gone on to think about whether that condition was related to her pre-existing condition or 
separate from it. I accept the impact on Miss H in May 2019 was different and thats what led 
to the specialist referral. But I dont think her GP has suggested the underlying condition had 
changed. In the section of the claim form he completed he did confirm Miss H had new 
symptoms, however he described the medical condition requiring treatment as migraine.
And there doesnt appear to be any other evidence to suggest an alternative cause for those 
symptoms. In particular I note her MRI scan was reported as being normal. And the focus of 
the plan from her specialist is around managing and treating the symptoms of migraine. 
Those symptoms might have altered but the evidence Ive seen doesnt show the underlying 
cause had. As a result I dont think AXA treated Miss H unfairly in saying her claim did relate 
to a pre-existing condition and so wasnt covered by her policy. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
James Park
Ombudsman