DRN-4069877
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined their claim for damage 
caused by an escape of water.
Mr and Mrs M had a jointly held buildings and contents insurance policy underwritten by 
Fairmead. They engaged the service of two loss assessors, who Ill call LA1 and LA2, to 
manage their claim. For ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr M in my decision including 
where actions have been carried out by his representatives.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr M noticed water leaking from his kitchen ceiling, directly below the 
bathroom. He notified his broker of the damage, which raised the claim with Fairmead, and 
appointed LA1. 
Mr Ms plumber visited to identify the cause of the leak. After removing the tiled bath panel, 
he concluded the leak was from the bathtap pipes. The plumber capped the pipes.
LA1 provided a work quote of over £28,000 to Fairmead. Over the following weeks, 
communication between LA1, Mr and Mrs M, and Fairmead was unsuccessful. Because of 
this, Fairmeads contractor didnt inspect the damage until around 10 weeks later. 
Mr M complained to Fairmead.
On investigating his complaint, Fairmead agreed that it had fallen short of expected service 
levels and paid £100 compensation to Mr M. 
After this, Fairmeads contractor issued a report which said the damage was caused by 
failed sealant around the bathtub, and the claim for £28,000 of repairs included items 
unrelated to the escape of water. Fairmead told LA1 that it had declined the claim, but the 
information wasnt passed on to Mr M as it shouldve been. 
Mr M stopped using LA1 and engaged the service of LA2. Fairmead explained again why it 
declined the claim. LA2 asked Fairmead to reconsider the claim under the accidental 
damage cover, and he provided a letter from the plumber who fixed the leak to confirm the 
pipework was the source.  Fairmead again declined the claim.
In its final response to Mr Ms complaint, Fairmead declined the claim relying on the policy 
exclusions of gradual damage caused by failed sealant, and its inability to confirm a one-off 
incident because of the work already carried out. Mr M didnt agree with the decision. He 
said hed done everything expected of him under the policy, and he complained that 
Fairmead hadnt used a regulated surveyor to assess the damage.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said the evidence supported 
Fairmeads reasons for declining the claim, which were in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. Our investigator said Fairmead used suitably qualified contractors to assess the 
damage, so she didnt think Fairmead needed to arrange a new inspection.
Mr M didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr M made his claim, it was his responsibility to show that a one-off incident had 
occurred which was covered under the terms of his policy. On the face of it, a leak from the 
bathroom into the kitchen could be considered a one-off incident, so it was reasonable that 
Mr M made his claim.
Responsibility then passed to Fairmead to either settle the claim or show why the policy 
didnt provide cover. 
The evidence in relation to this part of the complaint includes two letters issued by Mr Ms 
plumber, a quote for repairs, and Fairmeads contractors report. Having considered the 
evidence, Im persuaded that Fairmead fairly declined the claim for the following reasons:
The quote for repairs includes many parts of the house not affected by the leak. Mr M 
and LA2 agree with this point. 
The plumbers first report is brief, and the second report, issued almost a year later 
stated the following: 
No obvious leak above bath () After removal of bath panel, I could see water 
dripping from pipework from taps which were positioned in the rear centre of the 
bath. Removed bath and capped pipework.
But Fairmeads report, which included photos, stated:
water has been escaping around the sealant of the bath. To the left hand side of the 
wall there is a breakdown of the plaster. [water] has seeped into the kitchen directly 
below affecting the archway above the breakfast bar where cracking and damage is 
visible. There is no other damage to ceilings that can be validated as being caused 
by an escape of water and there is no evidence of damp 
The damage is not consistent with a one off event/insured peril.
The photos support Fairmeads description of the damage  the damage is around 
the sealant line and running below it, rather than around the pipework. On balance, 
Im satisfied the damage was more likely caused by failed sealant.
On page 17 of the policy booklet, damage caused by failed sealant is specifically 
excluded. Therefore, Im satisfied Fairmead declined Mr Ms claim fairly and in line 
with the policy.
Moving on, Fairmead also relied on Mr Ms obligations under the policy to decline his claim. 
Page 12 of the policy booklet says that when making a claim, he must tell Fairmead, as 
soon as reasonably possible and give us full details, and Retain any damaged () parts 
() so that we may inspect them.While I understand Mr M reported his claim promptly to his broker, the evidence indicates 
that his first loss assessor caused delays, most of which were avoidable, before Fairmead 
was able to inspect the damage. As Mr M engaged the service of the loss assessor, I cant 
hold Fairmead responsible for anything the LA1 did or didnt do which resulted in delays. But 
as the leak had already been fixed and the bathroom dried before Fairmead could attend, I 
think it reasonably explained that it couldnt validated the claim based on the information 
available.
Regardless of this point, Ive already said the claim was declined fairly under the policy 
exclusions for gradual damage caused by failed sealant. Therefore, whether or not there 
was a delay progressing the claim, the outcome wouldnt have been any different for Mr M.
Mr M doesnt think Fairmead used a suitably qualified or regulated company to carry out the 
damage assessment. Ive considered this point, but I cant see any evidence to show that 
Fairmead failed to appoint appropriate contractors. I see no reason to ask Fairmead to 
arrange another inspection.
In summary, the evidence suggests third parties outside the direct claim process and 
working on Mr Ms behalf contributed to delays. I understand that wouldve been frustrating 
and upsetting for Mr M, but I havent seen anything to suggest that Fairmead unfairly 
declined the claim. Therefore, Im satisfied Fairmead declined the claim reasonably under 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman