DRN-3455317
The complaint
Mr H complains that Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited harassed him for payment of a debt.
What happened
In July 2020 Cabot acquired a debt in Mr Hs name that related to a credit card he had with 
another business. The outstanding balance was around £10,000. Cabot sent Mr H a Notice 
of Assignment to confirm the new arrangements in September 2020. Cabot says it was given 
a phone number for Mr H when it purchased the account from the original lender. 
On 15 October 2020 Cabot called Mr H but didnt go on to discuss the detail of his account 
as its security questions werent answered. Mr H has told us he found the call concerning 
and wasnt willing to answer personal questions from a business he didnt have a 
relationship with. Cabot says that, following the call, it meant to put a hold on collections 
activities for 14 days but didnt. 
On 16 October 2020 Cabot called Mr H again, this time before 9am. Mr H explained that a 
third-party debt service, Ill call C, was working to help him with his finances and potential 
bankruptcy. Cabot updated Mr Hs address and confirmed it would only contact him in writing 
going forward. 
Cabot says it started attempts to contact Mr H again in November 2020 and sent him letters 
requesting an update to his circumstances. Despite sending several letters between 
November and March 2021 no contact from Mr H or C (on his behalf) was received. In April 
2021 Cabot says it passed the account to another business, Ill call R, to try and gain contact 
from Mr H. R returned the account to Cabot in August 2021 after it was unsuccessful in its 
attempts to contact Mr H. 
An error by Cabot meant it restarted phone contact with Mr H in August 2021. Mr H 
complained and said he felt Cabot was harassing him and had called despite promising not 
to. Cabot apologised and offered Mr H £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and has explained the contact received from 
Cabot impacted ongoing mental health problems he suffers with. An investigator at this 
service looked at Mr Hs complaint but thought Cabot had dealt with it fairly. Mr H disagreed 
and said he thought R had been put in place to intimidate him for payment. Mr H also said 
Cabot shouldve been aware he was unable to pay given the information it received about 
his circumstances. As Mr H asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree Cabot made mistakes when contacting Mr H by phone. I understand Mr H was going 
through a particularly difficult time and seeking support regarding his finances from C. And I 
agree that Cabot shouldve followed instructions not to call Mr H. But, whilst I agree there 
were mistakes, I have to balance that against the fact that Cabot purchased a debt in Mr Hs 
name with an outstanding balance. Given Cabot was seeking to make contact with Mr H to 
discuss whether he could reach an agreement to make repayments, Im satisfied it had a 
legitimate reason to get in touch. 
Ive looked closely at the different contact methods Cabot used. Cabot initially sent Mr H a 
Notice of Assignment setting out the new arrangements for his account. Cabots letter asked 
Mr H to get in contact to discuss his situation. When no contact was received, Cabot called 
Mr H on 15 October 2021. I can understand why Mr H didnt answer the security questions 
as hes told us he didnt know why Cabot had called. Cabot called Mr H the following day, 
despite agreeing not to. And Mr H went on to inform Cabot that C was acting on his behalf. 
Whilst I agree Cabot shouldnt have called Mr H back, it did take details of C and agreed to 
wait for it to make contact on his behalf. Im satisfied that was a reasonable approach. 
Mr H told Cabot that C was arranging bankruptcy for him and it placed the account on hold 
for two weeks. As no contact from C on Mr Hs behalf was received, Cabot sent letters to 
him and asked for updates about his situation. Mr H says Cabot shouldve known he wasnt 
in a position to make any payments and that C had made contact and provided information 
about his circumstances on his behalf. 
Cabot has sent us copies of its contact log, including calls and correspondence. I cant see 
anything that shows C ever contacted Cabot on Mr Hs behalf. And I havent seen anything 
that shows Mr H or C provided a detailed picture of his circumstances. Theres nothing on 
file that shows C subsequently contacted Cabot to notify it of its role or that Mr H was in the 
process of being made bankrupt. Im satisfied its fair for Cabot to contact Mr H for updates 
and requests for contact to discuss the debt. 
Mr H says Cabot instructed R to harass him and that its a firm of debt collectors  not 
mediators. I accept Mr Hs view that Cabot instructed R to contact him to discuss and 
ultimately collect the debt. But businesses can instruct third parties to act on their behalf for 
that purpose. And I havent seen anything that shows Cabots use of R was unreasonable or 
that Mr H was treated unfairly as a result. 
Cabot says a systems issue meant Mr H was called when the account was returned by R. I 
agree with Mr H that this was wrong and understand it was distressing. But the call took 
place in August 2021 and no contact from Mr H or C, on his behalf, had been received since 
Cabot acquired the debt around a year earlier. So whilst I agree Cabot shouldnt have called 
Mr H, Im remain of the view it had a legitimate reason to get in touch. 
Mr H has told us about mental health difficulties that were impacted by the contact Cabot 
made. I dont doubt how upsetting the calls were. Cabot has told us Mr H didnt make it 
aware of the difficulties he was experiencing until the complaint was raised. As Cabot is now 
aware of Mr Hs circumstances it will need to factor this in going forward. But I havent found 
evidence that shows Cabot was aware of Mr Hs circumstances at this stage. 
Ive looked at all Cabots contact with Mr H. Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I havent found 
that Cabot harassed him for payment. Im satisfied it acquired a debt in his name and has a 
legitimate reason to contact him to discuss repayment. Whilst I note Mr H has told Cabot C 
is acting on his behalf to arrange bankruptcy, that hasnt been put in place yet. And I havent 
seen any evidence that C has contacted Cabot on Mr Hs behalf. Given the timescales 
involved, Im satisfied its fair for Cabot to contact Mr H about the debt. I agree mistakes were made and Cabot called Mr H when it shouldnt have. Cabot has 
offered Mr H £75 to apologise. Ive considered everything Mr H has told us and Im satisfied 
that £75 fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused. The settlement offered 
is very much in line with what I wouldve told Cabot to pay, had no offer been made. As 
Cabot has already made an offer to settle Mr Hs complaint that is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint because the business has already made 
an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman