DRN-3104175
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC defaulted his account without justification and 
with the course of action Barclays have proposed to rectify the situation.
What happened
Mr T had a Barclays personal loan account was in arrears. Barclays sent a default notice to 
Mr T explaining that if he didnt clear the arrears on the account by a specific date that the 
account may be defaulted by Barclays for non-payment. Mr T did make a payment to clear 
the arrears and bring the account up to date, but Barclays subsequently defaulted the 
account anyway. Mr T wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ts complaint. They acknowledged that theyd made an error by 
defaulting the account and apologised to Mr T for this. Barclays also explained that because 
of limitations with their systems that they werent reasonably able to restore Mr Ts personal 
loan account to the position it should be in had the default not been incorrectly applied. So, 
Barclays offered to amend the credit file reporting for the personal loan to show it as being 
settled, rather than as defaulted, and to give Mr T an Interest Free Error Loan to cover the 
balance that should be outstanding on the original personal loan account. Barclays also 
offered to make a payment of £500 to Mr T to compensate him for the trouble and upset the 
matter had caused. 
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, and wanted his original loan account restoring 
to the correct position. So, he referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked at this complaint. But they felt that Barclays explanation as to why the original loan 
account couldnt be restored was reasonable, and that Barclays proposals to ensure that   
Mr T wasnt disadvantaged by what had taken place were fair. 
Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays dont dispute that they made an error by defaulting Mr Ts account when they did or 
that the default should never have happened. In circumstances such as this, it would be 
expected that Barclays would take the corrective action necessary to restore Mr T to the 
position he should be in, had the error not taken place.
Usually, this would involve the removing of the default and the restoration of the original 
account to the position that it should be in, had it not been defaulted  and Im aware that 
this is the course of action that Mr T would like Barclays to take.
However, in this instance, Barclays have explained that limitations with their internal systems 
make this course of corrective action untenable, and instead have offered an alternative 
solution designed to ensure that Mr T is put into a finical position no worse than the position 
he would be in, if it were possible to restore the original loan account as he would like.
This alternative solution involves amending the credit file reporting so that the original loan 
account no longer shows as having been defaulted, but rather as having been settled, which 
as such wouldnt have an adverse effect on Mr Ts credit file. The solution also includes Mr T 
being given a new Interest Free Error Loan for the balance that should be outstanding on the 
original loan account. This new loan account wouldnt incur any credit checking prior to being 
put in place, and so also wouldnt adversely effect Mr Ts credit file.
Barclays proposed solution here seems reasonable to me, and while I appreciate that Mr T 
has concerns over the status of his original loan account, which is currently recorded as 
being defaulted, Barclays have confirmed that they would remove all mention of the default 
from Mr Ts credit file so that the original loan showed as being settled by Mr T meaning that 
the credit file reporting would essentially show that the default never occurred.
This is what would be expected of Barclays here, and the only difference to Mr Ts preferred 
course of action is that rather than the original loan being restored, a new loan would be set 
up in its place with the correct balance outstanding. And as explained previously, this loan 
wouldnt incur any credit check, and so wouldnt adversely impact Mr Ts credit file.
Ultimately, the corrective action proposed by Barclays here would result in the incorrect 
default being removed from Mr Ts credit file and the correct loan balance being outstanding, 
all without any adverse impact to Mr Ts credit reporting. And given that Barclays have made 
this proposal because the original loan account cant be restored to such a position because 
of limitations with their own systems, and have made efforts to ensure that Mr T isnt in any 
way disadvantaged by their proposal, I find it difficult to reach any conclusion other than that 
Barclays proposal is fair and reasonable here.
Barclays have also offered to make a payment of £500 to Mr T to compensate him for the 
trouble and upset this matter has caused. Matters of compensation can be subjective, with 
an offer considered as being fair by one party not being considered as being such by 
someone else. But the £500 that Barclays have offered here does feel fair to me, and I can 
confirm that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances.
All of which means that Im satisfied that Barclays response to Mr Ts complaint, including 
the offer to amend the credit file reporting on the original loan account and to implement a 
new loan in regard to the balance that should be outstanding on the original account, as well 
as the offer of £500 compensation to Mr T, does represent a fair and reasonable resolution 
to what has taken place here.
I realise that this may not be the outcome that Mr T was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action, beyond that to 
which theyve already agreed. I hope that Mr T will understand, given all that Ive explained, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman