DRN-2394095
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with how ReAssure Life Limited have administered his whole of life policy.
What happened
In early 2020 Mr T received a review letter from ReAssure about his whole of life policy. The 
letter explained that the current premiums would only maintain the sum assured for the next 
year. The premiums would need to substantially increase moving forward to keep the same 
sum assured. Mr T was also given the option of keeping the same premiums but the sum 
assured would be reduced.  
Mr T complained to ReAssure saying this was the only review letter he had received and if 
he had known earlier about the decrease in value he wouldve surrendered the policy. 
ReAssure explained that with this type of policy the premiums go up as the cost of cover 
increases when the policy holder gets older. They also explained there was no need to send 
review letters in previous years as the premiums had been sufficient for the sum assured.
Remaining unhappy Mr T brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. As ReAssure werent involved in the sale of the 
policy she couldnt comment on any advice given at that time about the suitability of the 
policy. She felt the paperwork ReAssure gave to Mr T made clear the reviewable nature of 
the policy and how these reviews would work. Mr T disagreed, so the complaint has come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to let Mr T know that Ive read and carefully considered everything hes 
submitted even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive condensed the complaint and all of the 
information which reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mr T is unhappy because the review letter he received in early 2020 shows he will need to 
make some serious financial decisions about his policy. I can understand his concern 
because the options presented mean either a substantial increase in premiums or a 
reduction in the sum assured. Mr T says that to say this letter came as a shock is an 
understatement; and I can see why he feels this way. But this doesnt mean that ReAssure 
have done anything wrong or acted incorrectly. 
In response to our investigator Mr T clarified his complaint points and I think its useful to 
address these in turn. Hopefully this will give Mr T confidence that Ive given consideration to 
all of his points, even if we have a difference of opinion about the outcome.  
Mr T took the policy out in early 1996. At that time he was provided with information from 
both his financial advisor and ReAssure. One piece of information was a letter from 
ReAssure outlining the Key Features of the policy. Mr T says this letter makes no mention of 
the reviewable nature of the policy, and hes right; there is no mention. 
Because of this he feels the letter doesnt meet the requirements of the regulator. However 
the rules at the time were different from those quoted by Mr T, and Im satisfied the letter met 
those rules. Its also important to note that the first page of the letter says that Mr T has a 
series of policies as explained in the enclosed Technical guide. So I think ReAssure made 
clear that the Key Features letter should be read in conjunction with the Technical Guide. 
 
Mr T says that he is a lay person and that the Technical Guide is full of small print and 
legalistic language. Running to some 17 pages I agree there is a lot of information to digest 
with some of the language not necessarily written in the plain English we would expect to 
see today in such documents. 
Page 6 of the Technical Guide has a bold heading Benefits for the future. Under this is a sub 
heading Changes to benefits and contribution levels. This explains, amongst other things, 
that there are reviews to the policy each year and that contribution levels may be increased 
at the review date to keep the sum assured at the same level. So Im satisfied the Technical 
guide makes clear the reviewable nature of the policy. 
I think its important to say here that the policy was sold to Mr T by a financial advisor and 
not by ReAssure. I would expect a financial advisor to explain the features of a policy to a 
client as well as making sure it was suitable for their needs. This advice is followed up by 
product information such as that provided by ReAssure. I therefore cant hold ReAssure 
responsible if the product isnt suitable for Mr Ts needs. 
During the term of the policy Mr T has more than once increased his level of cover. 
ReAssure confirmed the details of those changes and provided updated Key Features in 
writing. Mr T correctly points out that those letters also dont make the reviewable nature of 
the policy clear. As I explained above, at the time of those letters the rules were different and 
ReAssure wasnt obliged include more information than they did. 
Alongside the letters Mr T doesnt feel were clear enough he didnt receive any annual 
statements from when the policy was taken out in 1996 until 2017. Again I agree that Mr T is 
right; ReAssure didnt issue annual statements until 2017. The reason they didnt issue 
statements is that ReAssure would only do so if the premiums were no longer sufficient to 
support the sum assured. Because in those intervening years the premiums, and the fund, 
were enough to support the sum assured no statements were issued. 
It might be helpful to explain a little about how the policy works and how this affected Mr T.
The policy was set up to ensure it provided the same level of life cover for as long as 
possible. At the start some the premiums would go towards the cost of the life cover, and 
some to the underlying investment. As the fund increases and the cost of life cover also 
increases the fund will support the premiums to pay for the life cover. This is how Id expect 
the policy to work. So, whilst the cost of life cover has been more expensive than the 
premiums over the last few years, the fund has been there to support the premiums meaning 
Mr T hasnt had to increase them. However, this is no longer the case.
I agree with our investigator that it mayve been useful for ReAssure to issue annual 
statements. This wouldve made Mr T, and other policy holders, more aware of the financial 
situation of their policy. Mr T says that ReAssure has a legal duty to issue annual 
statements, but neither the policy documents, nor the regulators rules for these types of 
products, say this is the case. I note that since 2107 ReAssure now issues annual statements to policyholders regardless 
of the outcome of any review. Mr T feels this is too little and too late for him. I agree the 
changes ReAssure have made wont help him in his current situation. However as I 
explained above I dont think ReAssure did anything wrong by not previously issuing annual 
statements. 
Mr T is also unhappy with how the reviews or his policy were conducted, and the lack of 
communication about those reviews.
Mr T says the review letter he received in 2020 is clear, concise and understandable. He 
goes on to say that this type of information shouldve been provided from the outset. Without 
wanting to repeat myself Ive explained above why I disagree this is the case. 
Looking at previous financial information about the policy Mr T feels ReAssure shouldve 
known before 2020 that the premiums were insufficient for the long term. I can see why in 
hindsight Mr T feels this way, but Ive seen nothing to show that the reviews were conducted 
incorrectly.  
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied that ReAssure have administered Mr Ts 
policy correctly. Thats not say that Mr T isnt in a difficult financial situation with some 
unpalatable decisions to make; he clearly is. However Im happy ReAssure acted as they 
should have when conducting the reviews, and in the way they communicated with Mr T.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman