DRN-3061124
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car he purchased with the assistance of finance from Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) isnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr P bought a used Porsche on 24 February 2018. The car was four years old and had 
covered 30,700 miles. Mr P paid £34,995 for the car and took out a finance agreement over 
36 months. 
Mr P said that the car developed a number of issues during his period of ownership. The 
most serious issue was an oil leak from the engine and the intercooler. Mr P said that he 
took the car back to the dealership on a number of occasions and was told there were no 
faults. Mr P said that in September 2019 another garage found the oil leak and other faults 
with the car. Mr P wants to reject the car and have his deposit returned. Mr P said that the 
car has now been stolen and so it cant be inspected.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint. They didnt think there was enough evidence 
to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mr P. They 
noted that at the point of the inspection in September 2019 the car had travelled over 20,000 
miles and there wasnt any evidence that the car had an ongoing oil leak or other issues that 
were present at the point of supply. They thought that the faults were more likely to have 
developed over time.
Mr P didnt agree and replied to say in summary that the car was dangerous and had 
multiple faults which the garage didnt want to admit to. Mr P says that he was misled that 
the car didnt have any faults and it was only when he took the car to an independent garage 
that he found out that the oil leak was still there.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS, as the supplier of the car, is responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr P - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality at that time will 
depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the price that 
was paid for it.
The car that was supplied to Mr P was four years old, had been driven for around 30,000 
miles and had a price of £34,995. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means 
that the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  
but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors. Clearly, it can be 
reasonable to expect an older car to have more faults and require replacement of items 
more often than a brand-new car.
There were clearly some issues with the car at the outset which resulted in a replacement of 
the oil filter. It seems to me that if the engine and intercooler had an oil leak this would have 
been identified on the inspections. It would also have been noted on the MOT as an advisory 
matter. Mr P would also have noticed that the car required topping up with oil.
Mr P later complained about issues with the door mirrors in December 2018. This was reset 
on the car. Mr P then raised the problem with the reversing sensors in April 2019 but no fault 
could be found by the garage. Mr P then raised problems with the heated seats and other 
electrical issues in August 2019 after the car had covered 50,765 miles. Again, the garage 
was unable to find any faults. Mr P then took the car to an independent garage that 
diagnosed an oil leak. 
As the car has been stolen it hasnt been possible to inspect the car and so I dont have any 
evidence about when the leak may have started.
Ive seen no evidence to show that this fault was present or developing when the car was 
supplied to Mr P. Although Mr P reported faults these were either repaired or could not be 
found. Mr P has been able to use the car for eighteen months and to drive more than 20,000 
miles in it before the oil leak has been found. Im not persuaded that the issues the car had 
in August 2019 were present or developing when the car was supplied to him.
I sympathise with Mr P for the issues that hes had with the car and for the unfortunate theft 
 but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require VWFS to 
allow Mr P to reject the car or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman