DRN-2560787
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim on his motor
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L was involved in an accident abroad in March 2019 while driving his motorhome. He hit 
some overhead cables that had come down in winds. Mr L said the police told him he wasnt 
at fault for the accident and the third-party company responsible for the cables was at fault. 
Mr L claimed on his policy for damage to his motorhome.
AXA said it would be difficult to recover the money from the third-partys insurer but
instructed its overseas agents to try to recover the money it had paid for Mr Ls claim. Mr L
complained to AXA as he thought it was taking too long to deal with the claim. He said the
open claim on his record meant that hed been charged more for other policies. He thought
AXA should close the claim as non-fault as he wasnt at fault for the accident.
AXA said claims such as these could take some time to resolve, due to the other party being
overseas. However, it accepted there had been a lack of action from November 2019 and
offered Mr L £100 compensation. Mr L didnt think that was enough and brought his
complaint to our service.
While we were looking into Mr Ls complaint, AXA told us it had passed the claim to its
recoveries team. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 January 2021. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common for insurance policies to give the insurer the right to defend or settle a claim as it
sees fit. However, I look to see if AXA has[done] so fairly and reasonably.
AXA passed the claim to its overseas agent straight away. There was a request for
information from the agent in June 2019 which AXA responded to. However, AXA doesnt
seem to have chased their agent to find out what was happening until October 2019, when
Mr L complained.
The notes say at this point the agent hadnt sent documents to the third-partys insurer. The
agent asked for an engineers report and images. AXA sent over the repairs estimate from
the garage, as well as images.
Mr L contacted AXA again in March 2020 to find out what was happening. AXAs agent said
there wasnt much to update on his claim. I can see from the notes AXA sent two emails to
its agent in May 2020 to find out what was happening but said there were delays caused by
Covid-19.
In June 2020 AXAs agent said it had sent over the documents to the third-party insurer but
had been advised it was unlikely it would be able to recover its outlay due to a lack of:
engineers report; proof that AXA had paid the claim and authorisation for repairs. The email
asked for further information to present to the third-party insurer. AXA said it had sent the
report and images and asked if the other information was still needed.
In November 2020 AXA said it had passed the claim to its recoveries team to review,
however noted that the information that had been requested previously was still outstanding.
I can understand why AXA felt it would be difficult to prove the third-party was negligent, but
I dont think its done enough in trying to do so. I say that because it hasnt sent all of the
information the overseas agent asked for, and there have been periods of time where it
didnt chase up what was happening or keep Mr L updated. I also havent seen anything to
indicate whether AXA was able to obtain a copy of the police report, or what it did to try to
get a copy.
Claims where liability is disputed can take some time to resolve. This time is often increased
when the accident takes place abroad. However, given that I dont think AXA has done
enough to progress this complaint, I dont think it produces a fair and reasonable outcome
for Mr L to still have an open claim on his record. I understand AXA has passed the claim to
its recoveries team to review and while its still possible that AXA might recover the money
its paid out, its impossible to know the impact the delays and lack of requested information
has had on the outcome of the claim. And I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for
Mr L to have a fault claim on his record due to AXAs lack of action.
While claims are commonly referred to as fault and non-fault. Whats recorded is whether the
no claims discount (NCD) is allowed or not. As such, I intend to find that the fair and
reasonable outcome here is for AXA to close the claim and record that Mr Ls NCD is
allowed. If Mr L has paid an excess AXA should also refund it as he wont now be able to
recover it from the third-party insurer as an uninsured loss.
As Mr L feels that the open claim has impacted his premium with other insurers, hell be able
to ask them to re-rate his policies on the basis that the claim was non-fault. If hes unhappy
with their response Mr L can complain about that separately if he wishes.
AXA has offered Mr L £100 as compensation for delays. The time the claim has been open,
as well as not being updated has caused Mr L unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I
think a total of £300 would be a fairer amount of compensation. 
Mr L didnt add any further comments however, AXA didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. It said where accidents happen abroad they have to give the third-party insurer six 
months to respond, so didnt think there was an unreasonable delay between June 2019 and 
October 2019. It also said it had to ensure claims were recorded accurately and so couldnt 
allow Mr Ls NCD or refund his excess unless it has recovered the money it had paid out on 
the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken AXAs point that it has to allow six months for the third-party to respond as the 
accident took place abroad. And I can see that it took even longer than this for the third-party 
insurer to say it wasnt accepting liability. Ive also noted that it was February 2020 that Mr L 
got in touch for another update rather than March 2020, as Id said in my provisional decision. But Im still not persuaded that AXA did enough to progress the claim.
AXAs system notes show it was advised in October 2019 that it would need a full engineers 
report and to find out whether Mr L was also planning to claim for any uninsured losses. AXA 
sent a repair estimate, rather than a full engineers report, and doesnt seem to have 
confirmed with Mr L whether he would be seeking any uninsured losses until February 2020 
when he got in touch again.
In June 2020 AXAs agent said it would be difficult to recover AXAs costs because there 
wasnt a full engineers report and other documents were missing. The agent asked AXA to 
provide this information. AXA seems to have sent the repair estimate and images again, 
despite being informed in January 2020 that the repair estimate might not be sufficient. AXA 
did ask if the other information was still needed. However, it seems clear to me from the 
correspondence that AXAs agent needed more that the repair estimate and images. This is 
supported by an email from someone in AXAs recoveries team that noted that AXA hadnt 
provided the information that had been requested. 
I appreciate that its important for claims to be recorded accurately, as other insurers will be 
able to see how the claim is recorded. But I also don think it would produce a fair and 
reasonable outcome for Mr L to have a fault claim recorded against him which may be due to 
AXA not doing enough to progress the claim. As such, I dont intend to depart from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Close the claim and record the claim as NCD allowed
Refund any excess Mr L paid
Pay Mr L a total of £300 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman