DRN-2416035
The complaint
Ms B says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to her irresponsibly. She said 
that Mutual did not make adequate checks before lending. She thinks that if it had done it 
wouldve seen that she had a significant amount of debt and not lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about 12 home collected loans Mutual provided to Ms B between 
November 2012 and July 2018.
loan 
numberdate startedamount 
borrowedTerm 
(weeks)date ended
1 10/11/2012 £500 51 04/09/2013
2 04/05/2013 £400 51 04/09/2013
3 09/11/2013 £1,000 102 26/11/2014
4 11/01/2014 £500 51 20/08/2014
5 09/08/2014 £1,500 102 23/12/2015
6 29/11/2014 £1,000 102 11/05/2016
7 23/12/2015 £1,250 102 25/01/2017
8 07/05/2016 £1,000 102 25/01/2017
9 08/04/2017 £1,000 102 25/04/2018
10 12/08/2017 £600 102 25/04/2018
11 27/01/2018 £500 102 07/11/2018
12 14/07/2018 £600 51 outstanding 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She said that Mutual shouldnt have approved 
any lending after loan 5 as the lending pattern itself was harmful. Mutual disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. Ive read in total what Mutual has said and a brief summary is below:
our adjudicator hasnt considered the product properly. This type of lending is not the 
same as a payday lending
the loans are not high interest or expensive
the adjudicator didnt properly consider Ms Bs circumstances or consider what 
proportionate checks were needed. The checks Mutual did were proportionate, and 
approved after personal contact. A discussion about affordability took place before 
each loan and Ms B agreed with the lending. It provided certainty of cost to her
its not appropriate to use an arbitrary loan number to uphold the complaint at. And 
there is no evidence to support the adjudicators conclusions that the length of time 
over which the consumer borrowed makes the loans unsustainable
repeat lending, and long-term use of home credit, is not necessarily harmful to 
consumers and the indsutry regulator has confirmed this
Ms B borrowed two loans per year for approprite reasons, this frequency didnt 
increase. The amounts lent started off small, before increasing, and then reducing for 
the later loans.  Her repayment history was good throughout the lending relationship
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints 
and the what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this type of 
credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues. I dont intend to go into 
detail about that here. But a brief summary of this is below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Ms B. It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has responded to 
Mutual on these issues in detail through other final decisions and the published 
decisions on our website. So Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit. 
And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, a payday loan, that does not 
make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as such, long-term use of 
these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said anything to the 
contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything else in 
making my decision.
Ms B didnt respond to our request for further information about when she had cause to 
complain. So the Financial Ombudsman Service didnt consider if loans 1 to 4 were within 
our jurisdiction and we, ultimately, didnt recommend that Mutual compensate Ms B in 
respect of the sale of these loans. And Ms B appears to have accepted this. Because of 
these factors wont be making a decision about this lending. But they were part of the 
borrowing relationship Ms B had with Mutual. So they are something I will take into account 
when considering the other loans she took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 5 to 12 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mutuals lending 
history with Ms B, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Mutual should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
5. And this isnt an arbitrary number but is based on the individual circumstances of this 
case, including the consumers lending pattern. I say this because:
at this point Mutual ought to have realised Ms B was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Ms B had taken out five loans in just under two years. So Mutual ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not that her indebtedness was unsustainable 
Ms Bs first loan was for £500 and loan 5 was for £1,500  three times the original 
amount and the latest in a line of loans of relatively high amounts. I dont agree with 
Mutual when it says that this increase in indebtedness was necessarily slow or not 
significant
right from the start Ms B was often provided with a new loan when she had either just 
settled a previous one or when she still had a loan, or loans, outstanding  loan 5 
was approved when she already had other loans still to repay. And Ms B refinanced 
some of the loans, that is she used part of a new loan to repay outstanding debt 
Ms B wasnt making any real inroads into the amount she owed Mutual. Loan 12 was 
taken out around six years after Ms Bs first. And it was for a larger amount. Ms B 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mutual over an 
extended period
I do accept that the loan amounts decreased towards the end of the lending 
relationship. But the later loans were still for higher amounts than loans 1 and 2 and, 
as Ive said above, Ms B had been borrowing for an extended period anyway at this 
time
And I dont agree that a good repayment history is evidence that the lending is 
sustainable. Its equally, if not more, plausible that the long-term effect of making 
these loan repayments week in and week out led to further borrowing.
I think that Ms B lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Bs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms B borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 12 and Mutual should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms B from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mutual shouldnt have given Ms B loans 5 to 12.
If Mutual has sold any outstanding debts Mutual should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Mutual is not able to buy the debts back then Mutual 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms B towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms B having made 
overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Mutual should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms B. Mutual shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mutual has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Ms Bs borrowing for loans 5 to 12 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Bs credit file. 
Mutual does not have to remove loan 12 from Ms Bs credit file until it has been repaid, but 
Mutual should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman