DRN-2262995
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Santander has accepted responsibility for dealing with this complaint. So from now on, to 
keep things simpler, Ill just refer to Santander as the seller.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out in 1991. The policy protected 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage monthly repayments in the event that Mr M was unable to work. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy terms Santander has referred us to say that benefits for accident, sickness or 
unemployment wont be paid for the first 12 weeks of each period of disability or 
unemployment.
This was an important term its reasonable to expect Santander to have explained clearly to 
Mr and Mrs M before they agreed to take the cover. And as its agreed this was an advised 
sale, Santander also had to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommended 
was suitable.
Usually Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been presented. Theres only limited information available. 
Mr M says the policy was arranged during a meeting and hes provided a copy of the 
application form he completed when he applied for the PPI. 
Santander hasnt been able to confirm exactly how the PPI was sold. But it accepts that this 
would likely have been an advised sale  in other words, that it would have personally 
recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs M. 
Santander says that as part of its sale process it provided full disclosure on the policy, 
including the terms, conditions, limitation and exclusions on the policy at the point of sale. 
Santander also said this information was in the policy summary Mr and Mrs M would have 
received at the point of sale and would have been reiterated in the policy document they 
would have received together with their policy certificate.
Santander cant show me how it explained the important policy terms to Mr and Mrs M or 
considered if these were suitable, bearing in mind Mr and Mrs Js circumstances. 
In particular, I dont know how or if Santander drew their attention to the 12 weeks waiting 
period before Mr M would be able to make a claim on the policy. 
I dont know exactly when the policy leaflets wouldve been given to Mr M  or when he 
wouldve had a chance to read through them. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs M would have necessarily spotted the information about the 
12 weeks exclusion or understood what this might mean for them in their particular 
circumstances. 
As an advised sale, it was Santanders duty to highlight any terms that may have made this 
policy unsuitable for Mr M.
So based on everything Ive looked at, I dont think theres enough information to show that 
Santander clearly explained the waiting period to Mr M before he agreed to buy PPI. 
Mr M has told us that he wouldve had to mainly rely on statutory sick pay at the time if he 
was too ill to work. 
And Mr and Mrs M didnt have any significant savings or any other means they couldve 
relied on to cover the monthly mortgage repayments when they took out the policy for Mr M. 
So I think its likely that Mr and Mrs M mightve struggled to meet their mortgage repayments 
during the 12 weeks waiting period if Mr M lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work or 
off work due to illness.
In coming to my decision I've taken into account that Santander says Mr M was under no 
obligation to take the policy and he would have adjudged the policy terms suitable at the 
time when he took the policy out. And the fact alone that Santander doesnt have the 
evidence to show this does not mean it didnt bring the policy terms to the customers 
attention at the time.
But the policy was designed to give Mr and Mrs M peace of mind and the certain knowledge 
that their mortgage repayments would be covered in the event Mr M wasnt working. I dont 
think Mr and Mrs M wouldve agreed to take the policy to cover Mr M had Santander clearly 
explained the waiting period to them. 
And as a result, I think Mr and Mrs M have lost out because of what Santander did wrong.
So Santander should take the following steps to put things right .
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr M in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
Santander should:
Pay Mr M the amount he paid each month for the PPIAdd simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes Mr M.  
Santander can deduct from the redress shown above any commission amount relating to 
this PPI sale that it has already repaid to Mr and Mrs M.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should put things 
right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman