DRN-2700804
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt settled a cancellation claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building 
society.
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs W booked a holiday abroad. They were due to fly to a country 
which Ill call N, on 11 February 2020 with a stopover in China. However, as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel to China on 28 January 2020. So Mr and Mrs Ws travel provider suggested 
that they re-route their flight to N via another country, which wasnt affected by FCO 
restrictions at that point. The travel provider explained that tickets on this new route were 
limited.
Mr and Mrs W decided against re-routing their flights and cancelled the trip. Mrs W had 
suffered a stroke some years before, which had led to her suffering balance problems. In 
November 2019, shed suffered a resultant fall and had had to undergo partial hip 
replacement surgery. Mr and Mrs W said that given Mrs Ws accessibility needs and the 
need for her to have wheelchair assistance; travel with her motor scooter and arrange 
stopover accommodation with accessible facilities; it wasnt feasible to travel by another 
route. Their travel provider refunded the costs of Mr and Mrs Ws flights from and to the UK. 
But they were left out of pocket for internal flights in N; their accommodation costs and the 
costs of visa documentation. So they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
UKI considered Mr and Mrs Ws claim. It said the circumstances werent strictly covered by 
the policy terms. But it agreed to consider the claim on a goodwill basis, if Mr and Mrs W 
could provide medical evidence which confirmed that the alternative re-route the travel 
provider had suggested wouldve been unsuitable for Mrs W. It also acknowledged that 
thered been delays in its handling of Mr and Mrs Ws claim, so it paid them £50 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought it was fair for UKI to ask Mr and Mrs W to provide medical evidence 
in support of their claim. She didnt think the cancellation section of the policy strictly covered 
their circumstances. But she thought it was reasonable for UKI to consider the claim as a 
gesture of goodwill if Mr and Mrs Ws GP confirmed that the alternative trip wouldnt have 
been suitable for Mrs Ws accessibility needs. So she didnt think UKI needed to pay the 
claim without this information.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They maintained that the policy covered cancellation due to 
changes to FCO guidance and natural disasters. They said that there were no alternative 
seats available and that owing to Mrs Ws medical condition, this re-route hadnt been 
practical. They felt the re-route option wasnt comparable with their booked itinerary, given 
there were differences in the duration of stop-overs. They felt that to have accepted the 
travel providers alternative wouldve been reckless and stupid, without the opportunity to 
pre-book and research whether Mrs Ws needs could be met. They also said that given the 
pandemic, they didnt want to bother their GP, as its website suggested patients should only 
contact the surgery for emergency reasons. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think UKI has handled Mr and Mrs Ws claim fairly and reasonably. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws policy and the available evidence to decide whether 
UKI handled the claim fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first carefully considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws policy, as this 
forms the basis of their contract with UKI. The cancellation section says:
You are covered for
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if you have 
to cancel your trip, including:
 Deposits.
 Commercially operated accommodation and travel costs.
 Car hire.
 Excursions and activities.
 Kennel, cattery, professional pet sitter costs.
 Car parking charges.
 The value of used points or miles if you booked your flight or accommodation using Avios  
or a similar promotional scheme.
-FCO travel advice All travel: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All 
travel to your destination. The advice must have come into
force after you opened your current account, or booked your trip whichever is later;
-FCO travel advice All but essential travel: in the 28 days before your trip start date 
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to your 
destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened your current 
account, or booked your trip whichever is later;
-Natural disaster: you are unable to use your pre-booked and pre-paid 
accommodation due to the immediately surrounding area being badly affected by a 
natural disaster.
Natural disaster is defined as: fire, storm, lightning, landslide, avalanche, explosion, 
hurricane, earthquake, volcanic eruption, flood, tidal wave, medical epidemic or pandemic.UKI says that the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws claim dont fall within a strict 
interpretation of its policy terms and Ive considered this. The FCO advised against all but 
essential travel to China on 28 January 2020. Mr and Mrs W were due to transit through 
China on their way to N. But it wasnt their destination point  N was their destination point 
and there was no FCO advice in place against travelling to N until 17 March 2020, when the 
FCO advised against all but essential travel abroad.
Even if I thought UKI should interpret this clause more widely though, I still dont think it 
wouldve covered Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances. Thats because Mr and Mrs Ws holiday 
wasnt cancelled due to the change in FCO advice  Ive seen an email from their travel 
provider dated 1 February 2020 which outlined the option to potentially re-route their flights 
to N through another country. While the travel providers email does say that availability was 
extremely limited (and Mr and Mrs W later said that there were no seats left), it seems the 
provider planned to approach the airlines to arrange a re-route of Mr and Mrs Ws holiday if 
theyd agreed. So it seems to me that despite the change in FCO advice, Mr and Mrs Ws 
holiday plans couldve potentially been amended without the need to cancel their trip and 
without incurring cancellation costs.
However, Mr and Mrs W opted to cancel their trip because they felt the re-route option 
wasnt suitable for Mrs Ws needs. And while the definition of natural disaster does include 
medical epidemics (Covid-19 wasnt declared a pandemic until 11 March 2020), as Ive 
outlined, I think Mr and Mrs Ws holiday was cancelled because of the proposed itinerary 
changes rather than because of Covid-19 itself.
So on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mr 
and Mrs Ws claim wasnt covered.
Is it fair for UKI to require medical evidence in support of Mr and Mrs Ws claim?
UKI has agreed to step away from a narrow interpretation of its policy terms and offered to 
consider Mr and Mrs Ws claim on a goodwill basis, if Mr and Mrs W are able to provide 
medical evidence which confirms that the re-route alternative wouldnt have been suitable for 
Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs W have explained the accessibility adjustments Mrs W needs when travelling 
and theyve explained that theyd already discounted the proposed alternative route when 
they first booked their trip, due to the additional challenges this route presented to them. I 
absolutely understand why Mr and Mrs W wouldve wanted to ensure that any alternative 
route would be able to meet Mrs Ws accessibility needs and that she would be able to travel 
with her mobility scooter and receive any necessary assistance. I also can understand why 
they mightve been worried that their airlines couldnt provide these adjustments at short 
notice.
However, I do think that before it reconsiders the claim, its fair for UKI to be satisfied that 
Mrs Ws GP (or medical professional) wouldve concluded that the proposed re-route wasnt 
medically suitable for Mrs W, given her accessibility needs. UKI agreed to cover Mrs Ws 
medical conditions in March 2019 and Im aware it paid another cancellation claim in 
November 2019 following her fall. But it didnt agree to cover any further resulting claims 
without any supporting medical evidence to show that cancellation was medically necessary.
UKI has said it will accept a completed medical certificate setting out such a confirmation 
from the GP, or a written statement. I think its fair for UKI to require medical evidence which 
shows that Mrs Ws health wouldve made the proposed alternative trip unsuitable for her. 
And I dont think its an unreasonable request to ask Mr and Mrs W to get in touch with their 
GP to ask if they can provide such a certificate or letter for UKI to review. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W dont want to bother their GP in the current circumstances, but I need to be fair 
and reasonable to both parties. And I dont think I could fairly direct UKI to settle Mr and Mrs 
Ws claim in the absence of this information.
UKI acknowledged there were some delays in it responding to Mr and Mrs W during the 
early part of the claim. Its paid them £50 to recognise that it didnt handle the claim as 
promptly as it shouldve done. I think this was a fair award.
Overall, in these circumstances, I think its fair for UKI to conclude that it wont reconsider Mr 
and Mrs Ws claim without medical evidence confirming that the alternative route wouldve 
been unsuitable for Mrs W given her health. Its open to Mr and Mrs W to ask their GP for 
this evidence and for them to send it onto UKI to consider. If theyre unhappy with the way 
UKI reviews any new medical evidence they provide, Mr and Mrs W may be able to bring a 
new complaint to us about that issue alone.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman