DRN-3950325
The complaint
Miss O complains about the service she received after calling esure Insurance Limited to 
register a claim against her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Miss O and esure. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Miss O had a motor insurance policy with esure. She called them to register a claim. esure 
explained theyd put Miss O in contact with a third party legal entity - who Ill refer to as B2 
in this decision, about a personal injury claim she wanted to enquire about taking further. 
Miss O later raised a complaint with esure as she was unhappy that B2 hadnt contacted the 
named driver on the policy whod been driving at the time of the incident. esure issued their 
final response in June 2022. They didnt uphold the main part of the complaint and offered 
Miss O £100 for not clearly explaining the process of instructing B2 and for not following up 
on actions from the call.  
Miss O remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our Service for an independent 
review. Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld and as Miss O didnt 
accept, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. 
My decision will only consider the issues addressed by the final response letter dated 
14 June 2022. This is because, before our Service can investigate a complaint, the financial 
business has to first be given a fair opportunity to look into the complaint. That final response 
letter dealt with Miss Os unhappiness about B2 not contacting the named driver on the 
policy in relation to a potential personal injury claim. 
Should Miss O remain unhappy about any other issues that have occurred after 14 June 
2022, she needs to first raise these issues with esure. I make this point as Miss O refers to 
other issues in her complaint form to our service that havent been addressed by esure as 
part of this complaint that Im considering. The approach Im following here is set out under 
the DISP rules ( https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/8.html) that our Service 
must follow. DISP 2.8.1:
The Ombudsman can only consider a complaint if:
(1) 
the respondent has already sent the complainant its final response or summary 
resolution communication; or
(2) 
in relation to a complaint that is not an EMD complaint or a PSD complaint, eight 
weeks have elapsed since the respondent received the complaint;
Have esure treated Miss O fairly and reasonably?
Miss O has argued that even though the named driver didnt directly contact esure, an effort 
should have been made by them to speak to him. I dont agree with the position Miss O has 
taken here. I say this because:
In the initial claim notification call between Miss O and esure, Miss O only discusses 
her own symptoms and what she wants to do next  there is no detailed discussion 
at all about the named driver.
At around 5 minutes and 35 seconds into the call, Miss O tells the adviser she thinks 
she might have whiplash symptoms after returning to work and the person she was in 
the car with (the named driver) was fine. 
At around 20 minutes and 30 seconds into the call, the agent asks Miss O if she 
wants to make a personal injury claim. Miss O says she thinks she does want to, but 
she doesnt refer to the named driver at all at this point.
Near the end of the call, Miss O asks the agent if anybody else needed to speak to 
the named driver about the accident and the agent responded no. 
On balance, I dont conclude that Miss O could reasonably have been anticipating esure 
would be separately contacting the named driver to enquire if they wanted to make a 
personal injury claim. 
In her complaint form, Miss O says that the named driver attempted to contact esure many 
times with no response.  As no evidence has been provided to support that they did make 
contact with esure directly, on balance, I cant fairly conclude that esure acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in not responding to a further personal injury claim that they had no knowledge 
of.
In an email to our Service dated 3 February 2022 Miss O said: 
It is not my duty to follow up on another persons injuries. If [the named driver] has 
been injured that is for my insurance company to contact them directly. When his 
information has been given. Not take third party information from me the passenger. 
But I return to my previous point  no indication was given to esure that the named driver 
wished to pursue a personal injury claim either during the referenced call or, seemingly, in 
the months that immediately followed. Additionally, it isnt unreasonable to expect that even 
in a scenario where Miss O was under the impression (following the call) that esure would 
follow up with the named driver and then this didnt happen - shed have raised this as an 
issue with esure much sooner than she did. 
In their final response letter dated 14 June 2022 esure again set out that the named driver 
hadnt (at that point) contacted them and a contact number was provided. Alternatively, it was also explained that the named driver could also seek independent legal advice about 
any personal injury claim they wished to make.
In the final response letter, an offer of £100 was made by esure for some of the service 
received. I find this a fair, reasonable and proportionate way to resolve this part of the 
complaint. I dont require esure to do anything further. 
The actions of B2
My decision only comments on the actions of esure - not B2. Any complaint about B2 would 
likely need to be directed to the Legal Ombudsman.
Summary 
Based on what Ive seen and heard, I dont find that esure have treated Miss O unfairly or 
unreasonably here to the extent that further compensation would be appropriate. Whilst I 
accept that at the point of the referenced call the named driver may not have been 
experiencing symptoms that would lead to them wanting to make their own personal injury 
claim, it's reasonable to assume that if they later developed symptoms and wanted to pursue 
a similar claim theyd have made contact with esure to pursue this further.  
 
My decision will disappoint Miss O, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve this part of her dispute with esure. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman