DRN-3632501
The complaint
A company Ill call E has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
failed to pay its business interruption insurance claim after it suffered losses due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr A, a director of E, has brought the complaint on Es behalf.
What happened
E held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. It operates a property 
management business.
The Covid-19 pandemic led E to close its office in March 2020. It reopened in May 2020. 
E claimed on the policy. Initially the claim was declined. In March 2021 Mr A provided 
evidence that hed been on the premises whilst suffering from symptoms of Covid-19 before 
the first lockdown. In the light of that RSA accepted the claim subject to evidence of Es 
losses. 
E claimed for £7,143.21. It said it had lost commission because due to the pandemic many 
tenants could not pay the rent which E collected on behalf of its clients. It also said it was 
unable to carry out some property repairs for which it would charge a fee or attend properties 
where it would negotiate lease extensions. It also claimed for the rent it still had to pay to its 
landlord while the office was closed.
RSA said it would cover loss of revenue resulting from the closure of Es office but not loss 
of commission due to tenants not paying their rent because of a change in their 
circumstances. It thought income in respect of property repairs would have been delayed 
rather than lost. It asked for details of lease extensions E had been unable to negotiate. It 
didnt accept the claim for the rent on Es office as it said that was not a loss of gross 
revenue.
E sent a spreadsheet setting out its loss of commission on rents and loss of repair 
supervision fees. It said in many cases the tenants had arranged the repairs themselves as 
neither E nor its contractors could attend the premises.
RSA said the information provided wasnt sufficient to show that Es losses were solely as a 
result of the closure of the premises due to Covid-19.
Mr A brought Es complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator looked into Es complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She didnt 
think E had shown it had suffered a loss covered by the policy. 
E asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Es business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining the claim.
The most relevant part of Es policy covers loss as a result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises
RSA accepted that there had been a case of a notifiable human disease manifesting itself at 
the premises. The policy stated that claims would be settled on the basis of loss of Gross 
Revenue and (not relevant here) any increase in the cost of working. 
The term Gross Revenue is defined as The Money paid or payable to You for work done 
and for services rendered in the course of the Business at the Premises.
E claimed £4,981.23 in respect of lost commission on rent that tenants had failed to pay it. It 
seems most likely to me that the tenants in question had suffered economically due to the 
pandemic. Theres no suggestion that the tenants were unable to pay the rent just because 
Es office was closed. So, I dont think RSA treated E unfairly in refusing to accept this part 
of the claim.
In respect of the claim of £1,245.31 for lost fee income on repairs E appears to have based 
its claim on the difference in income from repair fees in 2021 and 2020 divided by 12. 
Whilst I accept that maybe not all repairs could wait a few weeks until E reopened its office, 
E hasnt provided any evidence of repairs arranged by the tenants without its involvement 
resulting in a loss of fee income. Its up to the policyholder to prove its claim and Im not 
convinced that it has done so satisfactorily in this case.
Lastly E claimed £916.67 for rent that it still had to pay its landlord while the office was 
closed. This was money paid out by E rather than paid or payable to E. So, it doesnt fall 
within the definition of Gross Revenue. Its also not an increased cost of working because 
the rent hadnt been increased as a result of Covid-19.
In summary, I dont think RSA has treated E unreasonably in not paying its claim.
Ive also looked at how RSA handled the claim. It was some time before it received evidence 
that thered been a case of Covid-19 on the premises. At times there was some avoidable 
delay on RSAs part but this wasnt to the extent that I think compensation is justified.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman