DRN-4333367
Complaint
Mr S has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided to 
him.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr S with a loan for £8,000.00 in March 2022. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £387.98. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr S and Everyday Loans had told us. And he 
thought that Everyday Loans hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Mr S complaint be upheld. Mr S disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr S could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Having carefully thought about everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to Mr S application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and Mr S bank statements which he was asked 
to provide. In its view all of this information showed Mr S could to comfortably make the 
repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr S has said he should never have been provided with this loan 
because of his existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and Everyday Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Everyday Loans clearly asked Mr S to provide quite a bit 
documentation to support his application. So I dont think that this was a case of Everyday 
Loans simply accepting an over-optimistic declaration of monthly disposable income at face 
value. Indeed, Mr S was asked to provide payslips and bank statements. 
Everyday Loans credit searches also showed the existing debts Mr S has referred to. But 
having reviewed the bank statements obtained, I cant see anything obvious on them which 
indicated Mr S wouldnt be able to make the repayments to this loan had he consolidated the 
debts he said he was going to. 
I know that this loan did increase the length of time Mr S would have to make payments for. 
But theres no doubting that Mr S would have been able to afford the repayments and would 
have had an increased monthly disposable income as long as Mr S closed the accounts 
once the balances were repaid rather than spending further on them.  
Equally, as this was Mr Ss first loan with Everyday Loans, Im satisfied that it was 
reasonably entitled to believe that it wouldnt be increasing Mr S existing indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
I accept that Mr S says he experienced difficulty making the payments. And I suspect the 
reason is because Mr S ended up re-establishing balances on some of his revolving credit 
accounts, or didnt settle the balances as he promised to. But Everyday Loans could only 
make a reasonable decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
Everyday Loans wont have known Mr S wouldnt close his revolving credit accounts and 
would retain balances on them. All Everyday Loans could do was take reasonable steps to 
ensure the payments would be affordable for Mr S and take reasonable steps to establish 
that he would clear his other debts like he said he would, which for reasons Ive already 
explained, Im satisfied it did so.
As this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Loans did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr S - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr S complaint, I would remind Everyday Loans of its continuing 
obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration should be the case that Mr S is 
experiencing difficulty and it chooses to collect payments from him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman