DRN-3836374
The complaint
Mrs P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to help her get her money back 
when she said shed been scammed while buying flight tickets. 
Mrs P has been represented by her husband, both in bringing this complaint and while 
pursuing the matter with HSBC. But for ease of reference, Ill refer to Mrs P throughout this 
decision. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mrs P booked what she thought were return flights overseas, through an 
online travel agency, Ill refer to as K. She paid £1,343.79 using her HSBC international 
debit card. But on receiving the booking confirmation she realised the flights were only 
one-way. She contacted HSBC and asked that the payment to K be stopped as she thought 
shed been scammed. HSBC explained Mrs P would need to raise her concerns with K 
directly. 
Mrs P says K offered only a partial refund for the outbound flights. As Mrs P still needed to 
travel abroad, she purchased return flights with K for December 2018 again using her HSBC 
debit card. These flights cost £1,412.90. But Mrs P said when her and her family attended 
the airport on the day they were due to fly, they were told by the airline that they had no 
reservations on that flight.   
In January 2019 Mrs P contacted HSBC again to ask for help recovering the money shed 
paid to K. HSBC explained that for it to raise a chargeback it would need her to provide 
certain evidence to prove that K hadnt provided the services shed paid for. 
Mrs P referred a complaint to our service in March 2022. She said HSBC hadnt done 
enough to recover the money shed lost. She said it also caused delays which it blamed on 
the pandemic. 
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Ps complaint but thought HSBC had dealt with her fairly.  
He was satisfied that HSBC had not been provided with enough evidence to raise a 
chargeback claim on Mrs Ps behalf, and it would now be too late to do so. 
Mrs P disagreed with our Investigator. In summary she said:
-HSBC should have stopped the payment when she first called to inform it that she 
thought shed been scammed,
-K should have been able to refund the tickets within 48 hours of the booking,
-HSBC told her to provide all the evidence to support her claim  she thought this 
should have been done by HSBC, and
-HSBC delayed looking into her claim due to Covid.
The case has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs P and her family. I appreciate 
shes lost a considerable amount of money and has been unable to visit family abroad as a 
result. But for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I think HSBC has acted fairly in the 
circumstances.    
Its important I highlight that I am only considering the actions of HSBC as part of this 
complaint. I am not considering whether K acted appropriately or provided Mrs P with the 
services she was entitled to. So, I have not considered Mrs Ps argument that K ought to 
have refunded her tickets when she first asked it to. 
Was Mrs P scammed?
I understand Mrs P believes she has been scammed as she hasnt received the services she 
paid for. But while I can appreciate her dissatisfaction with K, I cant reasonably conclude on 
the available evidence she has been scammed or that K was acting fraudulently. There is a 
high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain or 
causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
I can see that K is an active company that offers travel agency services. While I can see that 
some customers have been dissatisfied with the service it provides, and have left negative 
reviews online, others seem satisfied with the service theyve received. As Ill go on to 
explain, theres also a lack of corroborating evidence from the airline to confirm that Mrs P 
was unable to fly due to the acts or omissions of K. So, from the evidence weve been 
presented I cant safely conclude the company was acting dishonestly or fraudulently in its 
transactions with Mrs P. 
As Im unable to conclude that Mrs P fell victim to a scam, Im unable to conclude that HSBC 
ought to have taken any action before processing her payment instructions. So, the only 
thing for me to consider is therefore whether HSBC did enough to support Mrs P when she 
sought to recover the money she lost. 
As Mrs P made the payments using her debit card, the only potential option for recovering 
her money was via a chargeback. 
Chargeback
Chargeback isnt a legal right or a guaranteed way of getting a refund. But it can offer a way 
to informally resolve disputes between merchants and cardholders. The rules that apply are 
set by the card scheme, and there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. 
Banks must comply with those rules before attempting a chargeback on behalf of their 
customer. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (in this case HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably 
when presenting - or choosing not to present - a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (in 
this case Mrs P).HSBC has demonstrated that it asked Mrs P for confirmation from the airline that K had not 
booked airline tickets for her and her family as agreed, as well as evidence of the tickets 
supplied by K. While Mrs P has provided evidence of the confirmation she received from K, 
to date she has not provided evidence to show that those tickets were not in fact valid with 
the airline. 
HSBC has demonstrated that it requested this information from Mrs P on multiple occasions 
in writing and over the telephone between January 2019 and October 2019. While Mrs P 
says she responded to some of the requests, crucially she never provided evidence to show 
that the tickets provided by K were not in fact valid with the airline. 
While I accept Mrs Ps testimony that her and her family were unable to board her flight as 
intended, this does not in itself prove that K was at fault or that the tickets were not valid. 
Unfortunately, to date, I have seen no evidence from the airline to confirm that Mrs P and her 
family were turned away because their tickets were not valid. 
Im satisfied that without this evidence HSBC was not required to raise a chargeback as 
theres little chance it would have succeeded without clear evidence that Mrs P hadnt been 
provided with the services shed paid for (the flights). 
Mrs P has complained that HSBC expected her and her husband to liaise with the airline to 
get the information needed to prove their case. While Mrs P has suggested this was unfair, 
and that HSBC should have gathered the evidence itself, I disagree. As Mrs P was seeking 
to raise a chargeback, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to expect her to provide 
evidence to support her case. I also agree she was best placed to obtain the necessary 
information from the airline.   
While Mrs P has said HSBC unnecessarily delayed considering her claim, this is not 
supported by the evidence. As set out above, I have seen evidence that HSBC had asked 
Mrs P for evidence from the airline repeatedly between January 2019 and October 2019. Its 
unclear what interaction if any Mrs P had with HSBC during the pandemic, but this would 
have been months after HSBC had already given Mrs P ample opportunity to provide the 
information it asked for. 
I understand that Mrs P is still hoping to obtain evidence from the airline to show that K failed 
to book the flight. Unfortunately, even if this information is now presented to us or HSBC, it 
would be too late to now raise a chargeback claim, as it would need to have been raised 
within 120 days of when Mrs P was due to fly. As such, I dont think any future chargeback 
claim would be successful and so I dont think HSBC has any obligation to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman