DRN-3196659
The complaint
Ms P complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided a loan to Ms P as follows:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan Status
16/10/17 £3,100 24 months £297.82 £7,147.68 understood to be outstanding.
Ms P said that she was overdrawn at the time and using multiple other lenders and she has 
been unable to meet the repayments on this loan.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided Ms P with the loan and she set out the steps that needed to be taken to put 
things right.
Everyday Loans disagreed with the adjudicators assessment.
In summary, Everyday Loans mainly said that the monthly repayments for this loan and the 
fact it was used to repay other debt meant Ms Ps debt to income ratio improved with this 
loan.
As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive kept all this in mind when deciding Ms Ps complaint and having done so, I am upholding 
Ms Ps complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding Ms Ps complaint. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere. The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But 
reasonable and proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking 
about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well 
as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is 
for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit 
history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay.
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. And its important to keep in mind that when working out 
if a loan looks likely to be affordable a lender must take a borrower focussed approach and 
think carefully about the impact of the lending on the customer. The lending decision 
shouldnt just be about the business risk to the lender of not getting its money back.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ps complaint.
Everyday Loans gathered information from Ms P by asking her about her income and 
expenses. It relied on statistical information which indicated what the likely living expenses 
would be for someone in Ms Ps particular circumstances based on national UK averages. It 
also checked Ms Ps credit file to understand her existing monthly credit commitments and 
credit history. Everyday Loans said that based on these checks it was satisfied that the loan 
was affordable for Ms P.
I've thought carefully about what Everyday Loans has said, including the comments it has 
made in response to our adjudicators view, but I dont think that Everyday Loans made a fair 
lending decision when it provided this loan.
I say this because I dont think Everyday Loans properly took into account Ms Ps credit 
record when thinking about her overall financial situation.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other short-term loans or even an impaired credit record  and these wouldnt necessarily be 
a sufficient reason to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application.
But I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned when it noted in its affordability 
calculation that Ms P was already committed to paying around £1,149 just to service her 
existing debt. Given that Everyday Loans understood that her monthly take home pay was 
on average around £1,693, this meant that Ms P would be paying more than two thirds of 
her net pay to existing creditors  mostly unsecured loan and credit card providers. I think 
that this was such a significant proportion of Ms Ps monthly income it was a clear warning 
sign that she was already over-reliant on credit and potentially an indication that she was 
having serious money problems. 
And once Everyday Loans made allowance for her other monthly outgoings being around 
35% of her income, which seems reasonable to me, it looked like Ms P would have a 
shortfall of nearly £50 each month. 
I think that Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Ms Ps credit file showed that managing 
her debt had got beyond her control and it seemed likely she was borrowing from one 
creditor to pay others. I think Everyday Loans should have realised that this loan was likely 
to add to her overall indebtedness and financial difficulty. 
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But Everyday Loans didnt have control over this  it paid the money direct to 
Ms P. And I think the scale of her overall debt compared to the lesser value of the loan and 
the extent of her evident reliance on taking out expensive credit would suggest that she would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. So I dont think Everyday Loans 
shouldve provided this loan. 
I think thats borne out by the payment problems Ms P has run into  which I think was a 
reasonably foreseeable and predictable outcome of lending this loan to her. 
In coming to my decision, I've thought carefully about everything Everyday Loans has said, 
including comments made in response to our adjudicators view, but this doesnt affect my 
decision overall. I say this because even if Ms Ps debt to income ratio improved as a result 
of taking this loan, that alone isnt enough of a reason for me not to uphold her complaint. 
For all the reasons I have explained, I am upholding Ms Ps complaint that she should not 
have been given the loan.
This means that as Ms P has been further indebted with a high amount of interest on a loan 
that she shouldnt have been provided with she has lost out as a result of what Everyday 
Loans did wrong. I think Everyday Loans needs to take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Ms P hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 
Everyday Loans acted unfairly towards Ms P in any other way. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms P to repay the principal amount that she 
borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has been charged extra for a 
loan that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Ms P shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. If Everyday Loans has sold any outstanding debt it should buy it back before doing what 
I have outlined below. If Everyday Loans isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the following:
add up the total amount of money Ms P received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Ms P made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Ms P having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms P.
Whilst its fair that Ms Ps credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any 
negative information recorded on Ms Ps credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Ms P a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Ps complaint and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman