DRN-1567553
 
The complaint
Mr H has complained about a loan granted to him by The One Stop Money Shop Limited 
(Money Shop or the lender). Mr H says that the loan shouldnt have been agreed for him 
as he was in a spiral of debt at that time and was borrowing from several short term lenders. 
He says Money Shop would have understood this if it had checked his finances more 
thoroughly before lending to him.
What happened
Money Shop agreed a loan of £300 for Mr H in May 2019. It was to be repaid over 12 
months in monthly instalments of £49 (rounded). I understand the loan hadnt been fully 
repaid when Mr H brought his complaint to this Service.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. They found that the checks 
Money Shop carried out to assess Mr Hs ability to repay the loan were proportionate and 
that it hadnt lent irresponsibly. 
Mr H disagreed with this recommendation and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. The complaint has now come to me to review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that 
approach here. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Mr H took out his loan. The relevant 
rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) said that before 
lending Money Shop needed to make a reasonable assessment of Mr Hs creditworthiness. 
This meant that it needed to check that Mr H could meet his repayments out of his normal 
income without having to go without or borrow further and without the repayments having a 
significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Money Shop needed to carry out in 
order to reasonably assess whether Mr H would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances.
CONC 5. 5A.21(R) stated that The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment, 
and the steps that the firm must take to satisfy the requirement that the assessment is a 
reasonable one, based on sufficient information, are dependent upon, and proportionate to, 
the individual circumstances of each case.And CONC 5.5A.22(G) stated that  When considering, having regard to the factors in
CONC 5.5A.21R, what steps the firm needs to undertake to make the creditworthiness 
assessment a reasonable one, the firm should consider whether the factors point towards a 
more or less rigorous assessment. Certain factors may point towards a more rigorous 
assessment and others towards a less rigorous one in which case the firm should weigh up 
the factors before deciding what type of creditworthiness assessment is required.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Let me start by saying that Im sorry to hear that things have not been easy for Mr H. I 
appreciate his strength of feeling on this matter and can understand why he feels that
Money Shop shouldnt have agreed to lend to him. Ive carefully considered all the 
arguments, evidence and information provided in the context of his case. Having done so, I 
am not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for him and I 
hope my explanation below makes it clear why Ive come to this conclusion.  
Money Shop says it asked Mr H for information about his regular income and expenses 
when he applied for a loan. The lender recorded his monthly income as £1,845 and his 
monthly expenses, including debt repayments, as £1,035.  Money Shop also said that it 
used information from a third party credit reference agency. It hasnt provided the results of 
this check but it has provided a summary which states that, on application, Mr H had some 
outstanding debt. 
Money Shop acknowledges that Mr H had two county court judgements when he applied for 
his loan: one for an amount of £665 from 2014 and one for £441 from mid-2016. However, 
Money Shop says that these judgements wouldnt have resulted in it declining to lend to
Mr H. Having considered this carefully, I agree. I dont think its likely that Money Shop would 
have made a different decision given the age of the judgements and the amounts involved, 
even assuming it knew about these at the time. 
I think the assessment Money Shop carried out here was in proportion to the circumstances. 
Mr H didnt have a previous borrowing relationship with the lender that it ought to have taken 
into account. The loan repayments didnt take up such a significant proportion of his monthly 
income that makes me think this alone might render the lending irresponsible  Mr H had 
told Money Shop that his income was £1,845 a month and the loan repayments were around 
£49. It seems from the information he gave Money Shop about his expenses that he had 
enough disposable income to sustainably meet his repayments each month. And Money 
Shop didnt find anything in the information it did have to decline his loan or prompt further 
checks.Mr H has told this Service that he was not in a good position financially when he applied to 
Money Shop for his loan, and hes provided a copy of his credit file. I can see from this that 
hed been borrowing from high cost lenders for some time before taking out the loan and that 
he had several recent loans outstanding. 
I have borne in mind that the information someone might see when they request a copy of 
their credit file might be different to information from a credit reference agency seen by a 
lender. A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file or some data might be 
missing or anonymised. The data might not be up to date, or the lender may not have 
requested all of the available data from the credit reference agency. 
In some cases I might think that a lender ought to have taken further steps to understand the 
full extent of a borrowers financial situation before agreeing credit, irrespective of the 
information theyve provided. But, given the particulars of this loan and what Money Shop 
knew about Mr Hs circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable of it to lend on this 
occasion. And so I am not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint and I dont make any 
award against The One Stop Money Shop Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9July2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman