DRN-4408365
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim he made under his 
commercial (landlords) insurance policy, following an ingress of water.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them in full 
detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr K is the landlord of a building comprised of a 
commercial unit and some flats. A claim was made for water damage to the commercial unit, 
and AXA appointed contractors to repair the damage in January 2023.
AXAs appointed contractor mistakenly began decoration works in one of the flats, instead of 
the commercial unit. After the mistake was realised, the contractor abandoned the work in 
the flat and completed the work in the commercial unit. 
Mr K complains that his tenant was left with an incorrectly, half-decorated kitchen, and that 
neither AXA nor its agents contacted him to make him aware of the mistake or to offer to put 
it right. He says his tenant moved out because of this issue, causing a loss of rent, and that 
he had to pay out of his own pocket to put things right. He wants AXA to cover his losses.
AXA says it wasnt made aware of the issue until Mr K complained in March 2023. It says 
Mr K was aware of the issue from the outset as it was him who stopped the contractor 
painting the wrong flat. It also says Mr K signed a satisfaction note for the works to the 
commercial unit. However, AXA accepts a mistake was made and has offered to have the 
contractor come out to put things right free of charge. It also offered Mr K £50 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by its error.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ks claim should be upheld. She said AXA wasnt made 
aware of the issue until Mr K complained and that once aware, it had offered reasonable 
compensation. She didnt think AXA needed to reimburse Mr Ks costs, as he decided to 
carry out the repairs outside of his insurance contract.
Mr K didnt accept our investigators findings. So, as no agreement had been reached, the 
complaint was been passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. So I issued a provisional 
decision setting out my thoughts and inviting further comments or evidence before I reached 
my final decision. Heres what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. So, Im 
issuing a provisional decision, to give the parties the opportunity to respond, before I 
reach my final decision. 
Notification and the cost of repairs
Mr K complains that he wasnt made aware of the issue by AXA or its agents, and so 
couldnt have taken any action to put things right for his tenant. But AXA says he was 
aware and signed a satisfaction note.
Ive seen a copy of the satisfaction note, and can confirm that this was signed by 
someone other than Mr K. I queried this persons name with Mr K, and he confirmed 
that he is the tenant of the commercial unit. Based on this, and considering the 
evidence of all the correspondence between the parties, Im persuaded that Mr K 
was not made aware of the issue at the time, and so couldnt have acted any sooner 
to notify or complain to AXA. 
AXA says it wasnt made aware of the issue until Mr K raised his complaint, and I 
have no reason to doubt what it says here. But unlike Mr Ks situation, AXAs 
contractor was its agent, as far as the contract of insurance is concerned, and 
therefore was an extension of AXA. So, the fact AXA wasnt told about the issue by 
its contractor doesnt absolve it of responsibility for the time which elapsed before an 
offer of redress was made or the impact of the lack of communication with Mr K.
Had everything happened as it should have done, Mr K (as the policyholder) would 
have been notified about the issue when it happened, and the offer to send the 
contractor to put things right would have been made straight away. But because this 
didnt happen, AXA didnt make the offer to put things right until April 2023, several 
months after the incident. And after Mr K had, reasonably in my view, already paid 
out of his own pocket to put things right. So, in these circumstances, I consider it 
would be fair and reasonable for AXA to cover the costs incurred by Mr K in putting 
right the issues caused to the flat by its contractor. I say this because Mr K wouldnt 
have needed to incur these costs had AXA (by extension of its agents) done 
everything it ought to have done to bring it to his attention and put things right at the 
time of the incident.
Mr K has provided a copy of his contractors invoice for the redecoration of the flat in 
question. So, unless anything provided in response to this provisional decision 
changes my mind, Im intending to direct AXA to consider Mr Ks quote for 
redecoration and reimburse him for the works required as a result of its contractors 
mistake. 
Im also intending to award 8% simple interest on the amount due to Mr K from the 
date he was out of pocket to the date he is reimbursed. This is to compensate Mr K 
for being deprived of funds he would otherwise have had available for other 
purposes.
Loss of rent and compensation
Mr K has provided evidence from his property management company stating that the 
tenant of the flat in question gave notice because she was dissatisfied with his 
handling of the redecoration works to the flat. Mr K says that if AXA had dealt with 
the situation properly, this wouldnt have happened. He says he was without a tenant 
between February 2023 and May 2023 as a result.Ive thought carefully about Mr Ks arguments here. But from what Ive seen, his 
tenant didnt give notice until early March 2023 and wasnt due to vacate until mid-
May 2023, presumably due to their notice period. So, although the tenant may have 
physically vacated sooner, I cant see that Mr K will have actually experienced a loss 
of rent between February and May 2023. And crucially, I havent seen any evidence 
to support Mr K lost out on any rent payments either. So, based on what Ive 
currently seen, Im not minded to make any award for loss of rent.
However, should Mr K be able to provide evidence that he did suffer a loss of rent, he 
should provide that in response to this provisional decision, and Ill consider this 
further.
That said, regardless of any actual loss of rent, the loss of a tenant as a result of 
AXAs error would have been understandably distressing. And the effort required to 
arrange repairs as well as to find and secure a new tenant would have been 
undoubtably inconvenient. So, taking this into account, I dont think AXAs offer of 
£50 compensation goes far enough to put things right.
Instead, considering the impact to Mr K of the initial issue, the subsequent 
communication issues, and the consequential impact of his tenant deciding to vacate 
due to these issues, Im currently minded to decide that AXA should increase the 
compensation due to Mr K to £500.
I asked both sides to provide any further comments or evidence they wanted me to consider 
within two weeks.
Mr K responded to confirm he was happy with my provisional conclusions and didnt have 
anything to add.
AXA responded with additional comments to explain why it disagreed with my provisional 
conclusions. To summarise, it said:
Mr Ks tenant vacated, and repairs were completed, before it was notified about the 
complaint.
Because Mr K carried out repairs before notifying AXA, it hasnt had a reasonable 
opportunity to put things right. Had it been told about the issue in February 2023, it 
would have instructed the contractor to complete the works then.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, my 
provisional conclusions remain unchanged. Ill explain why.
I accept AXAs argument that had it been made aware of the issues in February 2023 that it 
likely would have instructed repairs sooner. But as I explained in my provisional decision, I 
think the fact AXA wasnt made aware of the issue sooner is more a result of its contractors 
poor handling of things, rather than because of anything Mr K did wrong. 
Given that the property had been left in a half-painted state for several weeks, and his tenant 
was clearly unhappy, I dont think it was unreasonable of Mr K to move straight to remedial 
works in the hopes of appeasing his tenant. As Ive said, ultimately, AXA ought to have known about the issue from the outset as its 
contractor should have notified it. And as the contractor was acting as AXAs agent, AXA is 
responsible for the fact this didnt happen. So, I remain of the view that AXA needs to 
consider Mr Ks quote and reimburse the costs he incurred for putting right the damage 
caused by its contractor.
Ive not received any further comments or evidence about my provisional findings on Mr Ks 
alleged loss of rent or on the level of compensation I recommended. So, in the absence of 
further comments or evidence, my conclusions on these points remain the same as outlined 
in my provisional decision  and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ks 
complaint in part. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc must:
Consider Mr Ks invoice for the redecoration of the flat in question and reimburse the 
costs he incurred for putting right the damage caused by its contractor.
To the above, add 8% simple interest* from the date Mr K was out of pocket to the 
date he is reimbursed.
Pay Mr K £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman