DRN-1742156
The complaint
Mr S is a director of a limited company that I'll refer to as F. Mr S has complained on F's 
behalf that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) turned down a claim under the 
business interruption section of his business combined insurance policy. 
Mr S has been helped in making his claim by his broker. But, for ease of reading, I'll refer to 
all actions and comments as being those of Mr S. 
What happened
Mr S reported a claim to RSA on 7 November 2019 via his broker. He said a car had 
crashed into a sign and a wall outside his hotel which had caused large stones and debris to 
hit the building. He said this led to broken windows and damage in some of the rooms. He 
claimed for this damage but also said he'd noticed cracking around the doorway. He said as 
this entrance was used as a fire exit he'd needed to close the hotel in order to ensure it was 
safe. Mr S' broker asked RSA to instruct a structural engineer to inspect the damage. 
RSA instructed a building repair surveyor who visited the hotel on 13 November. The 
surveyor said a structural engineer was needed instead. RSA arranged for a loss adjuster to 
visit the hotel on 22 November. The loss adjuster said the cracks were historic in nature and 
not caused by the car accident. But as Mr S remained concerned he agreed that                
Mr S should appoint a structural engineer and recommended one to him.
Mr S appointed the structural engineer who visited the hotel on 25 November. He thought 
that some cracking was new and might be due to the car accident. He recommended works 
to repair the damage which Mr S carried out. Mr S opened the hotel on 19 December after 
completing the works. 
RSA continued to look into the claim and ultimately appointed an engineer. The 
engineer concluded that the cracking was historic and not caused by the impact of the car. 
RSA agreed to pay for the damage it thought was caused by the car accident but turned 
down Mr S' claim for business interruption. It said the policy provides cover for business 
interruption caused by insured damage. And as the hotel hadn't been closed due to insured 
damage, the resulting business interruption claim wasn't covered. 
Mr S was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. He said his policy required him 
to take steps to ensure that the hotel was safe. He said he knew there were cracks 
around the door but thought these had been made worse by the accident. He said RSA had 
caused delays in appointing a structural engineer and he hadn't been able to open the hotel 
until he knew it was safe to do so. 
Our investigator looked into Mr S' complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He thought 
Mr S had closed his hotel in the reasonable belief that the car had caused further damage to 
the doorway. He thought RSA had delayed in appointing an expert to inspect the damage 
and Mr S had needed to appoint a structural engineer himself. That meant the hotel had 
remained closed for longer than it should have been. He thought this had caused Mr S a 
financial loss and recommended RSA pay Mr S' business interruption claim between 7 November and 19 December, plus 8% interest, to put things right. He also recommended 
RSA pay 8% interest on the property damage it had agreed to pay for, due to the delay in 
paying the claim. 
RSA agreed to pay interest on the property damage claim as it accepted it had caused some 
delay in appointing an expert. But said the loss adjuster was an appropriate expert because 
he had qualifications that put him on the path to being a structural engineer. And in any 
event, a structural engineer wasn't necessary, it was the broker who had initially requested 
this when it wasn't needed. It said the policy only provides business interruption cover for 
insured events. And as the cracking wasn't covered under the policy then the hotel 
wasn't closed due to an insured event. RSA also said Mr S knew about the cracking years 
previous to the claim, so he knew it wasn't caused by the accident. It said it was for Mr S to 
take reasonable steps to prevent or minimise the damage and to put things right as soon as 
is practical. As RSA disagreed, it asked for an ombudsman's decision. 
I contacted RSA and Mr S, through the investigator, to say that I intended to reach a different 
outcome to our investigator. I said that I accepted F's policy only covers it for business 
interruption as a result of an insured event; and that the cracking around the doorway wasn't 
caused by the accident and therefore not covered by the policy, even if Mr S reasonably 
thought it might be. That meant I only intended to require RSA to pay the business 
interruption claim for the rooms closed by damage caused in the accident between the date 
Mr S closed the hotel (7 November) and the date RSA should reasonably have told him what 
damage was caused by the accident. I thought 15 November was fair and reasonable for 
this as it was two days after the surveyor attended. However, I also said that it was 
RSA's delays in handling the claim that had ultimately caused the hotel to be closed until it 
reopened on 19 December. So, I intended to require RSA to pay the business interruption 
claim for the closure of the whole hotel between when he should have been able to re-open 
and when it re-opened on 19 December.
Mr S responded to say he'd only closed the hotel as he was required to minimise the risk to 
others. So, he thought RSA should pay the full claim for the whole period the hotel was 
closed. RSA reiterated that it the photos showed cracking from before the accident, so Mr S 
should have been aware of it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the policy cover F for business interruption as a result of 
damage to the insured building by a motor vehicle. The policy also requires F to take steps 
to minimise damage and loss, as well as injury to employees or the public.
Following the findings contained within the experts reports, it doesn't now seem to be 
disputed that the cracking around the doorway was historic and that it wasnt made worse by 
the car crashing into the hotel. So, under the strict application of the policy terms Mr S is only 
covered for the loss from the interruption caused by the damage to the windows and rooms 
caused by the car accident. And the loss as a result of these is the loss of income from not 
being able to use these rooms until the damage to them and the windows had been 
repaired. 
However, I'm also required to look at what's fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and 
that includes considering how RSA's actions contributed to F's losses. Most of the period the hotel was closed the hotel was due to damage that wasn't covered by 
the policy, ie the cracking around the doorway. Mr S explained that he knew there was some 
cracking prior to the car crashing into the hotel, but thought the impact from the stones and 
debris had made it worse. He said he wanted to ensure the safety of his guests and 
the policy required him to take steps to prevent any further damage or losses. I'm persuaded 
by his explanation of this, as he's said that he feels he would have been held accountable if 
there had been any further damage or injuries as a result of him not having closed the hotel. 
So I can see why he kept the hotel closed.
I think RSA caused a delay in Mr S reopening the hotel. I say this because RSA accepted 
that it shouldn't have instructed the surveyor in the first instance. That means it took much 
longer for an appropriate expert to visit Mr S' hotel. And during this period the hotel remained 
closed. 
I appreciate that it was the broker who initially requested a structural engineer, but the 
surveyor RSA instructed also asked that an engineer attend instead. So, I can understand 
why Mr S then expected a structural engineer to be appointed and lacked confidence when 
RSA appointed a loss adjuster. I accept that the loss adjuster seems in this case to have 
come to the same conclusion as the engineer and he has qualifications that put him on the 
path to be an engineer. But I can understand Mr S' concerns given that RSA had already 
instructed the wrong expert once and the surveyor and the broker both said a structural 
engineer was needed to assess the damage.
It seems that the loss adjuster's conclusion that the cracking was historic was most likely 
correct. However, rather than RSA turning Mr S' claim down for the doorway at that point, 
the loss adjuster agreed that Mr S could appoint a structural engineer to put his mind at rest. 
I think this gave Mr S the impression that it was appropriate for his hotel to remain closed 
while that happened. And I can't see that RSA told Mr S that the hotel was safe to open. As 
RSA agreed for Mr S to appoint a structural engineer as the next step, rather than assessing 
his claim, I think it caused a further delay and meant the hotel remained closed until that 
engineer had visited and provided their report.
RSA has said Mr S didn't take steps to appoint an engineer until he agreed to do so with the 
loss adjuster. But he was reasonably under the impression that RSA was going to do that, so 
he didn't think he needed to. And he appointed a structural engineer within three days 
of RSA suggesting he could. So, I think it was RSA's actions that led to Mr S not 
appointing one sooner. 
I understand the loss adjuster also suggested an engineer Mr S could use. This engineer 
provided a report on 28 November which said the car accident could have made the 
cracking worse. I can see from the timeline he's provided, that Mr S sent this report to the 
loss adjuster along with costings for repairs on the same day he received it. He then chased 
both the loss adjuster and RSA for a response on 5 December, as he hadn't received an 
update and did so again on 10 December. I think RSA not responding here caused further 
delays while Mr S waited to find out if it would agree the cost of repairs.
While chasing RSA and the loss adjuster for an update on his claim, Mr S had the repairs to 
the hotel completed. He re-opened the hotel on 19 December. RSA continued to look into 
the claim and appointed a forensic engineer to provide another opinion. It received that 
engineer's report at the end of January 2020. 
It seems to me that RSA should have appointed a structural engineer much sooner than it 
did, as recommended by its surveyor. And I think it should have appointed one at the outset, 
rather than appointing a surveyor and then a loss adjuster. Or if it felt the loss adjuster was 
appropriate it should have given Mr S a decision based on that loss adjuster's report, rather than the loss adjuster agreeing Mr S could appoint an engineer as the next step. If RSA had 
done that it would have been able to give Mr S an answer to his claim much sooner and told 
him it was safe to open the hotel. In wrongly appointing a surveyor in the first instance and 
then its loss adjuster agreeing to Mr S appointing his own engineer RSA caused delays. The 
result of those delays was that Mr S' hotel remained closed for longer than was necessary. 
Ive considered RSAs point about the photos showing cracks before Mr S claim. However, 
its not disputed that there was some cracking before the car crashed into the wall, only that 
the accident made things worse. So, the photos dont persuade me that RSA doesnt need to 
compensate Mr S for the delays it caused.
Putting things right
So, while I accept the policy terms don't cover F's claim for business interruption caused by 
the cracks to the doorway, I do think Mr S experienced a loss due to the delay in him being 
told this wasnt covered and that his hotel was safe to open. And I think RSA should 
compensate him for that. To decide how to put things right, I've thought about what should 
have happened. 
If RSA had appointed an engineer straight away I think it would have told Mr S, on or around 
15 November, that only the damage to the windows and rooms was covered by his policy. 
And that means it would have told him that only the business interruption claim relating to 
this was covered. I think 15 November is a fair and reasonable date to use as it's two days 
after the surveyor visited. Mr S then could have re-opened his hotel and got the repairs to it 
carried out. As this is covered by the policy, RSA should pay F's business interruption claim 
for losses arising from the damage to the windows and rooms from 7 November up to and 
including 15 November.
However, RSA then caused a delay in the hotel reopening which meant Mr S' hotel was 
closed when it shouldn't have been. To compensate him for that I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for RSA to also pay the amount due for the business interruption claim 
arising the closure of the hotel from 16 November until the hotel reopened on 19 December. 
As F's been without money it should have had, RSA should add 8% simple interest to the 
amount it pays in the business interruption claim from 19 December to the date it makes 
payment. I think this is a fair and reasonable date to use because - if things had happened 
as they should - by that date RSA would have paid the claim for the damaged rooms and F 
would have taken the money it would have done during the period the hotel should have 
reopened. 
RSA has agreed to pay 8% simple interest on the material damage claim, so I'm not going to 
comment on that further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Royal and Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to pay:
F's business interruption claim arising from the damage to the windows and 
rooms between 7 November 2019 up to and including 15 November 2019, subject to 
the remaining terms of the policy;
F's business interruption claim arising from the closure of the hotel from 
16 November 2019 until the hotel reopened on 19 December 2019 subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy.F interest on the business interruption settlement at 8% simple per year from 19 
December 2019 to the date it makes payment;
F interest on the amount it's paid for damage at 8% simple per year from the date of 
the claim to the date it makes payment. 
 
If Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell F how much its taken off. It 
should also give F a certificate showing this if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman