DRN-2104805
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy with the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has offered 
following it sending a replacement bank card and some other correspondence to an old 
address.
What happened
In March 2020, Ms F after returning from abroad, tried to use her Lloyds debit card for a 
purchase. The payment was declined as the card was out of date. Ms F went into a branch 
to enquire why she hadnt been sent a replacement card. It was discovered that the 
replacement card had been sent to an old address that Ms F hadnt lived at for nine years. 
Ms F was told that the address had been changed internally in July 2019.
A branch manager raised a complaint on Ms Fs behalf and cancelled the debit card that had 
been sent to the wrong address. 
Lloyds then contacted Ms F, admitted there had been a system error and Ms Fs old address 
had been pulled through incorrectly as her current address. Lloyds offered Ms F £200 
compensation for the error.
Ms F didnt accept the compensation as she didnt think it reflected the seriousness of the 
error and that her card could have been used for fraudulent purposes  especially as Ms F 
had a significant amount in her current account. Ms F also reviewed her other accounts and 
said she hadnt been receiving communication from Lloyds. 
Lloyds updated its offer of compensation to Ms F to £350.
Ms F remained unhappy with the amount offered and referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked in to the complaint and thought Lloyds offer of 
compensation was fair. Ms F thought because Lloyds acknowledged it had made an error 
and because of the severity of what could have happened Lloyds should pay more in 
compensation. Ms F considers Lloyds, at the very least, should pay £500.
As Ms F disagreed with the investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered whats happened, I think Lloyds offer of compensation is fair. Ill 
explain why.
Every now and then, things can and do go wrong. When a business does something wrong 
or an error occurs, Id expect it to put things right quickly and offer compensation if a 
consumer has been caused any distress or inconvenience by the error.
In this case, when Ms F made Lloyds aware that she hadnt received the replacement bank 
card and it was identified that it had been sent to an old address, Lloyds acted quickly to put 
things right. It cancelled the replacement card, so it couldnt be used, and amended Ms Fs 
address on its systems.
Lloyds also offered £350  for the distress and inconvenience it caused to Ms F.
Ms F says that her current account had a considerable amount of money in it at that time 
and had the replacement card fallen into the wrong hands it could have been used 
fraudulently  which could have had a massive impact on her. Ms F thinks the seriousness 
of the error isnt reflected in Lloyds award of compensation.
I understand Ms Fs point. It certainly would have been distressing for Ms F to find out that 
the replacement card was sent to her old address  especially in light of what she has said 
about her current account at that time. And had Ms Fs replacement card been used 
fraudulently then it could have caused significant problems and worry for Ms F.
But had Ms Fs card been used fraudulently then that would be something that Lloyds would 
have had to consider when putting things right for Ms F, and it is something that I would 
have considered within this decision. But, and importantly, Ms Fs replacement card wasnt 
activated or used fraudulently
When I make a compensation award, it is as a result of something that has happened. I 
wont award compensation for something that could have happened but didnt.
So in this case, I am satisfied Lloyds put things right quickly and its offer of £350 
compensation is fair for the error it made regarding Ms Fs address and the distress and 
inconvenience this caused Ms F.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, the compensation amount of £350 offered by 
Lloyds Bank PLC is fair. I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay this compensation to Ms F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman