DRN-3083499
The complaint
Mr Cs complained about the way XL Insurance Company SE (XL) have handled the claim 
he made on a jewellery insurance policy.
What happened
In early 2019, Mr C was planning to propose to his partner.  So he bought an engagement 
ring.  He also bought a pendant as a gift for his partner.  And he bought a one year 
insurance policy, covering both items in the event of loss or damage. 
Several months later, Mr C decided to get the items cleaned.  When he collected them, he 
says he put them in another bag and took them home.  But, when he looked, he couldnt find 
them.  So he made a claim on the policy for their loss.
XL investigated his claim and issued him with vouchers to replace the ring and pendant with 
exact replacements.  But, by this time, Mr C and his partner had separated - so he didnt 
need the items replaced.  He asked either for a cash alternative, or the option to use the 
vouchers to buy other items.  XL refused, as the policy terms provided for an exact 
replacement or  if one were no longer available  a similar item.
Mr C complained.  XL investigated his complaint and rejected it.  They wrote to Mr C 
explaining the policy provided like for like replacement and specifically stated no cash 
alternative would be provided.  But XL did recognise the voucher theyd provided had 
expired and so extended it to allow Mr C to use it.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with XLs response and brought his complaint to us.  Our investigator 
considered it and concluded XL didnt need to do anything more to resolve the complaint.  
They reviewed the policy terms and conditions and said XL had complied with them.  So  
even though Mr C no longer had any use for replacement items  XL had dealt with the 
claim fairly.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Im sorry about the situation Mr Cs found himself in.  I understand why, in his current 
circumstances, he doesnt want another engagement ring and pendant.  But, as our 
investigator explained, the purpose of the policy is to indemnify the policyholder  that is, to 
put Mr C back into the same position as if the items hadnt been lost.  Our role is to see 
whether XL have done that  and whether the policy terms and conditions made it clear how 
a claim would be handled.
Ive read the policy terms.  The relevant sections are general conditions 8(b) and 8(c), which 
say:
(b) if the insured item cannot be repaired the basis of settlement will be with an exact 
replacement;
(c) in the event that any insured item cannot be replaced with an exact replacement the 
insurer's liability is restricted to the amount necessary to purchase a similar item from 
[jeweller];
And condition 10(f) clarifies the position further:
(f) there will be no cash alternative in the event of a valid claim.
Im satisfied that these set out clearly how any claim would be settled.
And Im satisfied that XL have settled the claim in line with those terms.  Theyve provided  
Mr C with vouchers to replace the lost items.  And theyve extended their validity, so Mr C 
can still use the vouchers if he now decides to.  XL have confirmed theyll remain valid for 
three months from 1 October 2021.
While I appreciate Mr C doesnt want replacements, thats what the policy provides.  I dont 
think the change in his circumstances makes the policy terms unfair  or means that XL 
should do anything differently to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about XL Insurance 
Company SE. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman