DRN-3597780
The complaint
X complains about the impact of an incorrect record on their credit file which was added by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
X was in the process of buying a property. They say the sale fell through because 
Barclays had incorrectly logged a negative marker on their credit file.
X was able to complete the property sale at a later date once Barclays rectified its 
mistake. But in the meantime, the value of the property had increased. And X 
incurred additional costs, including negotiating with the seller, and accessing their 
credit file.
 
X complained to Barclays and asked for compensation. In summary, they asked for 
Barclays to refund:
oThe retainer they paid the seller, to hold off pulling out of the sale (£2,000).
oThe difference in purchase price between their original accepted offer and 
what they ended up paying to complete the sale (£10,000).
oThe Stamp Duty now payable because of missing the original deadline 
(£3,000).
oThe additional amount of deposit theyd been required to provide (£1,500).
oThe fees for accessing their credit file (£29.98).
Barclays partially upheld Xs complaint. It offered to refund the Stamp Duty (subject 
to proof of payment) and credit file fees and offered £700 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused (totalling £3,729.98). But it didnt refund any 
further fees associated with the property sale, as it said it was Xs choice to proceed 
with the purchase.
X didnt agree with Barclays response and referred the complaint to our service. 
Barclays said it believed the complaint was outside of our services jurisdiction 
because X referred the complaint too late following its final response letter in October 
2021.
Our investigator told Barclays that X let our service know of their intention to refer 
their complaint in December 2021. So, they had referred it in time for us to consider. 
Barclays didnt respond, so our investigator proceeded to investigate the complaint. 
Our investigator concluded that Barclays needed to do more to put things right. They 
concluded Barclays needed to pay 8% simple interest on the stamp duty and credit 
file fees. And they concluded Barclays should reimburse X the £10,000 difference in 
purchase price as they were persuaded that but for Barclays error, X had shown 
they couldve purchased the property for £10,000 less.
X accepted our investigators findings. Barclays didnt respond, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Barclays error has impacted X here. And I acknowledge it has 
already offered to reimburse some of Xs costs to try and put things right.
With regard to the Stamp Duty and credit file fees, its clear that subject to proof of 
payment, X has been deprived of the use of these funds. So, I find it would be 
reasonable for Barclays to add 8% simple interest to these payments in line with our 
services general approach. And this should be from the date X made each of the 
payments, to the date of settlement.
Ive considered the impact of Barclays error and I find its offer of £700 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Xs retainer isnt a loss that I can directly link to Barclays mistake. So, I wont be 
asking it to reimburse X for this. And Im not persuaded X has lost out through the 
increased deposit as this ultimately forms part of the propertys equity now.
However, I am persuaded that Barclays error did have a direct impact on Xs ability 
to purchase the property for a lower value. I say this because Xs evidence clearly 
shows that it was more likely than not, they would have been able to buy the property 
for £10,000 less, had the error on their credit file not caused the sale to initially fall 
through. X has shown evidence their lower offer had been accepted, subject to 
contract. So, I find Barclays error has sufficient causation for X ultimately paying 
more for the same property they always intended to buy.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Xs complaint, 
Barclays Bank UK PLC must:
Pay X £10,000 for the difference in the property purchase price.
Pay X 8% simple interest on the Stamp Duty and Credit reference fees, subject to 
proof of payment. This must be paid from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Pay X £700 compensation for the distress and inconvenience if Barclays has not 
done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman