DRN-3714606
The complaint
Ms P is complaining about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) giving her 
incorrect information about her account which led to her making an unnecessary visit 
to a branch, which affected her health.
What happened
Ms P has a cash account and a current account with Halifax. The cash account doesnt 
allow an agreed overdraft facility.
Ms P has a chronic health condition which affects her mobility.
In January 2022 Ms P raised a chargeback claim for a payment shed made from her cash 
account. The refund was credited to her account, and Halifax told Ms P it may be re-
debited, but theyd let her know before it was.
On 24 January 2022 the chargeback refund was re-debited from Ms Ps cash account. 
This led to Ms Ps account becoming overdrawn by around £82.
On the same day Ms P spoke to an adviser from Halifaxs specialist support team (SST). 
She explained what had happened and that it had caused her financial difficulties. She 
said she had a young baby and needed access to money to care for her. The SST 
adviser agreed a temporary overdraft limit of £90 for Ms Ps cash account, to be repaid at 
£45 per month over the following two months. He told Ms P shed have access to the £90 
overdraft amount if she visited the branch to withdraw money. He also said hed add a 
note to Ms Ps account to say that the branch staff should allow her to withdraw funds 
even though her account was overdrawn.
Ms P walked to her local branch with her baby, which she says took about forty minutes. 
When she arrived the notes from the adviser shed spoken to earlier about the 
repayment arrangement werent visible to the branch staff. They didnt allow her to make 
a withdrawal, because they said there were no available funds in the account.
Ms P says she waited in the branch for around an hour and a half and was treated badly 
by a member of staff there, who spoke to her rudely and kept her waiting. She called the 
complaints department while she was in the branch, and they apologised. They arranged 
to pay Ms P £75 in compensation, along with covering the cost of her calls. These funds 
were paid into Ms Ps other account with Halifax (which was at its agreed overdraft limit 
at the time) and she was able to access them on that day.
Ms P complained about what had happened. She said she wasnt aware that the 
chargeback was going to be re-debited, which led to her being left with no funds for her 
and her babys needs. She said the walk to the branch had made her health condition 
worse, and she was still suffering from the effects. Shed like Halifax to pay her 
substantially more compensation.
Our investigator thought the compensation Halifax had already paid to Ms P was fair. But 
Ms P didnt agree, so her complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 7 September 2022. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Halifax need to do more to put things right here. Ill explain why.
Ms P says she didnt receive notice of the chargeback refund being debited from her 
account. Halifax says a letter was sent to her address around eleven days before the 
amount was re-debited, and Ive seen evidence the letter was sent to Ms P on this day. 
So, while I appreciate Ms P didnt receive the letter until after the refund had been re-
debited from her account, Im satisfied Halifax did what they needed to to let her know 
about it in advance.
As Ive said, Ms P suffers from a chronic condition which can affect her mobility. She 
mentioned this to the adviser she spoke to in the SST at the beginning of her call with him. 
But when the adviser said shed need to go into the branch to withdraw funds, Ms P said 
that would be fine. So, I wouldnt necessarily have expected the adviser to have explored 
any other options for Ms P to access funds at this point. But I would have expected him to 
have taken care to give her the correct advice about the options available to her.
Having listened to the call, I dont think the SST adviser gave Ms P the correct 
information about accessing emergency funds. He told her she could withdraw the £90 
overdraft limit from her account through the branch for her immediate needs. But the 
account was already overdrawn by around £82, so this advice wasnt correct. The 
maximum that would have been available to Ms P was around £8, the difference 
between the overdrawn balance of £82 and the overdraft limit of £90. But this isnt how 
the SST adviser explained it to her. The SST adviser was aware that Ms P was in a 
vulnerable position and she was clearly upset when she spoke to him. I think he should 
have taken more care to give Ms P correct advice about what was available to her before 
telling her to visit the branch to withdraw emergency funds.
It seems clear a mistake was made here, which led to Ms P making an unnecessary visit 
to the branch - because she needed emergency funds and shed been told, incorrectly, 
she could withdraw up to £90. So I can understand why she was upset, and thought the 
branch staff werent helping her, when she couldnt withdraw funds from the branch as 
shed been told.
Im pleased to see Halifax acted promptly when Ms P called them from the branch, and 
paid her £75 in compensation for what happened, along with £17 to cover the cost of her 
calls  which allowed her to access funds on the same day. But I need to consider if the 
compensation they paid her is fair. Ive thought carefully about this, and overall I dont 
think it is.
I know that Ms P feels she was discriminated against due to her medical condition. I can 
understand why she might feel this way, and Id like to reassure her that Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Halifax have discriminated against her. But I cant make a legal 
finding about whether discrimination has taken place  that would be for a court to 
decide. I can only consider whether Halifax have acted fairly and reasonably, and I dont 
think they have here from what Ive seen so far.
Im sorry to learn the visit to the branch affected Ms Ps health, but Im also taking into account that at the time she said it would be fine for her to visit the branch, so I dont think 
it would be reasonable to find Halifax responsible for this. But I do think the whole 
experience was upsetting and inconvenient for Ms P, more so due to the difficult 
circumstances she was in at the time, and I think Halifax should pay more compensation 
to reflect this.
Ive thought carefully about the impact this has had on Ms P. And taking everything into 
account, I think total compensation of £200 is fair, reasonable and in line with awards 
weve made in similar circumstances. Halifax have already paid Ms P £75, so I think they 
should pay Ms P another £125.
Halifax replied to say they accepted my provisional decision. 
Ms P also replied to say she accepted the provisional decision  but she added that if 
shed known what would have happened she wouldnt have visited the branch, and only 
said she would because she needed the money for essentials. She also explained that 
Halifax was sending her correspondence which was causing her anxiety, and the 
investigator explained this could be dealt with as a new complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that the visit to the branch was difficult for Ms P, but as Ive explained in my 
provisional decision, because she didnt say that this would cause her difficulty during the 
conversation where it was arranged I dont think Halifax were given the opportunity to 
explore other options at that point. So I still dont think it would be reasonable to find Halifax 
responsible for the effect Ms P says the visit to the branch had on her health. But I have 
taken her circumstances into account when deciding on a compensation award here.
Although Im sorry to disappoint Ms P, overall I still think total compensation of £200 is fair 
and reasonable. So Halifax should pay Ms P another £125.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
should pay Ms P £125.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman