DRN-3877813
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the service provided by Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
under his landlords home emergency policy. Mr F was unhappy about being charged for a 
contractor to be called out, and the lack of temporary or permanent repair being offered.
For ease Ill refer to any RSA appointed parties or representatives as RSA in the decision.
What happened
Mr F made a claim due to issues with the electricity failing in his rental property. Mr F told 
RSA that whenever the oven was turned on the electrics for the whole house would trip. 
RSA agreed to send out a contractor, but it reserved its position about whether cover under 
the policy would apply. It said it would need to reserve funds (£99) from Mr Fs bank account 
in relation to the call out charge. RSA said if the problem was solely down to the oven then 
policy cover wouldnt apply. It said if the fault was with the electrics Mr F would be covered 
for a temporary repair.
Once the visit had been completed the contractor said the oven was the cause of the 
problem. RSA said to Mr F if the oven wasnt used there wouldnt be any issues with the 
electrics, and this would county as a temporary repair. It also took the reserved £99 from Mr 
Fs account for the contractor call out charge as it said this wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr F said this was covered by his policy and he should never have been charged for the 
contractor. Unhappy with the outcome he brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He didnt think Mr F was entitled to the cost of 
a replacement oven as hed requested. Mr F had bought the new oven as he said that was 
the most economical repair option. Our investigator said the terms and conditions didnt 
require RSA to pay for this. But he did feel there had been upset caused by RSA taking the 
£99 charge and not agreeing to refund this earlier. For the distress and inconvenience 
caused he said RSA should pay £100 in compensation to Mr F.
Mr F didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. At this 
stage Mr F said his complaint was about RSA not offering a temporary repair. He said being 
told, at the time, by an unqualified RSA customer service advisor to turn off the oven without 
any inspection wasnt an appropriate temporary repair. He said at that stage the fault was 
unknown. Mr F said this was why he replaced the oven. Our investigator responded noting 
that originally Mr F said he was unhappy about the £99 charge. He also noted the policy 
terms and conditions defined a temporary repair as a resolution or repair which resolves an 
emergency. Our investigator said with the oven turned off the electricity didnt fail and ended 
the emergency in line with the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Ive paid particular attention to Mr Fs complaint form and his 
two final responses from RSA. Theres lots of details on the complaint form. Mr F said he 
would like the £199 for the new oven as the most economical and feasible method of 
repair. Mr F also said, "completing a temporary resolution or repair (or a permanent repair)" 
should have been carried out to the oven. He said he was unhappy about being charged for 
the call out. And wants compensation for the 4545upset experienced.
The two final responses from RSA refer to a couple of issues:
The first final response talks about Dissatisfied that reserved funds were processed and 
the second one refers to Dissatisfied that the cost of a new oven would not be reimbursed 
as a repair to the reported Home Emergency.
In the first final response RSA accepted that it shouldnt have taken the contractor charge 
(£99) from Mr Fs bank account. It said the policy does not state that we will not cover a 
failure of electrics that is caused by an appliance. It apologised and arranged for the £99 to 
be returned to Mr Fs bank account. It felt delay wise compensation wasnt required. RSA 
said not using the oven was a suitable temporary repair and in line with the policy wording. 
Ive included the wording RSA referred to here:
Emergency Work
Work undertaken by the contractor to resolve an emergency by completing a temporary 
resolution or repair (or a permanent repair where this can be done at a similar cost) in 
respect of the occurrences covered by this insurance subject to the policy claim limits.
In the second final response RSA didnt accept it was required to do anything further. It said, 
as the policy only seeks to provide a temporary repair or resolution; in this instance not 
using the oven prevented the electrics from failing and ensured power was maintained to the 
rest of the property. RSA continued that after the contractor had visited the property he 
reported the electrical fault was as a direct result of the oven itself and not the electrics. 
RSA confirmed it didnt need to assist any further and Mr F would need to seek to resolve 
the issue privately by way of a permanent repair.
RSA concluded that The Landlords Home Emergency policy seeks to provide a temporary 
repair or resolution; or permanent repair where this can be done at a similar cost. In this 
instance, refraining from using the appliance provided a resolution and prevented the 
insured emergency from occurring and thus allowed time for a permanent repair to be 
completed by you. We would not consider the replacement of the oven to be at a similar cost 
to a temporary repair and we will therefore not be able to reimburse the amount of £199.00.
RSA again referred to the emergency work wording noted above but also referred to a 
further policy section noted here:
Permanent Repair: Repairs or work required to permanently resolve the reason for the 
emergency occurring Temporary Resolution or Repair A resolution or repair which will 
resolve an emergency but will need to be replaced by a permanent repair.
So, I think RSA did consider all the aspects of Mr Fs complaint.
Regarding refunding the £99 charge and apologising for taking it in the first place I think RSA 
came to a fair and reasonable outcome. I think RSA accepted that it had made a mistake 
and dealt with it. I can understand Mr Fs concern that just not using the oven wasnt any sort 
of resolution as far as he was concerned. I can see his point. But, in terms of the policy and 
what RSA has said I dont think RSA acted unreasonably or unfairly in the way it applied its wording. I think it was clear in explanation what it was willing to do and what cover the policy 
offered. I can understand Mr F doesnt think it helped him resolve matters and he felt he had 
to take matters into his own hands. But its clear that only the oven was causing the problem 
and once that was recognised not using it did mean there was no longer an emergency. 
Based on what the policy said about emergency work I think RSA has reasonably applied its 
wording regarding temporary or permanent repairs and/or replacements.
In terms of compensation Mr F has referred to his costs per hour based on his job. 
Unfortunately, any sort of claim does involve a certain amount of time to put matters right. 
This service doesnt base the use of such time on the hourly rate of the customer. Its an 
unfortunate but necessary requirement to use some time to resolve a claim. In this case 
there was an impact on Mr F in terms of the distress and inconvenience caused to him 
having to deal with the issues, particularly trying to get back the £99 that shouldnt have 
been taken from his account. RSA shouldnt have taken the money and once it knew this it 
should have arranged to pay back Mr F immediately. I think £100 compensation for this is a 
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
Pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman