DRN-2343624
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1997 to
protect a mortgage. Mr B and Miss W say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) trading as Halifax mis-
sold them the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B and Miss Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Mr B and Miss W aware that the PPI was optional and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. There is limited information available from the time the 
PPI was sold, but this isnt surprising considering the time thats passed, and that 
businesses arent required to keep this type of information indefinitely. From the information
that is available I dont have enough to say that BoS didnt make Mr B and Miss W aware the 
PPI was optional, or that they didnt choose to take it. 
I think BoS recommended the PPI to Mr B and Miss W, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. Mr B and Miss W have told us they would have been entitled to generous sick 
pay when they applied for the PPI. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to their sick 
pay and for longer than they would have received full pay.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr B and Miss Ws circumstances at the time they werent 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a 
need for the cover.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr B and Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as
it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put them off taking out the cover.
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Miss W.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman