DRN-3661750
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) declined a claim they 
made on their building warranty. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R hold a building warranty with NHBC. When they noticed cold spots and 
condensation, they made a claim to NHBC.
NHBC declined their claim. It said the claim didnt fall under the scope of the policy because 
it didnt meet the minimum claim value.
Mr and Mrs R werent happy with this and complained to us. They thought NHBC should be 
able to make their housebuilder act, because they felt it was their housebuilder who caused 
the cold spots and condensation by not building the house correctly.
One of our investigators didnt recommend Mr and Mrs Rs complaint be upheld. They said it 
wasnt NHBCs responsibility to ensure the housebuilder took action. And they thought 
NHBC was acting in line with the policy when not paying this claim.
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I understand this will be disappointing and 
frustrating to Mr and Mrs R.
In the scope of this decision, Im looking at NHBCs actions and obligations. Im not looking 
at the housebuilders. 
The housebuilders responsibility on this policy is limited to the first two years of Mr 
and Mrs Rs ownership. This claim was made outside that period.
NHBCs responsibility kicks in in year three and runs to year 10. It is within this period 
the claim is made and NHBC need to assess it in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy.
The policy has a minimum claim value (MCV) of £1,535. This means for any claim to 
be successful, it needs to cost NHBC more than that value to fix.
In this case, NHBC have provided reports showing that the cost of the claim is 
£874.70. As this is less than the MCV, NHBC have acted in line with the policy by 
declining the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman