DRN-3501825
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain that Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank) have failed to 
refund over £90,000 they lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again in detail here. In summary, Mrs Q paid over £90,000 to a fraudulent investment 
merchant in 2020 during a period where she was suffering from poor mental health. She 
made several large payments from her Danske Bank account via bank transfer between 
22 September 2020 and 7 October 2020.
Danske Bank originally blocked a payment of £25,000 Mrs Q attempted to make to Forex 
TB Ltd on 22 September 2020 where they warned her about scams and advised her not to 
make further payments without carrying out reasonable due diligence. However, as Mrs Q 
was suffering from poor mental health at the time, she proceeded to make several further 
payments to Coinbase. Danske Bank spoke to Mrs Q again on 24 September 2020 after she 
had transferred over £50,000 to Coinbase, where they warned her again of the risk of fraud. 
Mr Q became aware of the payments around this point where he arranged a meeting with 
his local branch manager on 24 September 2020. He informed the bank that Mrs Q wasnt 
well and agreed with the manager for no further large payments to be processed from the 
account. However, despite what was agreed in the meeting, a further payment of £24,000 
(which was set up as a future payment a couple of days prior) was still allowed to leave the 
account to be paid to Coinbase on 25 September 2020. Mr and Mrs Q complained to 
Danske Bank saying it should have prevented the scam payments from being made. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think that Danske Bank were liable to refund 
any payments Mrs Q made to Coinbase between 22  24 September 2020 as they wouldnt 
have appeared unusual in light of the spending history on the account, which had seen 
several large transfers made in the past. But given that Mr Q had put them on notice of the 
risk of fraud and Mrs Qs mental health on 24 September 2020, the investigator said Danske 
Bank should refund the £24,000 payment that was processed the day after, as they ought 
reasonably to have prevented it. Both parties disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to 
me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs Q authorised the disputed payments she made to Coinbase (where 
they were seemingly transferred on to the scammer from her crypto wallet). The payments 
were requested by her using her legitimate security credentials provided by Danske Bank, 
and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Danske Bank should have done more to prevent Mrs Q 
from making the scam payments, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have intervened to take a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a 
particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. In this instance, its not 
in dispute that the first £25,000 payment Mrs Q made on 22 September 2020 to Forex Ltd 
was unusual, as it did in fact trigger the banks fraud prevention systems due to the 
merchant being listed as a fraudulent company. This prompted Danske Bank to contact 
Mrs Q and issue a scam warning, which ultimately prevented this particular payment from 
being made.
However, Mrs Q later transferred around £59,000 to Coinbase, which was made up of four 
transactions (£2; £10,000; £24,000 and £25,000) sent over the space of three days. 
However, these payments were made to a legitimate company and crypto exchange, i.e. 
Coinbase. They were not made directly to a fraudulent merchant as before, so I would not 
have expected Danske Bank to block the payments based on the payee they were going to 
alone. 
Mr and Mrs Q had also made several large (legitimate) transfers of £25,000 from their 
Danske Bank account in March 2020. So, I dont consider there was cause for Danske Bank 
to have regarded the amount of the Coinbase payments as suspicious given that this 
wouldnt have constituted an unusual pattern of spending for Mr and Mrs Q in light of their 
transaction history. 
I appreciate that the bank did eventually speak to Mrs Q again on 24 September 2020 after 
she had made two transfers of £24,000 and £25,000 on the same day, as it appears she 
contacted Danske Bank after making these payments. Its arguable that Danske Bank ought 
to have intervened before the second payment of £25,000 was made (given that more than 
one large payment had already been made to the same company that day). But even if they 
had intervened at an earlier point, Im not persuaded it would have ultimately prevented 
Mrs Q from making the payments.
Danske Bank had already provided a comprehensive fraud warning about Forex TB Ltd on 
22 September 2020, where they warned her she was falling for a scam, told her how such 
scams commonly operate and said she should contact the police. They also gave her a 
contact number for their fraud department that she could call if she had any concerns in the 
future. And although Mrs Q didnt proceed to make the transfer directly to the fraudulent 
merchant she was wanted about, she still proceeded to send money to the scammer via 
Coinbase on the same day despite the warning she had been given. During the call on 
24 September 2020, when asked about the payments made to Coinbase, Mrs Q said she 
was buying Bitcoin and that it was her risk. Danske Bank said she should consult an 
independent financial advisor as they couldnt offer investment advice, but Mrs Q said she 
was happy to take the chance.
I appreciate that Mrs Q was not well at the time, and that she was not in her right mind to 
make rational financial decisions. But Danske Bank were not made aware of this until Mr Q 
informed them on 24 September 2020, and I dont think there was anything that would have 
reasonably alerted them to this based on their conversations with Mrs Q alone. So, it seems 
that no matter how strong a warning the bank couldve given, it likely wouldnt have 
prevented Mrs Q from falling victim to the scam and making the payments to Coinbase given 
the state of mind she was in at the time. Therefore, Im not persuaded that any further/earlier 
intervention on the part of Danske Bank would have ultimately prevented the payments 
Mrs Q made to Coinbase between 22 September 2020 and 24 September 2020, so I dont consider they can fairly or reasonably be held liable for this loss. 
However, following these payments, Mr Q held a meeting with Danske Bank on 
24 September 2020 after he became aware of what was happening. He says he made them 
aware of Mrs Qs vulnerabilities and agreed with the branch manager for no further large 
transactions to be made from the account. But despite this agreement and being on notice of 
Mrs Qs poor mental health, they still allowed a further payment of £24,000 to be made to 
Coinbase the following day. 
I appreciate this was a future payment that Mrs Q had set up on 23 September 2020. But 
after learning of the situation from Mr Q and being put on notice of the risk of financial harm, 
the bank ought reasonably to have cancelled and prevented the payment from leaving the 
account. So, I consider Danske Bank to be liable for this loss, and I will therefore be directing 
them to refund this payment to Mr and Mrs Q. I understand a payment of £10,000 was also 
later transferred out of the account on 14 October 2020 which should have also been 
prevented. However, seeing as this went to another bank account in Mrs Qs name, Danske 
Bank cannot be held liable for any subsequent loss of this money (if indeed it was lost, which 
isnt clear), as the loss did not occur from this account. However, Mrs Q may wish to 
complain to her other bank if she subsequently transferred this money to the scammer. 
Ive also considered whether Danske Bank took reasonable steps to try and recover the 
funds. Coinbase have confirmed that they received recalls from the bank on 24 September 
2020, which is the date Mr Q raised his concerns. However, only £2 remained in the 
account, which Coinbase have confirmed still remains given that restrictions were placed on 
the account on 25 September 2020. So, its clear that the money Mrs Q deposited had since 
been transferred out of the Coinbase wallet in her name. And given Danske Bank sought to 
recover the funds on the same day the fraud was reported, I dont think they could have 
done anything more to recover the money in these circumstances.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs Q, and Im very sorry to 
hear about the poor health Mrs Q has been experiencing. But while Im sympathetic to the 
loss her and Mr Q have sustained, I cannot fairly or reasonably hold Danske Bank liable for 
the entirety of it for the reasons Ive already explained. Finally, I note that Mr Q has also 
queried other payments that did not form part of his original complaint to Danske Bank. 
However, he would need to dispute any such payments with the bank in the first instance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Northern Bank Limited 
trading as Danske Bank to refund Mr and Mrs Q the £24,000 payment made from the 
account on 25 September 2020. 
Danske Bank should also pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date of 
loss until the date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman