DRN-2187180
The complaint
Mrs M complains that charges for damage Close Brothers Limited (CBL) applied when she 
ended her Conditional Sale Agreement are unfair. She would like them waived.
What happened
Mrs M says she acquired an 11-year-old car with 92000 miles on the clock on a Conditional 
Sale Agreement with CBL in 2017. She says she decided to end her agreement in 2019 at 
which point CBL charged her for a previous poor repair to the off side front door,  scuff  
marks on the near side wheels and tyres and  for a cut on the near side front tyre. 
Mrs M says she thinks these charges are unfair given the age and condition of the car when 
she got it. For example, she says the alloys were scuffed when she got the car.
CBL said it charges were fair as the damage fell outside fair wear and tear guidelines.
Our investigator initially upheld Mrs Ms complaint. He felt it was likely the damage to the tyre 
hadnt  been present when Mrs M first got the car. And that damage to the alloys was likely, 
at least in part, to have occurred when the tyre wall was damaged. However, he found no 
evidence that the poor repair to the off side rear door occurred whilst Mrs M had the car. 
He recommended that CBL remove the charge for the poor repair to the door. CBL accepted 
this view but Mrs M didnt.
Mrs M asked for clarification as to what  exactly she had to pay, for evidence that work had 
been carried out prior to the car being sold and  reiterated that the car was damaged when 
she got it. But she also said it was unfair to be charged for having the door fixed and 
replacing the tyres.
Our investigator considered the comments Mrs M made. And as a result, he changed his 
view. He clarified the charges CBL applied were laid out in his first view. But he explained 
that as Mrs M had now said she had had the door repaired and tyres replaced that it was 
reasonable for CBL to  charge as it had. This was on the basis that the  work hadnt been 
carried out to the required standard.
CBL accepted this second view but Mrs M didnt. She felt it was unfair having had the car for 
two years and having tried to improve it to now be charged for repair work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M feels strongly about her complaint and I do understand that . So, I appreciate she is 
going to be disappointed as Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator in his 
second view.
Mrs M has told us that the car had scuffs and damage when she got it .And that she 
accepted that as part of the deal. CBL contradicts this , it says the dealership  confirmed that 
once a car has been test driven any mechanical work required , body work and the  MOT is 
completed pre-sale.
Mrs Ms car was 11 years old when she got it  and had already driven 92000 miles, so I 
doubt it was in perfect condition pre-sale. But I have no evidence to support Mrs M accepted 
it as it was with some damage. Or that the dealership made good any necessary repair work 
prior to Mrs M getting it.
However, I have looked at the contract Mrs M signed. That makes it clear that  Mrs M was 
responsible for any damage that fell outside of fair wear and tear. And that in the event of 
ending the agreement early , as was the case here, that apart from the appropriate payment 
to end the contract early Mrs M wouldnt have to pay anything else if she had taken 
reasonable care of the car. So, I think Mrs M would have known that however and whenever  
the contract ended, she would be liable for any damage outside of fair wear and tear.
I have seen the inspection report carried out on the car .That clearly shows,  and lists, the 
three areas of damage that CBL has charged for.  Our investigator considered the charges 
against the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidelines (BVRLA) which are 
industry standard guidelines. I agree with his assessment that all three areas CBL charged 
for fall within BVRLA guidelines for charging.
Since our investigator issued his first view Mrs M has told us she improved the car by 
repairing the front offside door and replacing tyres. I do understand that she feels if anything 
this added value to the car. But the repairs werent made to the BVRLA standard . Thats 
unfortunate but I do believe the inspection was fair that the charges CBL  made were 
reasonable.
Mrs M has said that she would like to know what costs CBL incurred in repairing the car pre-
sale. I dont think that is relevant. Its a business decision to repair a car or sell as is at a 
loss. So that was a decision for CBL to make. But if it didnt repair the car it doesnt mean 
that Mrs M isnt liable for those costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman