DRN-3120062
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) withheld a credit of £9,000 paid into his 
account.
What happened
Mr W sold a car and received three credits  two for £9,000 and one for £5,500 into his 
account on 30 May 2021. One amount of £9,000 was then debited to his account on 30 May 
2021. On 31 May 2021, it was credited to Mr Ws account again.
Mr W complained. He said that the amount of £9,000 was showing as available when it was 
received on 30 May 2021. And so  he allowed the purchaser to take the car away. But then 
when HSBC later debited the amount of £9,000  he was left with the worry that hed been 
the victim of a scam. He said he had considerable stress and worry between then and when 
the amount was re-credited to his account the following day. He said hed had a lot of trouble 
contacting HSBC between 30 May 2021 and 31 May 2021 when he was trying to resolve 
matters.
HSBC said theyd withdrawn the £9,000 because the remitting bank wanted to make further 
checks. Until the checks had been completed, they delayed access to the funds. In this 
case, the remitting bank was in fact HSBC  and they couldnt get hold of the sender of the 
payment and so theyd debited Mr Ws account with the amount. They apologised for the 
long wait times that Mr W experienced  this was due to the COVID 19 pandemic and the 
arrangements that theyd put in place at the time.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator looked at what had happened. He said 
the payment has been returned to Mr Ws account on 31 May 2021. HSBCs terms and 
conditions gave them the right to withhold payments into an account where additional fraud 
checks were undertaken by the sending bank - which is what happened here. HSBC (as 
remitting bank) couldnt get any response from the sender of the payment and so reversed it. 
He accepted that the long call waiting times were due to the pandemic.
Mr W didnt agree. He said the amount was showing as available in his account balance. 
He couldnt see why two of the payments went through satisfactorily, but the third one didnt, 
- and this was the one sent from an HSBC account. He also couldnt accept that HSBC didnt 
contact him. He asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ws complaint is that on 30 May 2021, his account was credited with three 
payments of £9,000, £9,000, and £5,500  and one of them (which was sent from an HSBC 
account) was later debited to his account. The payments were for a car  and the purchaser 
had taken the car away. So  he was left with the worry that hed been the victim of a scam. 
His complaint focuses only on the one payment of £9,000  as the other two posed no 
problems.
It's an unfortunate fact that there are a lot of frauds in the banking system and all banks, 
including HSBC, have systems in place to prevent fraudulent payments. And where they 
have concerns, they can withhold the payment until their inquiries are completed. These are  
done by the remitting bank  and while this was HSBC in this case, HSBC must make its 
own inquiries as the remitter  as if it were a different bank. So  they couldnt tell Mr W 
anything about why they were making their inquiries. But while they were doing so, they 
withheld the payment. Its important to note that the decision to withhold the payment was 
made by the sending bank  not by HSBC as the receiving bank. So  the fact that the other 
two payments were released into Mr Ws account without any delays wasnt down to HSBC 
as the receiving bank.
HSBCs terms and conditions give them the right to withhold payments as they say  
Payments into your account by mistake or fraudIf we suspect any payment into your 
account was made by fraud, we can remove it without asking you. And  thats what 
happened in this case. I can see that HSBC debited Mr Ws account with the amount of 
£9,000 on the same day it was received  on 30 May 2021. Mr W says it was showing as 
available as well as in his balance before HSBC debited the amount  and therefore he 
assumed that the payment was confirmed. Therefore, he said HSBC had acted unfairly. So  
Ive considered this point. We asked HSBC for evidence about Mr Ws available balance. 
They couldnt show us this. But they confirmed that their process was that it wouldnt show 
as available  but it would show in Mr Ws balance. So  Ive thought about this, as if the 
funds were shown as available in Mr Ws account  then his complaint would be a 
reasonable one.
I listened to the calls that Mr W made to HSBC. In the call at 8.02am on 31 May 2021  Mr 
W said that the payment of £9,000 from the purchasers HSBC account the day before went 
into my account and appeared in my balance but not available. And so, for me  this is 
important evidence, as Mr W was saying the credit for £9,000 wasnt showing as available 
on 30 May 2021. This is consistent with what HSBC told us that their processes were. So in 
this respect, Im persuaded that on 30 May 2021 the available amount in Mr Ws account 
didnt include the credit of £9,000.
Ive also listened to the other calls between Mr W and HSBC later in the day on 31 May 2021 
 when HSBC told Mr W that the available balance was £9,000 less that the actual balance 
for the same reason  that the remitting bank was contacting the sender to make inquiries. In 
the two later calls on that day, at 4pm and then at 4.23pm HSBC said that the remitting 
banks inquiries had been completed and the available balance would be adjusted within 24 
hours. Mr W told us that happened early on 1 June 2021 when he looked at his account 
then. This is also consistent with what HSBC told us.
I can see that the communications between Mr W and HSBC were less than perfect  as on 
30 May 2021, he called after 8pm in the evening and the fraud team had closed. And on 31 
May 2021, there was limited availability on the part of the fraud team as it was a bank 
holiday. And  HSBC said they also had reduced members of staff because of the pandemic 
 and I think we must accept this. Mr W has also made the point that HSBC should have contacted him. HSBC told us that this wasnt part of their processes, but I have to say that in 
an ideal world, HSBC might have notified Mr W about what had happened, and why. But Im 
not sure this would have helped very much  because HSBC were still, at that stage, making 
their inquiries of the sender (as the remitting bank)  and so wouldnt have had anything to 
tell Mr W. But it may have helped a little. But - I can see how frustrating and concerning the 
experience was for him. 
But  on balance, and in the circumstances of this complaint I dont think HSBC made any 
errors in dealing with the payment, and therefore I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman