DRN-2778767
The complaint
Mr N, on behalf of T, complains that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined the claim T made 
under a commercial insurance policy following losses suffered as a result of the impact of 
COVID-19. 
What happened
T has the benefit of a commercial insurance policy underwritten by Covea. Much of the 
correspondence on this matter was via a third party acting as Coveas agent, but for the 
sake of simplicity I will just refer to Covea in this decision.
Mr N made a claim on that policy to cover Ts losses arising out of the closure of T in 
March 2020 due to the national government-imposed lockdown intended to control the 
spread of COVID-19. Covea responded, declining the claim and saying no cover was 
provided by the policy in the circumstances. Covea said that the Infectious Diseases 
extension in the policy did provide some cover where a policyholder was required to close on 
the order of a government as a result of certain diseases. But that only claims relating to the 
particular diseases listed in the policy were covered and COVID-19 was not one of the listed 
diseases.
Mr N complained about this decision, saying it was unfair. Covea did not alter its position, 
saying that the policy was designed to provide limited cover for a specified list of defined 
disease. Covea also referred to the Public Emergency extension in Ts policy, but said this 
didnt offer cover either as it excluded claims relating to; infectious or contagious diseases. 
As Mr N remained unhappy, he brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator did not 
consider the complaint should be upheld though. He thought Covea had fairly applied the 
terms of the policy to the circumstances of the claim. The investigator also referred to the 
general business interruption cover and the Denial of Access extension, but said these 
required Ts business to have been interrupted as a result of damage  and COVID-19 
hadnt cased any damage. As Mr N remained unsatisfied, this complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on T. And I am also 
sorry to learn of Mr Ns own health concerns. But for the same reasons the investigator set 
out, I wont be upholding Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
The type of cover T is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in additional circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. 
The starting point is to consider the specific policy T took out and what situations the 
insurance it provides responds to. As such Ive considered every aspect of the policy T holds 
with Covea to determine whether there are any sections that would require Covea to meet 
the claim T is making. Having done so, I dont think there are. 
The general cover provided by the business interruption section of Ts policy, along with a 
number of the extension including Denial of Access, would potentially be activated when 
property is damaged. Whilst T suffered a loss of income as a result of an interruption to their 
business, COVID-19 didnt cause any damage to property. So, this cover does not apply to 
the circumstances of Ts claim.
Two of the extensions to this cover in Ts policy that dont require there to have been 
damage, and look like they might provide cover in the circumstances, are the Infectious 
Diseases and the Public Emergency extensions. 
Infectious Diseases
This extension provides cover where there is a:
closure of the Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any 
government or local authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any person 
whilst at the Premises, or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises
The term Disease here is capitalised and carries its own definition within this section of the 
policy. As the section states prior to providing that definition:
These definitions apply to this Section wherever these words or phrases appear with 
an upper case letter except where otherwise stated
The definition for Disease then reads:
Disease
means any of the following diseases sustained by any person acute encephalitis, 
acute infectious hepatitis, acute meningitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, botulism, 
brucellosis, cholera, diphtheria, enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid), food poisoning, 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome(HUS), infectious bloody diarrhoea, invasive group A 
streptococcal disease, legionellosis, leprosy, malaria, measles, meningococcal 
septicaemia, mumps, plague, rabies, rubella, SARS, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, 
tuberculosis, typhus, viral haemorrhagic fever (VHF), whooping cough and yellow 
fever
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided T with cover. This is because COVID-19 isnt one of the specified diseases listed in 
the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease and it might not have 
been possible for Covea to include it in the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think 
that changes anything. 
Thats because I dont think Covea intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover in 
this extension for all diseases  either all infectious or contagious disease or all those that might be added to a government defined, regularly updated list. Covea deliberately chose to 
define Disease by reference to a static list of specified diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
I think the purpose and effect of this extension is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the definition of Disease in the business interruption section of Ts policy. 
I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall 
outside of the defined list set out above.  
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Ts claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of the policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Coveas decision to decline the claim under 
this extension was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and 
reasonable. 
Public Emergency
This section of the policy says, in part:
The Extension provides cover for the actions or advice of a competent Public 
Authority due to an emergency likely to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the 
Premises which prevents or hinders the use of or access to the Premises; 
excluding
4) infectious or contagious diseases
This means cover is provided for situations where, due to an emergency which is likely to 
endanger life or property, a public authority prevents or hinders the use of or access to an 
insureds property.
However, this cover is limited by a number of exclusions. The exclusion listed under 4) 
above was for infectious or contagious disease. I consider this means any prevention or 
hinderance of the use of or access to Ts premises, which was in consequence of an 
infectious or contagious disease, would not be covered by this part of the policy. 
T had to close its business as a result of the actions or advice of the UK Government. But 
these actions were taken due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Covid-19 is an infectious disease. 
And the restrictions imposed from March 2020 were intended to control the spread of, and 
so as a result of, this infectious disease. 
So, whilst Ts policy does provide some cover for loss resulting from a public emergency, the 
impact on Ts business from March 2020 is not covered by this section because the impact 
was as a result of an infectious disease, a circumstance specifically excluded. 
For completeness, whilst this exclusion would mean the claim would not be covered by the 
policy, I should also add that it is unlikely this extension would offer T cover in the 
circumstances anyway. The cover here relates to the actions of the relevant authority in 
response to an emergency in the vicinity of Ts premises. The actions taken by the 
Government were as a result of a nationwide pandemic, rather than something localised to Ts premises. So, it doesnt seem this extension would cover Ts claim. However, as the 
exclusion would apply anyway, I do not feel it necessary to expand upon this further. 
Mr N has recently said that he was never provided with a copy of the policy documents at 
the time the policy was taken out. If Mr N, on behalf of T, is unhappy about this, he will need 
to raise that with the party responsible for the sale. The actions of that party at that time 
would be a separate complaint from the current one, which relates to Coveas response to 
Ts claim. Regardless of whether the terms were received by Mr N, they are those that relate 
to this claim. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Covea should have met Ts claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mr N but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why Ts 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman