DRN-3317693
The complaint
Mr G complains about how AWP P&C SA handled a claim he made on his motor warranty.
Reference to AWP includes its agents.
What happened
Mr G holds a motor warranty with AWP. In June 2019 his car was broken down, his car 
taken to a garage and a claim submitted to AWP for the cost of the repairs.
Mr G complained about how AWP handled this claim. He had a number of complaint points 
that can be summarised as:
The time taken to complete the repair
The condition the car was in when it was returned to him
AWP not covering all the repair  meaning Mr G had to pay £6,739.99 to get his car 
back  this cost relates to the fuel pump, clutch and flywheel
The service provided by the staff at the garage
Not being provided a courtesy car
Not being provided documentation to evidence his engine was replaced
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint and recommended it be partly upheld. She 
said there were aspects of the complaint that AWP werent responsible for. But she said 
AWP needed to pay for the cost to replace Mr Cs clutch and flywheel. And she thought 
AWP needed to compensate Mr G £100 for the trouble and upset of having to find the 
money at such short notice after not being informed this part of his claim was declined.
Despite numerous attempts and opportunities, AWP didnt respond to our investigators 
assessment of the complaint. So, the case has been passed to me to issue a final decision 
on.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
Much of my decision is broadly the same as our investigators for broadly the same reasons. 
As mentioned, AWP havent made further arguments or provided further evidence following 
our investigators assessment of the complaint despite being given numerous opportunities 
to do so. Its entitled not to agree with our investigators assessment, as is any business or 
consumer. But without response, it is difficult to understand whether it agrees or not. And if it 
doesnt agree, its not told us why or provided further evidence or arguments to support its 
position.
Many of Mr Gs complaint points, AWP arent responsible for. His policy with AWP covers 
him for the cost of the repair, it doesnt cover him for the repair itself. So, AWP isnt 
responsible for the repair itself, including time taken to complete it, or the condition Mr Gs 
car was returned to him in. Nor is it responsible for the behaviour of the staff at the garage 
where Mr G had his car repaired or not being provided documentation to show the engine 
was replaced.
Mr Gs policy doesnt cover him for a courtesy car while his policy is getting repaired either. 
So, AWP didnt need to provide him one.
But AWP is responsible for covering the costs of Mr Gs claim, subject to those costs being 
covered by the policy. In this case, £6,739.99 wasnt covered. This cost is made up of three 
main elements, a replacement fuel system, a replacement clutch and replacement flywheel.
The fuel system hasnt been covered because the repairing garage said this damage was 
caused by contaminated fuel. I appreciate Mr G disagrees with this finding, but I think its 
reasonable that AWP relied on the report from the repairing garage. But I cant see where 
the policy sets out that damage caused by contaminated fuel isnt covered. Mr Gs warranty 
doesnt cover him for incorrect fuel, but theres no suggestion the fuel was incorrect, just 
contaminated. So, unlike our investigator, I think AWP need to cover this aspect of the claim 
too as the fuel system is covered (with the exception of fuel hoses).
The clutch (with the exception of the facings) and flywheel are both covered components of 
Mr Gs policy with AWP. As our investigator pointed out, weve not been provided with any 
evidence to explain why these parts werent covered. So, I cant reasonably say its fair that 
AWP dont pay the costs associated with this repair. Therefore, it should pay Mr G these 
costs.
Our investigator recommended Mr G be paid £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by having to find a large sum of money at short notice. Im satisfied 
£100 compensation is reasonable for having this part of the claim declined and needing to 
find money to fund it himself.
Without any further arguments or evidence, I said I was provisionally minded to partially 
uphold this complaint. To put things right I said Id require AWP P&C SA to:
Reimburse Mr C the costs he paid the garage in relation to the fuel system, clutch 
and flywheel. AWP may make a reasonable deduction for the fuel hoses and the 
clutch facing as these parts are excluded by the policy. 8% simple interest should be 
added to this. Interest should be calculated from the date Mr G paid the garage to the 
date AWP pays Mr G
Pay Mr G £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
Neither Mr G nor AWP responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from its 
reasoning or direction.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right I require AWP to:Reimburse Mr C the costs he paid the garage in relation to the fuel system, clutch 
and flywheel. AWP may make a reasonable deduction for the fuel hoses and the 
clutch facing as these parts are excluded by the policy. 8% simple interest should be 
added to this. Interest should be calculated from the date Mr G paid the garage to the 
date AWP pays Mr G
Pay Mr G £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman