DRN-3278839
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr G was employed as a graphic designer. He had an income protection policy, underwritten 
by L&G. The policy would pay a benefit if he was unable to work due to illness or injury.
Mr G began suffering from insomnia in May 2020 and went on to be signed off work by his 
GP from June to October 2020 with stress. He submitted a claim on his policy that was 
declined by L&G. 
L&G said the medical evidence said his symptoms were related to stress and they didnt 
deem that to be an illness, so it wasnt covered by the policy. They highlighted Mr G had 
been furloughed in May to June before his absence, which they said wouldve been 
stressful.  And then on 20 July 2020 he was told was being made redundant in October 
2020. Whilst this was after his absence started, L&G said this also wouldve caused or 
contributed to his stress. 
In relation to the redundancy, L&G confirmed there isnt anything in their terms and 
conditions that require the customer to have a contract of employment to continue to claim 
and receive benefit, as long as they were in gainful employment at the start of their 
incapacity.
Mr G complained that his claim had been declined and how long the matter had taken to
be dealt with. L&G accepted they didnt meet their usual customer service standard and 
offered £200 in recognition of the trouble and upset the delays caused. 
Mr G remained unhappy and referred the matter to this service. Our investigator looked at 
what had happened. She confirmed a complaint about the sale of the policy would be a 
separate matter against the broker. In relation to the actions of L&G as the insurer, she said 
there wasnt enough evidence to show Mr G was incapacitated due to an illness. So she 
didnt think it was unfair L&G had declined the claim. 
Mr G disagreed. He said he couldnt do his job because he couldnt keep numbers in his 
head.  He referred to only being able to speak to his GP over the phone and that they were 
going to conduct a more in depth investigation when there was less strain on the NHS. 
He was also unhappy with the rehab specialist as he didnt feel hed been taken seriously, 
and theyd asked the same questions as L&G.  He also raised concerns that this service had 
a lack of understanding about mental health conditions.  
The case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The burden of proof is on Mr G to prove he has a valid claim under his policy by showing he 
meets the definition of incapacity. L&Gs terms and conditions define incapacity as follows:
due to illness or injury, you're unable to work in your own occupation and you're not 
following any other occupation, we'll consider you to be incapacitated.
So L&G must be satisfied Mr G was suffering from an illness that prevented him from 
working in role as a graphic designer. 
Ive reviewed everything on file  this includes the recording of the interview with the 
rehabilitation specialist and all the available medical evidence. Having done so, I dont think 
L&G had enough medical evidence to reasonably conclude Mr G met the definition of 
incapacity. So Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain my reasons in more detail 
below: 
All the medical evidence makes frequent reference to Mr G suffering from symptoms 
related to stress. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to conclude Mr Gs 
absence was due to stress.  The NHS says that stress in itself is not an illness, but it 
can progress into an illness. So Ive carefully reviewed the medical evidence from the 
time of the claim. Mr Gs GP continually diagnosed stress in the sick notes - its clear 
these symptoms were impacting Mr Gs ability to sleep and his concentration, and he 
was prescribed medication to help him manage these symptoms. But Im not 
persuaded the medical evidence shows a diagnosis of an actual medical condition. 
Mr G says he was suffering from anxiety. But the GP specifically confirms in a letter 
to L&G on 9 October that the diagnosis was stress related problems. And anxiety 
isnt mentioned in the GP fit notes until 22 October 2020. Its reasonable for L&G to 
have relied upon the medical opinion from Mr Gs treating doctor.  
The rehabilitation report, conducted following a review of the medial evidence and an 
interview with Mr G, also said the information provided didnt indicate a clinical 
illness. Mr G is unhappy with this report, but as there wasnt enough evidence from 
the GP to show he met the definition of incapacity, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for L&G to instruct this interview. And then give weight to the specialist opinion. 
L&G acknowledged their service wasnt to the usual standard because of delays 
during the pandemic, which although unintentional, they said was unacceptable. And 
they paid £200 for the trouble and upset caused. Taking into account that the delays 
in this claim were also due to the GP surgery and other services taking longer than 
usual, I think this is reasonable for the additional stress this caused Mr G, at an 
already difficult time. 
Mr G argues he was only able to speak to his GP on the phone, rather than have a 
more in depth investigation due to the strain on the NHS. But L&G were entitled to 
rely on the medical evidence fit notes from his GP. And I can see they contacted the 
surgery to obtain more detailed information and the GP provided this. They then 
instructed a further report from the rehabilitation specialist. So Im satisfied L&G 
acted fairly in the circumstances. 
Following the decision to decline his claim, Mr G has told L&G he thinks his 
symptoms are due to a different condition. He said he had an initial appointment 
about this in February 2021 and I can see L&G responded to this and explained he would need to submit supporting medical evidence. Im satisfied this was a fair 
response from L&G.  
Mr G has said this service has a lack of understanding about mental health 
conditions. For clarity  we arent medical experts. My role is to decide if L&G 
assessed his claim fairly based on the medical evidence available at the time of the 
claim.  L&G reviewed Mr Gs medical records, contacted his GP, considered his sick 
notes and instructed an interview with a rehabilitation specialist. As explained above - 
it was this medical evidence that they relied on before declining the claim. So I dont 
think L&G acted unfairly. 
In summary, I think it was reasonable for L&G to conclude there wasnt enough medical 
evidence to show Mr G was suffering from an illness. So it was fair for them to decline this 
claim because they didnt think Mr G met the policy definition of incapacity. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman