DRN-2187205
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain because Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim under their travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes.
Mr and Mrs W were due to travel abroad on 16 March 2020, on an independently booked 
holiday. 
On 15 March 2020, Mr and Mrs W were notified that the accommodation they were due to 
stay at while abroad was closed due to local government restrictions implemented as a 
result of Covid-19. On the same day, Mr and Mrs W were also notified that their return flight 
on 22 March 2020 was suspended. 
As they had nowhere to stay abroad and their return flight wouldnt be operating, Mr and 
Mrs W cancelled their holiday and made a claim under their policy with Great Lakes. The 
costs claimed for were;
their unused outbound flight (which had gone ahead);
their unused accommodation costs;
their unused pre-booked car parking costs.
Mr and Mrs W received refunds for their original return flights and their pre-booked transfers 
abroad from other sources. 
Great Lakes said Mr and Mrs Ws claim wasnt covered under the cancellation section of 
their insurance policy. Mr and Mrs W queried why the claim didnt fall under the catastrophe 
section of their cover. Great Lakes said this section of cover only applied to those already 
travelling, where a catastrophe occurred during their trip. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs W complained to Great Lakes before bringing their complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said he thought it would be fair and 
reasonable for Great Lakes to accept Mr and Mrs Ws claim under the catastrophe section 
of their policy. Great Lakes didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr and Mrs Ws claim isnt covered under the 
cancellation section of their policy. Cancellation of a trip is covered only in specific 
circumstances, which are listed in the policy terms and conditions. The only one of these 
circumstances which is potentially relevant to Mr and Mrs Ws claim is the following:
e) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all 
but essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood or 
hurricane.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office didnt advise against travel to Mr and Mrs Ws 
intended destination until after they were due to depart on their trip. And, when the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office did advise against travel, it wasnt because of an earthquake, fire 
flood or hurricane. 
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ws claim is covered under the cancellation section of their 
cover, and I dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly or unreasonably by turning down their 
claim for this reason.  
However, Mr and Mrs Ws policy also includes catastrophe cover. Their policy says:
We will pay you up to the amount shown on the table of benefits for the cost you 
pay, or agree to pay overseas, for similar travel expenses and accommodation to 
allow you to continue with your holiday or journey. We will only do this if you cannot 
reach or cannot live in your booked accommodation because of a fire, flood, 
earthquake, storm, lightening, explosion, hurricane or a major outbreak of an 
infectious disease. 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs W could not stay at their booked accommodation because of a 
major outbreak of an infectious disease. This is evidenced by an email from the resort where 
Mr and Mrs W were due to stay, dated the day before their intended departure date, saying 
the accommodation was closed. The resort has provided a further letter dated 23 March 
2020 confirming it was closed from 14 March 2020 until further notice due to the coronavirus 
crisis, and that no refund or transfer of the accommodation was possible. 
Ive taken into account what Great Lakes has said about this section of the policy, and that it 
only applies when the policyholder is already abroad. Great Lakes has pointed to one of the 
exclusions set out under this section of the policy which it says demonstrates that the 
policyholder needs to have left their international departure point before the cover comes 
into force. Great Lakes has also said that if catastrophe cover was intended to come into 
effect pre-trip then it would be listed under cancellation, and it is not designed to be an 
extension of cancellation cover. 
However, neither the catastrophe section of cover nor the policy table of benefits state that 
catastrophe cover only applies when the consumer has already departed on their trip. 
The catastrophe section of cover provides for Great Lakes to pay additional costs to allow 
the policyholder to continue with their journey, and Mr and Mrs W didnt incur additional 
costs or continue with their trip. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs W didnt travel, and I think this was a reasonable decision for 
them to have made in the circumstances. If Mr and Mrs W had flown abroad on their 
outbound flight, which went ahead on 16 March 2020, they would have had no 
accommodation to stay at. They also would have had to rearrange return flights, as theyve 
provided evidence that they were told on 15 March 2020 that the original return flights were 
suspended. Therefore, if Mr and Mrs W had travelled as planned, they would have had 
additional accommodation and travel costs. I note there is a policy exclusion relating to events that the policyholder was aware of before 
departing on their trip. So, if Mr and Mrs W had gone ahead and travelled, I think Great 
Lakes is likely to have said there was no cover for any additional costs the incurred anyway. 
I dont think its fair or reasonable for Mr and Mrs W to be left in a position where they 
wouldnt have been covered if they did travel but they also arent covered when they 
cancelled. Im satisfied Mr and Mrs W attempted to minimise both their own and Great 
Lakes losses when they made the decision not to travel. 
So, based on the specific circumstances of this complaint, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim for their unused costs under the 
catastrophe section of their cover. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to put things right by accepting Mr and Mrs Ws catastrophe claim, 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any applicable policy 
limit and/or excess. 
Great Lakes needs to add interest to the claim payment at 8% simple per annum from the 
date of the claim until the date settlement is paid. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE and I direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman