DRN-3601494
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed, when he asked, to put a stop on his account 
to restrict gambling. This led to him losing a large amount of money..
What happened
Mr D says he went into the local branch of his bank on 27 November 2020 and asked for a 
stop to be put on his account for gambling transactions. He says HSBC failed to do this and 
he was still able to carry out gambling transactions on the account until August 2021 when 
he applied a stop on such transactions through his mobile banking app. He has told us he 
had by that stage already applied a stop directly with the gambling companies using an 
internet service. Nevertheless, he says that by that time he had already run up considerable 
gambling debts.
When he complained to HSBC, it said it had no record of his visiting the branch. It also 
pointed out that it had no record of him contacting it to complain the transactions were still 
going through. So, it said it was unable to assist with refunding or compensating him for 
gambling transactions.
On this matter being referred to the Financial Ombudsman, HSBC offered a £50 ex gratia 
payment, which Mr D declined. Our investigator said that as there was no record of his 
visiting the bank or of raising the matter with it when the transactions continued to go 
through, it wouldnt be fair to hold HSBC responsible for his losses. He further said there was 
no evidence from the way his account was maintained of any financial difficulty. The account 
was always kept in credit and there was no evidence of other credit being used.
Mr D disagreed and said the matter had affected his mental health and he didnt understand 
why HSBC hadnt restricted the account when he asked it to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has sent us copies of his bank statements for the account he used for gambling from 
November 2019 until November 2021.HSBC says it has no record of Mr D visiting the 
branch on the date he says he went in. As Mr D says he had gone to the trouble of going 
into his branch, I would have expected him to notice that when he carried out gambling 
transactions three days later they still went through. He has advised us that he used several 
accounts for gambling and hadnt noticed that this one was still allowing gambling 
transactions. Though if that is the case it would be difficult to say that HSBC was responsible 
for his continuing to gamble. 
The statements show no entries after 14 April 2021 which could be identified as gambling 
transactions, so it seems likely to me that he put the general stop on those transactions from 
after that date. The account does show evidence of his trading in crypto currencies, through 
as HSBC has pointed out those sorts of transactions arent regarded as gambling and 
wouldnt be caught by any stop put on the account for gambling.
As there isnt any record, apart from Mr Ds assertion, of his visit to the bank and as he didnt 
chase up the matter when the transactions continued to go through I dont think that HSBC is 
responsible for Mr Ds gambling losses because of any failure to put a stop on his account.
I have considered, nevertheless, whether HSBC should have realised he had a problem with 
his spending. It appears to me that this was an account used mainly for gambling and 
currency transactions. It clearly couldnt have been an account used for day to day living. 
The account was used mainly from around 27 October 2020 onwards. There are substantial 
gambling transactions from then until about 14 April 2021. There were also a number of 
payments made through an online payments service (which, if used for gambling, also 
wouldnt have been prevented by any gambling stop on the account). 
HSBCs notes of its practices point out that somebody who gambles isnt automatically 
regarded as a vulnerable customer. My review of the gambling transactions on the account 
show that although Mr D did indeed spend considerable sums on gambling, he did get a little 
more than half of that back in winnings. And as the account was kept in credit and as Ive 
seen no evidence of Mr D using credit or loans to fund his gambling habit, I cant say that 
HSBC should have been alerted to any unusual spending patterns in respect of this account.
As I think Mr D could have chased the matter up with HSBC if he expected the gambling 
transactions to be stopped and as there were no other indicators that in my view should 
have led HSBC to take action, I dont think it is responsible for Mr Ds gambling losses. Ive 
also noted Mr Ds statement to our investigator that he had a number of different accounts 
he used for gambling. 
Im sorry that Mr D has had problems with his gambling and Im pleased to note he has now 
sought treatment to stop this. However, in light of my findings I cant uphold his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman