DRN-2593554
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (previously when it was 
trading under a different business name) mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with their mortgage.
Halifax is now responsible for dealing with this complaint. So, to keep things simpler, in my 
decision Ill just refer to Halifax as the business that sold the PPI. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage in 1993 and they were sold PPI around the same time. 
The PPI covered Mr W for accident, sickness and unemployment and protected 
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage monthly repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ws mis-selling complaint. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with this view. They told us it was made very clear to them that if 
they didnt have PPI they would be refused the mortgage they were applying for. 
Mr and Mrs W also want to complain about PPI relating to two earlier Halifax mortgages 
dating back to the 1980s. But Halifax has no information about those mortgages still in its 
records. Mr and Mrs W cleared out all their old paperwork when they moved house and they 
cant send me any more information. So Im concentrating in my decision on the PPI they 
took out with their 1993 mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs W could provide any signed paperwork that shows how or 
exactly when the PPI was sold. But this isnt surprising given how long ago this sale 
happened. The fact that Halifax cant now produce the sale documents isnt a reason for me 
to uphold this complaint. 
Halifaxs records show that the PPI was set up alongside Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage from the 
start. And Mr and Mrs W told us they made their application during a meeting when they 
were arranging their mortgage. So I think thats most likely when Halifax sold them this PPI. 
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr and Mrs W arranged their mortgage and 
took out this PPI. After so long, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect them to recall exactly 
what was said at the time. This means that what Mr and Mrs W say about the way they were 
sold this PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. 
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. This means 
making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. And I must be 
impartial. 
In order to be able to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws mis-selling complaint, Id have to find that its 
likely that Mr and Mrs W werent given a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their 
account without their consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage without their consent. 
I say this because their mortgage was a major financial commitment which they signed up to 
pay back over 25 years. PPI offered a dependable means of ensuring their monthly 
mortgage repayments were protected if they couldnt work and better protection than they 
had otherwise. So it looks to me as if Mr and Mrs W couldve found PPI useful if theyd 
needed to claim. And I can see why they mightve felt that having PPI was worthwhile for 
them when they arranged their mortgage.  
Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Halifax didnt 
make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs W not to choose PPI if they didnt want to have 
it. 
On balance, I think its likely that they decided they wanted to have the benefits PPI offered 
and they chose to buy the policy to cover Mr W  even if theyve forgotten this now.  
Halifax looked at their mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had recommended 
PPI during the meeting Mr and Mrs W recalled.
If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important 
policy information in a clear way. 
It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.   
Ive looked carefully at what Mr and Mrs W told us about their situation at the time to see if 
PPI was right for them when they took out this mortgage.  
It looks to me as if PPI wouldve been a suitable recommendation based on what 
Mr and Mrs W have said about their circumstances at the time. 
Mr W was eligible for the PPI cover. Ive taken into account that he told us his employer 
wouldve paid him full sick pay for 6 months followed by 6 months half pay. 
But the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per accident and sickness claim. 
So the PPI provided better protection than he couldve relied on getting through his 
employer. 
And it wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay providing Mr and Mrs W with a useful benefit 
at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that they mightve had some extra costs as a 
result of Mr W being sick or disabled and he wouldve only been on half pay after being off 
work sick for 6 months. 
In addition, PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr W lost his 
job and became unexpectedly unemployed.I dont know if Mr and Mrs W wouldve always had savings to rely on. And the amount of 
savings theyve mentioned isnt enough to make me think that the PPI wouldnt still have 
been useful. 
Mr W couldve made repeated claims on the policy. So PPI provided long term cover whilst 
Mr and Mrs W had to pay their mortgage.    
With PPI in place Mr and Mrs W could be sure theyd be able to keep on paying the 
mortgage and protect their home even if Mr W couldnt work. 
So, looking at their circumstances at the time, I think Mr and Mrs W couldve found PPI 
useful and it was suitable for them. 
There were some policy exclusions and limitations. But it doesnt look as if that wouldve 
affected Mr and Mrs W. So, I dont think having more information about things that the policy 
didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Mr and Mrs Ws decision to take out PPI. 
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. I dont know how the PPI cost was explained. But Mr and Mrs W 
havent complained about the policy being unaffordable for them when they signed up to it. 
Mr and Mrs W paid for this policy each month. So they couldve cancelled it at any time 
without incurring any extra cost if their circumstances changed and they didnt want to 
continue paying for it. 
Taking everything into account I think Mr and Mrs W probably still wouldve decided to buy 
the policy even if theyd been better informed as it couldve provided useful protection in their 
particular situation. I dont think its likely that having clearer information wouldve put them 
off buying it. 
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs W told us, including 
what theyve said in response to the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr and Mrs W said that Halifax has already paid them compensation for mis-selling them 
endowment mortgages and theyve suggested that it follows they were likely mis-sold PPI at 
the same branch. 
But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that 
apply in this particular case concerning the PPI sold with this mortgage. 
So this doesnt change my conclusion. 
On balance, I dont find theres enough information for me to say that Mr and Mrs W have 
lost out as a result of anything Halifax did wrong when it sold them this PPI. 
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
In my decision I've concentrated on dealing with the main points raised that affect the 
outcome of this complaint. I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. 
But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman