DRN-2340599
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc registered a charge on his property 
without his consent. Mr B would like an investigation and compensation for loss of rental 
income, the cost of council tax and the impact this matter has had on his health.
What happened
Mr B bought a property without the assistance of a mortgage. It has been rented out since. 
In 2019 Mr B sold the property which was to have completed on 20 December of that year 
but was told by RBS that it registered a charge on the property in 1998. Over a period of 12 
weeks of phone calls, Mr B says that he couldnt get a satisfactory explanation from RBS as 
to why the charge was registered. Mr B said that this has had a huge effect on his health as 
hes suffered anxiety, headaches and huge stress waiting to get this resolved before he 
could sell the house. Mr B also suffered financially as a result.
RBS accepted that the charge should be removed and on 3 January says that it confirmed 
that it removed the charge via the Land Registrys online portal. But this charge was 
ineligible for removal through the online portal. RBS then issued a paper-based instruction 
for removal of the charge to Mr Bs solicitors. There were also problems with this, and the 
charge wasnt removed until the 25 February 2020. RBS accepted that the delay in removing 
the charge had caused Mr B stress and inconvenience and paid him £250 compensation for 
that. It also offered to reimburse Mr B any costs he incurred if they were a sole and direct 
result of the delays. Our investigator felt that the offer from RBS was fair and didnt 
recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The problem here is that when Mr B came to sell his property at the end of 2019, there was 
a charge on his property to RBS. Mr B never borrowed any money from RBS and RBS didnt 
loan Mr B any money so the reason for the charge is a mystery. Im sure that this was 
initially troubling to Mr B. Ive seen a few possible explanations for the charge being on the 
property, but they appear to be only guesswork and there appears to be no definitive 
explanation. The problem for Mr B was that there was a charge registered on the property 
when he came to sell it. RBS accepted that it wasnt owed money and agreed to remove the 
charge, but the removal took longer than it should have done. So, RBS also agreed to pay 
any costs incurred because of this delay.
The sale of this property depended on RBS removing its charge and this took some time for 
RBS to do. That was due to administrative issues it had with processing the application 
through the Land Registry. I can see that this may have been stressful for Mr B and selling a 
house is recognised as a stressful time. Mr B should be compensated for the trouble and 
upset he experienced at the time. 
In order to arrive at an appropriate figure for that, I have to put this in context as to what level 
of trouble and upset it would be reasonable to expect from these events. This wasnt a case 
where there was a dispute about whether money was owed on the charge and if the 
borrower had concerns whether the charge would ever be lifted and if the sale would ever go 
through. Mr B knew he owed no money to RBS.  After the matter was drawn to RBSs 
attention, it agreed that it would remove the charge. It would have been clear to Mr Bs 
solicitor and to Mr B and presumably to Mr Bs purchaser from the beginning of January that 
the charge would be removed as the holder of the charge had agreed to do it. Its reasonable 
to assume that Mr B would have been reassured by this knowledge even if there was some 
delay thereafter in RBS effecting the removal of the charge. So, I appreciate that some initial 
concern was reasonable on Mr Bs behalf and no doubt annoyance at RBSs actual failure to 
get the matter sorted quicker than it did. But Mr B also had the reassurance that the charge-
holder was committed to removing the charge. 
So, in terms of compensation I agree with RBS and our investigator that the amount of £250 
represents appropriate compensation for Mr Bs trouble and upset. RBS should also 
reimburse any costs directly caused by the delay in completion if these are properly vouched 
together with interest at 8% pa on those costs. Those costs relate to the period after 13 
January, when it was reasonable to expect RBS to have removed the charge, and 3 March 
2020. This should include the cost of any council tax on the property paid by Mr B for that 
period and the cost of any phone calls by Mr B to RBS related to this issue. Although the 
property was normally rented, I dont consider the loss of rent to be a cost as I expect the 
property wasnt to be rented out pending sale. As RBS previously offered this compensation 
and as I havent increased the level of the compensation, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman