DRN-4304568
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Euroins AD (Euroins) declined his travel insurance claim.
Any reference to Euroins includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr H took out a single trip Super Plus travel insurance policy. Euroins is the underwriter. 
The policy started on 9 July 2022 and ended on 15 July 2022. 
Separate policies were taken out for Mr Hs wife and his two sons.
Mr H and his family went on their trip in July 2022. On the last day of their trip, they went to a 
water park and left their personal belongings (including passports) in a locker. The items 
were unfortunately stolen. The theft was reported to the local police and to the travel 
representative.
As one of Mr Hs sons wasnt 16 years old, they were advised to wait a few days until he was 
16 to get a temporary passport. Otherwise, the process couldve taken up to six weeks. The 
family extended their trip and paid for an additional 6 days accommodation and rescheduled 
their return flights.
They submitted two claims when they returned to the UK  one on their travel insurance and 
one on their home insurance. The home insurance claim was settled for £806 which was 
around 90% of their total claim. It didnt settle for the additional accommodation, the change 
in flights and the passports and referred Mr H to his travel insurance policy.
In September 2022, Euroins settled claims for airpods (under the separate policies for the 
other family members and declined the claim for the additional accommodation, the cost of 
the change in flights and the temporary passports. It issued a final response in March 2023 
and maintained that the claim was declined. 
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. 
She said under the terms and conditions of Mr Hs travel policy, the claim wasnt covered. 
She also recommended that Euroins pay Mr H £75 for the poor service it provided.
Mr H disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of the travel policy as this forms the basis 
of his contract with Euroins.
Page 8 of the policy document sets out whats covered under the section Loss of travel 
documents:
We will pay up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for:
1. costs in obtaining a replacement passport or travel document (you are not covered 
for the cost of the document itself) to enable you to return to your home country 
following accidental loss or theft.
Having considered the above, the actual cost of the passport isnt covered under this 
section. 
Ive also looked through the other sections of the policy to see if there is cover for the 
additional accommodation and the cost of the change in flights. However, I cant see that 
there is. 
Mr H is also unhappy about the delays and the service provided by Euroins. 
Having looked at the available evidence, its clear that Euroins caused delays of 
approximately 7 weeks in providing an answer to his claim. While I appreciate that it could 
have provided a quicker answer, the timescale isnt entirely unreasonable as it kept Mr H 
updated during this time. Euroins also missed Mr Hs complaint point about delays and it 
wasnt acknowledged until our investigator started to look into it.  
I agree that Euroins could have handled the claim better. However, taking everything into 
account, I think £75 compensation for the poor service is fair and reasonable. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Euroins declined Mr Hs claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. And I think £75 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Hs complaint, within 28 days from the date we tell it that Mr H accepts our 
final decision, I direct Euroins to put things right as follows:
Pay Mr H £75 compensation for the poor service it provided.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mr Hs complaint about Euroins AD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman