DRN-2481474
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about some cracked tiles in his bathroom. He says they were caused by 
contractors appointed by AXA Insurance UK Plc who dealt with a claim under his home 
insurance policy.
All references to AXA include their appointed agents.
What happened
Mr Hs bathroom window was damaged during a storm in February 2020. He made a 
claim on his home insurance which was accepted by AXA.
 
As part of the claim investigation AXA said the lintel had been installed incorrectly 
and would need to be replaced before it could refit the window. Mr H arranged this, 
and AXA replaced the window in June 2020.
Mr H says he discovered cracked tiles in his bathroom after the window was fitted. 
He sent photos of the damage to AXA. AXA turned down the evidence as it said the 
damage was pre-existing to the claim.
Mr H wasnt happy about this and he complained to AXA.
AXA said it had turned down the damage to the tiles because it wasnt consistent 
with replacing the window. AXA said it had spoken to the contractor (E) who had 
confirmed the damage was pre-existing.
Mr H didnt agree and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator attempted to mediate an outcome where both 
parties paid 50% of the costs of the replacement tiles. Neither party agreed to this. 
So our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it couldnt 
on balance be shown that E caused the damage. This was because there was a job 
report completed by E, highlighting the damage to the tiles as being pre-existing.
Mr H doesnt agree, he says AXAs contractor caused the damage.
The complaint has now been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Mr H has sent photos of his bathroom showing the cracked tiles and the wider area 
after the window fitting. Mr H and the contractor who fitted the lintel have said there 
was no damage to the tiles before the window fitting.
AXA has said its contractor didnt take any photos of the damaged area as its remit 
was to replace the window as a specialised glazing expert. It wasnt required to 
scope out or adjust the claim. I find this reasonable.
As there are no photos of the tiles from before the incident, I need to make a decision 
on the balance of probabilities. In other words what I think most likely happened here. 
In making this decision Ive considered Mr Hs photos, Es report from the day the 
window was fitted, and AXAs surveyors comments about the claim.
The surveyors comments highlight that the lintel replacement was the more intrusive 
work. And E was only required to replace the window into its original fixing, so would 
have had minimal reason to interact with the inside sill where the tiles cracked. He 
also suggests the cracks appear to be as a result of a downward impact which isnt 
consistent with pushing a window into place. 
In addition, Es report from the day the window was fitted states, Tiles at either 
corner on bottom pre-crackedUpvc window fitted as per instruction. 
Looking at the photos of the tiles, Ive not seen anything to explain how E couldve 
caused the damage shown by fitting a window. I am persuaded by the surveyors 
comments which suggest the damage seems more akin to an impact of some sort, or 
possibly an external structural force.
Having reviewed everything, Im not convinced that E wouldve caused the damage 
shown, and I think its more likely than not the damage was caused by other means. 
So I cannot fairly conclude that E is responsible for the damage to the tiles. 
While I understand Mr Hs view that E caused the damage, and his frustration, I 
agree with AXAs decision to turn down the damage to the tiles.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman