DRN-3365941
The complaint
Mrs E has complained through her representative  Mr E  that she didnt get a replacement 
car when she claimed under her car insurance policy, which was arranged for her by 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited, following the theft of her car. 
What happened
Mrs Es car was stolen and she claimed under her car insurance policy. Through Hastings 
she asked her insurer for a courtesy car  and was told she wasnt entitled to one. This was 
because, whilst she had Hastings Premier Cover, which included a replacement car in 
certain circumstances, these did not include when her car had been stolen. To get one in 
this situation Mrs E would have needed to have purchased an optional extra called 
enhanced substitute vehicle cover. When Mrs E said she wasnt happy about this she was 
passed through to Hastings customer service department and substitute vehicle cover was 
added. This actually generated a refund of premium, as opposed to costing extra. When Mrs 
E then called to ask for a substitute vehicle she was told she couldnt have one because the 
cover had started after her car had been stolen. 
Mrs E complained to Hastings. They apologised for the confusion around adding the 
substitute vehicle cover and explained this was due to a misunderstanding by their agent. 
And it should have been made clear to Mrs E she couldnt have a substitute vehicle following 
the theft of her car, as this had happened before the substitute vehicle cover started. 
Hastings paid Mrs E £40 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed 
experienced because of this. 
Mrs E wasnt happy with Hastings response and Mr E asked us to consider her complaint. 
Hes said that Hastings marketing literature is misleading as it gives the impression a 
replacement vehicle will be provided under the Premier Cover and it doesnt make it clear 
this is only in certain circumstances. He said he and Mrs E wanted Hastings to cover the 
cost of a hire car whilst they were waiting to get the amount due in settlement of their claim 
and pay Mrs E more compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr E also asked us to consider a complaint from Mrs E about problems with her receiving 
what was due in settlement of her claim. But, as she hadnt actually complained about this 
prior to submitting her complaint to us and this would be her insurers responsibility anyway, 
were dealing with this separately. 
One of our investigators considered Mrs Es complaint. She said that we couldnt consider 
Hastings marketing in general terms, but that she felt Hastings had done enough to make it 
clear to Mrs E that replacement car cover did not apply when her car was stolen. She 
pointed out that whilst Mrs Es welcome letter, sent to her when she took out the policy 
through Hastings, did mention that she had replacement car cover, it also said she should 
refer to her policy document for full details of cover. And this set out the situations when she 
would not get a replacement car, including when her car was stolen. 
Mr E has said he and Mrs E dont agree with the investigators assessment and have asked 
for an ombudsmans decision. Hes said Hastings needed to provide Mrs E with clear, fair 
and not misleading information when marketing and selling her policy. And they hadnt done 
this because their literature did not make the limited extent of replacement car cover clear 
enough.
I asked Mr E if Mrs E hired a car once she realised she wouldnt get a replacement vehicle 
from Hastings. Hes said she did and hes provided an invoice for one week of hire at 
£588.45. Hes said that for the rest of the time Mrs E had to get buses, taxis or walk. 
When providing this information Mr E suggested Mrs E should get the hire rate of £73.45 per 
day for the period she was without a car and a significant amount for the stress she endured 
during the claim. And he has suggested an award based on his professional rate as a Senior 
Compliance Officer.  
I also wrote to Hastings and explained I didnt think their sales process was clear enough on 
the limited provision of a courtesy car. And theyve come back with comments on this and to 
provide more detail on the sales process Mrs E went through. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say that I agree with Mr E that Hastings had to provide Mrs E with clear, fair 
and not misleading information throughout the sales process, including in any marketing 
material. This included putting Mrs E in a position to make an informed decision on whether 
the policy she was purchasing was right for her. 
Hastings have now provided details of the sales journey Mrs E went through. Theyve shown 
she went through a comparison site. On this, when she clicked on the Hastings Direct 
quotation that came up, shed have seen one of the policy features listed was a courtesy car. 
There was no reference at all to this being in limited circumstances. So, I can see why Mrs E 
would have gone ahead with the quote thinking shed get a courtesy car in all circumstances 
when her car was unavailable to her due to an insured event, including if it was stolen. 
Once she decided to go ahead with the Hastings quote Mrs E would have been taken to 
Hastings website. At this point shed have seen a basic details screen and this listed the 
benefits of her comprehensive cover with Hastings. Under this at the very top with a green 
tick next to it was Courtesy car  replacement vehicle while your car is being repaired. This 
could perhaps have alerted Mrs E to the fact that she would only get a courtesy car while her 
car was being repaired. But I dont think it is clear enough for two reasons. Firstly, it does not 
state clearly that this would be the only time Mrs E would get a courtesy car. Secondly, this 
isnt actually the only time Mrs E would have got one, as it seems that she would also have 
been entitled to one if her car was written off, ie uneconomic to repair in an accident that 
wasnt her fault. Although, from the copy policy document Hastings have provided to us, the 
policyholder would only get a replacement/courtesy vehicle if they used one of the insurers 
approved repairers and only while their car is being repaired, not if it is written off, 
irrespective of whether this was due to a fault or non-fault accident.  
Next Mrs E would have had to go through an optional extras section and she would have 
been taken through various optional extras that she could choose to purchase. One of these 
was entitled Add enhanced substitute vehicle cover?
This said the following:
If youre in an accident thats your fault, your car policy will provide a substitute vehicle while yours is being repaired  but not if the vehicles a write off. Substitute vehicle cover gives 
you a hire car of equivalent engine size to yours, in the event that yours is damaged, stolen 
not recovered or written off.
For fault accidents, write offs, fire, theft and attempted theft
However, for me, the problem is that once Mrs E thought she had a courtesy car as part of 
her cover she wouldnt have necessarily felt the need to read the details of the substitute 
vehicle cover. And this is confusing anyway when read in conjunction with the policy, which 
makes no distinction on courtesy cars between fault and non-fault accidents.  
In my view, the problem with Hastings sales process is that it simply doesnt make it clear 
enough that a courtesy car is only provided in limited circumstances. And I think this 
understandably left Mrs E thinking that she would get a courtesy car until her claim for her 
car was settled one way or another. 
Hastings have pointed out that in their sales screen there was also a link to the full policy 
terms and conditions, which Mrs E could have read. And these made the position regarding 
a courtesy car clear. But Mrs E shouldnt have had to have read the full terms and conditions 
to be able to make an informed decision on whether the policy she was purchasing was right 
for her. She should be able to do this through significant terms, including limitations, being 
highlighted in the sales process. 
I also appreciate Mrs E could have read the policy document once shed taken out the 
policy. But  again  this doesnt mean that if Hastings failed to fulfil their obligations at point 
of sale, Mrs E should be penalised for not reading a 100 page policy document having 
purchased what she thought was a suitable policy for her.  
It therefore follows, that Im not persuaded Hastings met its obligations to Mrs E when it sold 
the policy to her to put her in a position to make an informed decision on whether it was right 
for her. And, I think if it had done this, shed have realised she needed to purchase the 
substitute vehicle cover and done so at the outset. This means shed have been provided 
with a substitute vehicle when her car was stolen. 
Putting things right
Mrs E wasnt provided with a substitute vehicle and decided to hire one for a week instead. 
As Ive already mentioned, Mr E has provided an invoice for one weeks hire at £588.45. And 
I think Hastings should reimburse this, as it is for a similar vehicle to the one Mrs E had 
insured under her policy, albeit not the exact same make and model. But, Hastings can 
deduct what it would have cost Mrs E to add enhanced substitute vehicle cover to her policy 
from the outset for the full year. This is because Im satisfied that if Hastings had fulfilled 
their obligations to put Mrs E in a position to make an informed decision she would have 
chosen this option and paid extra for it. 
I also think Hastings should pay a further amount for distress and inconvenience to 
compensate Mrs E for the fact she was without a car for a period of time. And because she 
endured some distress and inconvenience because of the poor service provided by them in 
giving her the impression she could have a substitute vehicle when this turned out not to be 
the case. However, I do not agree with Mr E that this should be based on his professional 
rate. We are an informal dispute resolution service and our awards for distress and 
inconvenience reflect the extent we think this was experienced by the complainant. They do 
not reflect the professional fees of those they choose to represent them or what it would 
have cost them to hire a vehicle when this isnt actually what they did for the period in 
question. Having considered the matter, Ive decided to award a further £200 to Mrs E. This is on top 
of the £40 Hastings have already paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay Mrs E £588.45 to reimburse her hire costs, plus 
a further £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman