DRN-3784188
The complaint
Mr W complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) lent to him irresponsibly since he was 
experiencing financial difficulties at the time he applied for the loan.
Ms W brings the complaint on behalf of her son but I will refer to Mr W for ease. 
What happened
Mr W has mental health issues which means he can be impulsive. 
Mr W took out a loan of £7,500 with Santander in July 2020. At that time Mr W says he had 
debts on two credit cards, and another loan from a different provider.  Mr W had missed 
payments, or made late payments, on all of those accounts. Mr W says the credit card 
companies reduced his credit limit and froze the cards. 
When Mr W applied for the loan Santander approved it within around 7 minutes. Mr W says 
if there had been an actual person doing the necessary credit checks for a loan they would 
have seen his poor credit history and the loan would not have been approved. 
Mr W says if Santander had looked at his current account and how it was run it would have 
seen he had an overdraft of £600 that he regularly goes over. 
Since taking out the loan he has been unable to keep up with the repayments and says his 
mental health has deteriorated. And so he complained to Santander and wants it to write the 
debt off since it shouldnt have loaned him that amount in the first place. 
Santander said the application was a system-based acceptance based on the credit checks 
carried out and the information provided by Mr W during the application. It said Mr W told it 
his income was £1,500 per month. Santander said Mr W had a 14-day cooling off period 
from when the loan was paid into his account to repay and cancel the loan without penalty. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint saying it couldnt see any error had been made. It did 
refer Mr W to its vulnerable assist team who would manage Mr Ws account. 
Mr W wasnt happy with Santanders response to his complaint. And so he referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. The investigator looked into things for him. He said 
he thought Santander had made proportionate checks when considering Mr Ws loan 
application but thought what the checks highlighted should have prompted it to make further 
enquiries. If it had done so it would have seen Mr W was struggling with repayments on 
other lines of credit. And that his account was regularly over the overdraft limit. The 
investigator said in order to put things right Santander should refund Mr W all fees and 
interest, and deduct any repayments made from the total loan amount. He also said 
Santander should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ws credit file. 
Santander agreed to settle the complaint as outlined by the investigator apart from the 
removal of the adverse data. 
Mr W agreed with the investigators outcome but said the loan should also be reduced by 
around half. 
Since neither party agreed with the investigators outcome the complaint has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
themselves that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. 
Where reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out I need to consider if the 
lending decision was fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I 
need to consider if the loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
In looking at the complaint I need to look at whether Santander acted unfairly or 
inappropriately in how it dealt with the situation including recording the missed payments on 
Mr Ws credit file.
There is no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the loan being applied for, 
as well as the borrowers personal circumstance at the time of the application. 
The loan 
Mr W doesnt dispute applying for, or signing the paperwork for, the loan. But he says given 
his personal circumstances Santander shouldnt have approved him for the loan in the first 
place. Santander wasnt aware of Mr Ws health issues at the time of the application, and 
they only came to light when the complaint was made. Santander said the application was 
for £7,500 over three years for a used car. It said the customer was an existing customer 
and was system-accepted, passing all credit and affordability checks at the time. Santander 
also said Mr W declared a net monthly income of £1,500 with outgoings of £350 showing the 
loan repayments were affordable. And so was accepted for the loan. 
Santander said since the application was system accepted it didnt undertake any additional 
checks such as requesting bank statements or payslips. 
When looking at Mr Ws application Santander had an obligation to consider all of the 
factors. So while it said the loan was affordable to Mr W at the time, the issue with Mr W 
being one payment in arrears on a credit card, and several missed payments on other 
accounts in the 6 months prior to the loan application shouldve indicated to Santander that 
the affordability may not be sustainable. So I wouldve expected Santander to carry out more 
checks before deciding whether to approve the loan. 
The bank statements Mr W has provided show a number of payments which appear to be for 
repayment of credit or betting sites. There is also a credit union loan payment made the 
month before Mr W applied for the loan with Santander. And so Im satisfied that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would likely have shown that Mr W was more likely than not to be 
unable to sustainably repay what he was being lent. In the absence of anything else, I think 
the bank statements for the three months before the loan was approved give a good indication of what Santander would likely have discovered if it had asked about Mr Ws 
expenditure. 
The credit file 
I can appreciate Mr W may be keen to avoid his credit file being impacted at a time when he 
is struggling to make payments towards the loan and other lines of credit. And he may feel 
aggrieved since he doesnt believe he should have been provided with the loan but it has 
impacted his credit file. 
Santander, like all credit providers, have an obligation to report accurate information to credit 
reference agencies. Santander appear to have been doing that here. I can understand Mr W 
may have been dismayed to see missed payments being reported to his credit file. 
But since I dont think Santander would have approved the loan in the first place the right 
thing to do here is to put the customer back in the position he would have been in had the 
loan not been approved. And so I dont agree that the credit file should remain as it is. 
I note Mr W wants the loan amount to be reduced by half. But Mr W has had the benefit of 
the loan to repay other debts elsewhere. And so its right that he repays the amount he 
borrowed. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Santander need to; 
Remove all interest, fees, and charges added to the loan since inception,
Total all of the payments Mr W paid toward the loan and deduct this amount from the 
amount he borrowed;
If this means Mr W has paid more than he borrowed, Santander should refund this 
amount to him, along with 8% simple interest a year from the date of the payments to 
the date of the refund*. But if this means Mr W still owes Santander any money, then 
it should work with him to agree a suitable repayment plan. 
Additionally Santander should arrange for all records and associated adverse credit 
entries relating to the loan to be removed from Mr Ws credit file. 
It should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mr W has accepted my final decision. 
*HMRC requires Santander to take off tax from the interest, Santander must give Mr W a certificate 
showing how much tax has been taken off, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to put 
things right by doing what Ive said above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman