DRN-3104731
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the support offered by Sainsburys Bank Plc when she experienced 
financial difficulty. 
As a resolution to her complaint, Miss C wants her interest rate to be waived or reduced for 
18 months, the interest she was charged whilst unemployed refunded, compensation for the 
time shes spent dealing with these matters and the annoyance shes been caused.
What happened
Miss C had a loan and credit card account with Sainsburys. Miss C was adversely affected 
by the COVID-19 pandemic. She lost her job around the beginning of the pandemic (March 
2020) and was unemployed for around six months.
Miss C requested and had a three-month COVID-19 payment deferral applied in April 2020 
on both accounts. This meant while interest could still be charged, she wouldnt need to 
make any repayments and her credit file wouldnt be adversely affected. This was later 
extended until October 2020. In September 2020 Miss C asked Sainsburys for a persistent 
debt pay down plan and to either waive or lower the interest she was paying on her credit 
card account. She also asked Sainsburys to reschedule her loan repayments over a longer 
period at a lower interest rate.
Sainsburys completed an income and expenditure form with Miss C and she also provided 
her own breakdown. She explained that within 18 months her financial situation would 
improve when other liabilities were paid off. She asked for a persistent debt pay down plan 
to be put in place - but Sainsburys didnt agree to this request. 
Instead, they offered a formal repayment arrangement which would be reported to the 
relevant credit reference agencies as the credit card account wasnt in a persistent debt 
situation at that time. Sainsburys didnt agree to restructure the loan as they said the 
repayments wouldve been unaffordable. 
Miss C says Sainsburys havent offered her flexible or tailored support. Miss C also says 
because Sainsburys delayed responding to her requests, she was late making payments in 
October/November 2020 and her credit file has been adversely affected. 
Miss C complained to Sainsburys and they issued their final response in December 2020. 
They didnt find that theyd done anything wrong in relation to the support offered, but they 
accepted the service provided when not calling Miss C back as agreed wasnt good enough 
and offered her £125 compensation. 
Miss C remained dissatisfied and referred her complaint to our Service for an independent 
review. Our investigator considered her complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. As 
Miss C didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
Miss C, it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Ill address the main areas of this complaint under the headings below.
The payment deferrals  
Its positive that Sainsburys agreed to the initial COVID-19 payment deferral when 
requested by Miss C. This was positive and supportive. 
I also find it was reasonable in Miss Cs circumstances that they agreed to extend the 
payment deferrals by a further three months when requested. I say this because, whilst 
interest would continue to accrue on the credit card account, as Miss C wasnt working her 
repayment options were limited at that point. It also appears (based on the available 
evidence) that Miss C favoured support options that wouldnt adversely affect her credit file.
The support offered after the payment deferrals ended  the loan
Miss C contacted Sainsburys again as her payment deferral periods were ending. She 
wanted her loan restructured and the interest rate lowered. Sainsburys carried out an 
income and expenditure assessment. Theyve explained that to have the loan rescheduled, 
the going forward monthly repayment needed to be at least 50% of the current monthly 
repayment. After the assessment was carried out, Sainsburys calculated that 
Miss C wouldnt have had enough disposable income to cover it. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call between Miss C and Sainsburys during which the 
income and expenditure figures were discussed. Although Miss C reached a different figure 
for her disposable income, Ive not heard anything to suggest that Sainsburys did anything 
wrong when completing this assessment and reaching their ultimate decision that Miss C 
didnt have enough disposable income to meet the potential rescheduled loan repayment at 
that time. 
Its Sainsburys own lending decision, taking into account their income and expenditure 
assessment that is key here - not what Miss C considers the criteria for the income and 
expenditure assessment should be.
I understand that Miss C strongly disputes this figure with Sainsburys and our Service. 
Shes provided her own breakdown of what she felt the disposable income figure should be 
- and Ive considered that evidence but remain of the opinion that Sainsburys havent 
treated her unfairly when completing their assessment. 
Part of Miss Cs complaint is about the interest rates Sainsburys offer new customers versus 
the rates available to existing customers. The interest rates offered are a commercial 
decision for Sainsburys to make and not something I can fairly interfere with. However, I can 
consider if Sainsburys have treated Miss C fairly and reasonably overall - and Ive 
concluded that they have - as they offered reasonable, alternative support that Miss C wasnt 
prepared to accept. Sainsburys had a responsibility to support customers struggling with financial difficulties in a 
positive and sympathetic way. However, this doesnt mean that they have to agree to 
everything that a customer proposes. 
The credit card 
For her credit card, Miss C wanted a waiving of interest or a lower interest rate. Sainsburys 
says a persistent debt plan would normally be put in place once a customer has been in 
persistent debt for 36 months. At the time of Miss Cs request, shed been in persistent debt 
for around 18 months. So I dont find that theyve done anything wrong in not agreeing to a 
persistent debt plan at the time Miss C requested it. 
Whilst Miss C felt aggrieved with the letters Sainsburys sent recommending she increase 
her repayments to avoid a persistent debt situation, I dont find that theyve done anything 
wrong in sending them and followed the relevant rules to try and avoid the persistent debt 
situation deteriorating.
Instead, Sainsburys offered to explore a short-term payment arrangement with Miss C. 
Typically, these arrangements can include agreements to suspend interest with an agreed 
(usually lower) repayment amount. However, based on what Ive seen and heard, Miss C 
was not open to this option as it would be reported to the credit reference agencies and she 
felt this could cause her issues with gaining future employment. I consider this repayment 
arrangement was a fair and supportive measure to offer to Miss C.
I can understand from Miss Cs perspective she felt a repayment plan might negatively 
impact her credit file and (potentially) future employment prospects. But on the other hand, 
Sainsburys have a responsibility to accurately report a fair reflection of their customers 
accounts to the relevant reference agencies where such support is offered in a deviation to 
the agreed terms of the loan/credit card. This applies to all customers, not just Miss C
The service offered
Sainsburys offered Miss C £125 compensation for not calling her back when agreed on more 
than one occasion. Whilst understandably frustrating for Miss C, I consider this offer fair, 
reasonable and proportionate - relative to the impact on her, and dont direct Sainsburys to 
do anything further here in relation to the service provided or inconvenience caused.
Ive noted Miss C has referred to delays in responding to her meaning she was late making 
payments and her credit file has been impacted. But Miss C had a responsibility to ensure 
payments were made on time. Sainsburys also have a responsibility to report data that 
accurately reflects the status of a customers account to the relevant credit reference 
agencies. 
Overall
My decision brings to an end what our Service  in trying to informally resolve Miss Cs 
dispute with Sainsburys, can do for her.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman