DRN-1994879
 
The complaint
Ms N has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her two packaged bank 
accounts. She paid monthly fees for both accounts and received several potential benefits in 
return. She thinks that Lloyds should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Ms N has banked with Lloyds for about 15 years. Lloyds has looked at its records for her, 
which I believe to be reliable, and it has told us they show that: 
in 2005, she opened a fee-free account called a Classic account
in 2006, it sold her a Select account, for which it charged her a fee 
in 2009, it sold her a Gold account, for which it charged her a higher fee.
Ms N seems to have agreed with this account history, and I have taken it to be accurate, but 
she thinks Lloyds mis-sold her both the Select and the Gold accounts. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Ns complaint, but didnt think that Lloyds 
had mis-sold the Select account to her and thought that she had left it too late to complain 
about the Gold account for us to investigate what had happened. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Lloyds should give Ms N any money back. Ms N 
didnt agree with the adjudicators findings about either account and asked for an 
ombudsman to review her case. So it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Ms N and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive 
decided that I dont have authority to consider the way Lloyds sold the Gold account to her, 
and that I wont uphold her complaint about the Select account. Ill explain why, but as my 
findings for the two accounts are quite different, I will treat them separately.
the Gold account
The Financial Conduct Authority has set time limits about when we can look into complaints. 
One of these limits says that unless a business give us its consent, we can only look into a 
complaint if a consumer makes it within six years of the event being complained about (the 
six-year rule); or, if it gives a consumer more time, within three years of the time when the 
consumer should reasonably have been aware of the problem (the three-year rule).
 
Lloyds sold the Gold account to Ms N in 2009, and she has told us that she complained in 
2019, so its clear that the complaint was outside the limit set by six-year rule. 
Ms N has said that she complained after watching a TV programme about packaged bank 
accounts in 2019, and that this was when she first discovered Lloyds might have mis-sold 
the Gold account to her. So, she believes she complained within the time allowed by the 
three-year rule. 
However, Lloyds has told us that it wrote to Ms N about the Gold account each year from 
2014 onwards and gave her sufficient information in these letters to make her aware that she 
could have complained. Im satisfied that Lloyds probably did send these letters to Ms N and 
I have seen examples of some of them, so I have considered if the letters did give Ms N 
sufficient information to let her know that she may have had grounds to complain. 
Two of the potential benefits of the Gold account were a car breakdown service and travel 
insurance. Amongst other things, Ms N has complained (for both the Gold and the Select 
accounts) that she didnt need either of these as she already had car breakdown cover 
included in car insurance and had travel insurance from another country. Lloyds letters 
listed these quite prominently as potential benefits of the Gold account, so it seems to me 
that they were sufficient to let Ms N know that she may have had grounds to complain in 
2014. So I think she complained outside the time allowed by the three-year rule.
We are allowed to consider complaints we receive after the time limits have passed if the 
delay was caused by exceptional circumstances, but I havent seen any such circumstances 
in this case. So as Lloyds has declined to give us its consent, I cant look into the way it sold 
Gold account to Ms N.
(For completeness, I would like to add that Lloyds has given us its consent to consider Ms 
Ns complaint about the way it sold the Select account).
the Select account
Both Lloyds and Ms N have told us that it advised her to buy the Select account during a 
meeting at one of its branches. In an advised sale like this, I would have expected Lloyds to 
check that the account was a reasonable match for Ms Ns needs and financial situation, tell 
her about its benefits and cost clearly and fairly, and give her a choice about buying it. 
Neither party has sent us any detailed notes of what happened during the meeting, which is 
not surprising after such a long time has passed, so I cant tell for sure Lloyds what did or 
didnt say to Ms N. So to see if its advice was reasonable, Ive looked at the potential 
benefits of the account and compared them with what I know about Ms Ns circumstances at 
the time.
In 2006, the potential benefits of the Select account included car breakdown cover, 
insurance for mobile phones and commission-free foreign currency exchange. Lloyds also 
offered customers with Select accounts potentially cheaper overdrafts than it gave to 
customers with fee-free accounts. 
I understand that Ms N drove a car and used a mobile phone, so these benefits may have 
been of use to her. Ms N is not British, and I gather she travelled to her home country from 
time-to-time, so the commission-free currency exchange may also have been of interest. I 
think it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the Select account to her. 
I also think its highly likely that Lloyds told Ms N about these benefits, after all it was trying 
to sell the account to her, so it was in its own interest to tell her what she could gain.
The fees for the Select account would appear on Ms Ns statement and I think its highly 
likely that Lloyds told her about them during the meeting. Indeed, Ms N has accepted this, shes told us that Lloyds prepared her that she would need to pay. And as Ms N had held a 
fee-free account prior to the meeting, I doubt that Lloyds denied her the choice to keep it. 
Ms N has also told us that Select account never helped her to obtain a mortgage as 
promised or helped her to get a better credit score. I agree with her that having a Select 
account was very unlikely to do either of these things. But I havent seen anything to make 
me think that Lloyds told her it would. Lloyds may have discussed with Ms N how managing 
an account well (for example, by staying within an arranged overdraft limit) could improve 
her chances of getting credit, but this isnt the same as saying that buying the Select account 
would allow her to have a mortgage or improve her credit score. 
Ms N has also specifically complained that the account duplicated her travel insurance, but 
unlike the Gold account, the Select account didnt provide this benefit, so there was no 
duplication. There may have been some overlap with car breakdown cover; but as Im 
satisfied that Lloyds told Ms N about this benefit during the meeting and gave her a choice, I 
dont think it did anything significantly wrong in relation to this. 
So in summary, while I accept that Lloyds may not have got everything right in the way it 
sold the Select account to Ms N, Im satisfied that it gave her reasonable advice, told her 
about the accounts potential benefits and costs and gave her a choice about buying it.
I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Select account to Ms N.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I have not considered Ms Ns complaint that Lloyds 
Bank PLC mis-sold her the Gold account, and I am not upholding her complaint about the 
Select account. 
I am not going to tell Lloyds to give Ms N any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman