DRN-2176137
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined his home 
insurance claim after his garden wall collapsed.
background
In 2019, Mr S made a claim on his home insurance after a section of his dry-stone boundary 
wall collapsed. The wall was built in about 2005. In about 2006, his neighbour excavated soil 
from the base of their side of the wall and its this section of the wall that later collapsed. 
RSA appointed loss adjusters to assess the claim, who in turn appointed surveyors. 
The surveyors initially concluded that the wall had collapsed due to poor construction design 
and detailing, and that deterioration of the wall had occurred over time. It didnt consider the 
removal of the soil, or the recent high levels of rainfall, to be significant factors. 
Mr S commissioned his own structural engineer report, which disputed the findings of RSAs 
surveyors. Mr Ss report concluded the wall had leaned, bowed, and eventually collapsed as 
a direct result of the lowering of the ground on the neighbours side. The report highlighted 
that a significant section of the wall, where ground hadnt been lowered, was sound and 
intact.
RSAs surveyor then submitted a further report. The report observed the wall appeared to be 
built on low-shrinkage clay soil, but despite large trees near a section that hadnt collapsed, 
there was no sign of ground movement affecting the stability of the wall. The report noted 
that the wall didnt appear to have been built in strict accordance with generally accepted 
good practice and could be weaker as a result. However, it also noted the actual 
workmanship appeared to be good.
The report went on to accept that the excavation of the ground on one side of the wall was a 
major contributory factor. The report said this had weakened the ground to one side to such 
an extent that the wall leans over. 
RSA declined the claim. It explained if the construction was deficient, and that was the cause 
of the collapse, the policy excludes damage or loss caused by poor design or workmanship. 
RSA explained that if the lowering of the ground was a factor, the cause of the collapse 
would be considered subsidence or landslip. However, the policy excludes damage to 
garden walls caused by subsidence or landslip unless the main building, garages or 
outbuildings are damaged by the same cause at the same time.
Mr S brought a complaint to this service, and it was considered by one of our investigators. 
However, she didnt think RSA had unfairly declined the claim. Mr S disagreed, so the 
complaint had been passed to me decide.
Mr S has since submitted a further report by the director of the firm that built the wall. The 
report sets out the firms expertise and experience; and outlined the excavations to be the 
reason for the collapse. The report said:
- the ground has been cleared extremely close to the footing stones of the wall... 
I am confident in the belief that this has caused the ground under the wall to slump 
over time, causing the footing stones and lifts immediately above to move 
outwards and then over time causing a collapse of the stones above.
Mr Ss broker has also pointed towards a risk assessment survey that was undertaken in 
January 2019, before the wall collapsed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss policy is an all-risks policy. This essentially means that unless the loss or damage is 
caught by a policy exclusion, or a policy condition has been breached, the claim should 
succeed.
I appreciate Mr S feels strongly that the wall was not designed or built poorly. However, its 
not necessary for me to reach a finding on this point, because even if I accept what Mr S 
says here, Im satisfied the damage isnt covered by the policy. Ill explain why.
Two alternative factors have been put forward by Mr S. The main factor is the neighbours 
excavations (which RSA accepts was a major contributory factor), and the other is a high 
level of rainfall around the time the wall collapsed.
A significant amount of time passed between the soil being removed and the wall collapsing. 
As such, theres no suggestion that the excavations themselves damaged the wall. Rather 
than the wall being directly damaged by the excavations, the reports provided explain the 
works removed support from the ground below the wall on one side, leading to gradual 
movement in that ground and the wall, which in turn led, or contributed to, its collapse. 
Therefore, the question here is whether that gradual process, over about 13 years, is 
covered by the policy.
The policy defines subsidence as the downward movement of the site by a cause other than 
the weight of the building. The policy defines landslip as the sudden downward movement 
of sloping ground. RSA considered subsidence and landslip as the reported movement of 
the ground beneath the wall could reasonably fall within those definitions. However, like 
many home insurance policies, the terms specifically exclude subsidence and landslip to 
garden walls unless the main building, garage or outbuildings are being damaged by the 
same cause, at the same time  which isnt the case here.
Even if it could reasonably be argued that the movement of the ground beneath the wall isnt 
subsidence or landslip, it is something that occurred gradually in the years between the 
excavations and the walls collapse. The policy specifically excludes damage caused 
gradually. So, the walls collapse still isnt something thats covered by the policy.
Turning to the rainfall, RSA has acknowledged there were high levels around the day the 
wall collapsed. However, I havent seen anything in the expert reports which suggest this 
was the main cause, and a wall collapsing isnt damage typically caused by rainfall. I do 
accept the rainfall may have played a part in the final stages of the walls collapse, but 
because Im not persuaded the wall would have fallen without the reported design or 
excavation issues, I cant reasonably decide RSA should cover the claim.Mr Ss broker has also pointed towards a risk appraisal survey in January 2019. The survey 
identified that RSA required Mr S to increase the sum insured for the buildings so the figure 
accurately reflected the full rebuilding cost of the home and its outbuildings as well as 
including allowance for all walls, fences, driveways, paths and the like. 
The broker noted that no recommendations were made about the boundary wall following 
the survey, and he said the sum insured was increased to provide the additional cover for 
walls (along with the other listed items). So, he concluded the boundary wall was covered 
adequately and the additional premium was paid for that purpose; if not, this part of the 
increased premium was sold to Mr S under false pretentions and has prejudiced him.
I understand the point the broker makes, but simply because the issues with the wall werent 
identified during the survey, doesnt mean the cause of the damage is covered by the policy. 
In respect of the sum insured, this wasnt increased to specifically cover the walls, this was 
increased to ensure the total rebuild cost of the buildings were adequately covered if an 
insured event occurred. The boundary wall forms part of the buildings, so it was covered 
before the amendment. Regardless of the sum insured or the part of the building thats 
damaged, it follows that any claim is still subject to the policy terms.
If Mr S believes the policy was mis-sold to him, he will need to make a separate complaint to 
the party responsible for the sale, so it has an opportunity to respond. The sale isnt 
something I can consider here, as part of a complaint about RSAs claim decision.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but Im not persuaded RSA applied the terms incorrectly, or 
unfairly declined his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman