DRN-4221422
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle 
Solutions (MHCC) terminated his hire agreement.
Mr M has been represented. For clarity, Ive only referred to Mr M throughout this decision.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr M agreed to be supplied with a car from a dealership Ill refer to as D. 
Due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, there was a delay in the car being supplied to 
Mr M. In June 2020, Mr M entered into a hire agreement with MHCC to acquire the car. 
Under the agreement, Mr M was required to make an advance payment of £3,063.17, 
followed by 35 payments of £510.53. The car was supplied to Mr M in July 2020.
In September 2020, MHCC issued a notice of sum in arrears to Mr M as the advance 
payment and subsequent monthly rentals hadnt been received by MHCC. In October 2020, 
a Direct Debit was set up with Mr M to collect future repayments. MHCC issued a default 
notice to Mr M in December 2020.
Mr M let MHCC know that he had been financially impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic as he 
hadnt been working since March 2020. MHCC agreed a repayment plan with Mr M under 
which he would make four additional payments of £1,000 to repay the outstanding arrears.  
Mr M didnt make all the agreed payments under the repayment plan. Following ongoing 
communication, Mr M told MHCC he wouldnt be able to return to work until October 2021 
due to an unfortunate accident. As a result of this, MHCC terminated Mr Ms agreement in 
September 2021.
Mr M complained to MHCC and said that MHCC had failed to take the payments owed under 
the agreement for three months, but he had the funds available at the time. He said he 
offered to pay the arrears of around £2,000 to MHCC following receipt of the termination 
notice, but he said it wouldnt accept this amount as a responsible lender. Instead, he said 
MHCC terminated his agreement and told him he would need to pay an additional £7,500 on 
top of the arrears. Mr M said this wasnt the actions of a responsible lender.
In September 2021, MHCC issued its response to Mr Ms complaint. It said the invoice it 
sent Mr M clearly stated payment was due to be made by BACS. It said it sent Mr M notices 
of arrears when monthly rentals werent received from him. It said when the repayment plan 
was broken due to Mr M suffering an accident, he was unable to return to work for a number 
of months. And so, Mr M was unable to make payments towards his arears and this led to 
MHCC terminating the agreement.
MHCC also noted that Mr M entered into the agreement in June 2020 and listed himself as 
employed, but subsequently he told MHCC he hadnt been working since March 2020. It said 
had it known this, it wouldnt have progressed with the application.
Unhappy with this, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his complaint 
and said and the car was collected by MHCC without prior notice. To put things right, Mr M 
said he wanted MHCC to stop pursuing him for the additional £7,500 and to pay him 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Following this, MHCC issued a further response to Mr Ms complaint in October 2021. But 
this was the same as the previous response it issued in September 2021.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think MHCC had acted unfairly. He said 
he didnt think MHCC was responsible for the missed payments and he thought MHCC had 
treated Mr M with forbearance and due consideration when he let it know about his financial 
circumstances. He also said MHCC had terminated the agreement fairly.
Mr M disagreed. He said as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic he didnt scrutinise his bank 
account as close as he normally would have. And so, he said he didnt notice a payment 
hadnt been taken from his bank account for the initial rental. He also said he thought this 
would be paid by Direct Debit, as his previous two agreements with D had. He said he had 
an accident and so, he couldnt return to work.
As Mr M remains in disagreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 May 2023 in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr M has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. The rules of this service allow me to do this.
Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement which means our service is able to consider complaints about it.
Did MHCC unfairly terminate Mr Ms hire agreement?
What I need to decide in this case is whether MHCC acted fairly when it terminated Mr Ms 
agreement. If I think MHCC acted unfairly, Ill need to think about what, if anything, is fair to 
put things right.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms agreement say, 6.1 We may treat any of the following 
events as repudiation of this Agreement and may, by written notice to you, terminate the 
hiring under this Agreement with immediate effect (b) you fail to make any of the payments 
due under this Agreement punctually...
This means that MHCC were entitled to terminate Mr Ms agreement if he breached it, or if 
he missed payments due under the agreement. Mr M didnt pay the advance rental and 
following this, he missed three consecutive payments under the agreement.
Following MHCC issuing a default notice to Mr M in December 2020, Mr M contacted MHCC 
and explained he had been out of work since March 2020. He said he would soon be 
receiving support. Given Mr M had explained why he hadnt made any payments, MHCC 
was obliged to treat Mr M with forbearance and due consideration. So Ive considered 
whether it did this.
During the call in January 2021, MHCCs system notes show that it carried out an income 
and expenditure with Mr M to ensure he could afford to make repayments for the arrears. 
Despite this showing Mr M only had a disposable income of £50, Mr M said he would make 
the arrears payments from his savings. Im satisfied that MHCC acted with forbearance and 
due consideration when it agreed to the repayment plan that Mr M had suggested. However, 
MHCC didnt receive two payments due under this payment plan and so, Mr Ms agreement 
remined in arrears.
In June 2021, MHCC contacted Mr M to discuss the arrears. He was told Mr M was due to 
return to work in October 2020 but he had been in an accident and so, he hadnt returned to work. MHCC agreed to consider a payment plan which would have meant Mr M would be 
repaying a lower amount for six months. However Mr M told MHCC he couldnt make 
repayments until he returned to work. In September 2021, Mr M made an offer to repay the 
agreement at £100 a month until he returned to work. And following termination of the 
agreement, Mr M told MHCC he had returned to work and had borrowed the money to pay 
the arrears from a family member.
Having carefully considered this, Mr M missed a number of payments under the agreement 
and he didnt keep to the payment plan he had agreed. It was also unclear when Mr M would 
be returning to work. I note that Mr M said he borrowed funds from a family member to repay 
the agreement. However, given the arrears at the time, it would have been irresponsible for 
MHCC to allow Mr M to continue getting into further arrears, not knowing when he would be 
returning to work. So as per the terms and conditions, MHCC was entitled to terminate the 
agreement and repossess the car from Mr M.
In addition, the terms and conditions of Mr Ms agreement also say, You should carefully 
consider your ability to meet the repayments without undue difficulty during your agreement. 
You should take into account factors such as your income, your other financial commitments 
(both existing and in the future) and the impact of a future change in your personal 
circumstances. Contract hire is not suitable for you if you will not be able to make the 
repayments out of income and/or available savings (without having to borrow further or sell 
assets to meet the repayments). If after applying for credit, you become aware of a change 
or a possible change in your financial circumstances before you take out your Hire 
Agreement with us, or there is any other information (for example relating to your health) that 
you think may be relevant to our consideration of your credit application, please contact us. 
And Any breach of the Hire agreement may lead us to terminating it.
MHCC said it terminated the agreement as Mr M had declared he was in salaried 
employment and had been for a number of years at the time he entered into the agreement. 
But he later told MHCC that he hadnt been employed at the time he entered into the 
agreement, or since then and MHCC found that Mr M had a limited company instead of 
working for an employer. MHCC said the details Mr M had provided it were incorrect and so 
he was in breach of the agreement.
Mr M said a third party had told him to declare he was an employee and he had declared a 
salary as he was financially stable at the time and anticipated he would be back at work 
soon.
Having considered this carefully, Im persuaded that Mr M provided incorrect details to 
MHCC at the time he made his application. I appreciate that Mr M says some of these 
details were provided on the instruction of a third party, who isnt connected to D or MHCC. 
However, Mr M was aware he wasnt in salaried employment at the time he entered into the 
agreement. And so, he provided incorrect information to MHCC which impacted its decision 
to lend and to supply the car to him. The terms and conditions of the hire agreement allow 
MHCC to terminate the agreement when there has been a breach of the agreement. In this 
case, Im satisfied Mr M breached the agreement by providing incorrect details to MHCC at 
the time of making his application and so, MHCC was entitled to terminate Mr Ms 
agreement.
Did MHCC act unfairly or unreasonably in any other way?
The hire agreement Mr M entered into confirms that the initial rental will be collected by 
MHCC by Direct Debit following delivery of the car. MHCC has now confirmed that it made 
an admin error by setting Mr Ms account payment to BACS rather than Direct Debit. Mr Ms 
Direct Debit was only set up to start taking repayments in November 2020 by MHCC. 
Mr M says that his agreement wouldnt have fallen into arrears had MHCC taken the 
advance rental and the three following monthly payments by Direct Debit, as he had the funds available at the time. He says he had savings in his account and had no reason to 
suspect that payments werent being paid to MHCC.
Ive thought about whether Mr M has been caused a loss as a result of the error by MHCC. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded it has. Ill explain why.
I can see that Mr Ms advance rental invoice was sent to him on 27 July 2020. This stated 
that the payment method was BACS and provided the details so Mr M could make this 
payment to MHCC. However, no payment was made to MHCC and so, it sent Mr M arrears 
notices in September and October 2020 and finally a default notice in December 2020.
Whilst Mr M says he didnt scrutinise his bank statements at the time, I consider that the 
invoice and the arrears letters would have put Mr M on notice that his payments hadnt been 
made. Mr M hasnt disputed that he didnt receive the letters from MHCC and he appears to 
have received the default notice, as this led to him making his complaint. So I think it would 
have been reasonable for Mr M to have queried the advance payment invoice and the 
subsequent arrears notices.
In addition, had MHCC not made this error and Mr M paid the advance payment and the 
three subsequent monthly payments, I think its likely Mr Ms agreement would still have 
defaulted given his personal and financial circumstances at the time. And even if Im wrong 
about this, I still consider that Mr M was in breach of his agreement due to the declarations 
he made about his salary and employment at the time he entered into the agreement. And 
so, I dont think it was unfair for MHCC to terminate Mr Ms agreement.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M responded. He reiterated his complaint and also said that he wasnt told by MHCC to 
reconsider whether he needed the car bearing in mind the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
He said in May 2022, he suffered from a sudden unexpected medical emergency. This 
resulted in an expected recovery time of one year. Mr M provided medical evidence to 
support this. He also said that he continued to make all his other regular payments, including 
payments to his other car lease, and so its speculation whether he would have still defaulted 
or not.  
MHCC didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Further correspondence following the provisional decision
I reviewed the comments made by Mr M in light of my provisional decision. The medical 
evidence provided confirms the extent and the impact of Mr Ms sudden unexpected 
emergency. Im sorry to hear that this happened to Mr M. 
In light of this, I wrote to both Mr M and MHCC. I explained that Id reviewed the further 
information supplied in response to my provisional decision and having done so, I was 
minded to depart from my provisional decision and uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I explained I was minded to do this because Mr M had two medical incidents after he entered 
into the agreement. One was an injury shortly after the agreement was taken out and since 
then he suffered a medical emergency in May 2022. Both these medical incidents, alongside 
Mr M being out of work due to Covid-19, contributed to Mr M being unable to work for a 
significant period of time whilst he had the agreement. However, despite this, Mr M 
maintained all his repayments under the agreement between November 2020 and 
September 2021. The only arrears Mr M was unable to fully pay were unpaid as a result of 
an error made by MHCC in setting Mr Ms agreement up to collect payments by BACS 
instead of Direct Debit. Mr M managed to reduce these arrears from £4,600 to less than 
£2,000.I explained that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued rules and guidance in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which said:
7.3.4, A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration. And says examples of this could be (3) accepting token payments for a 
reasonable period of time in order to allow a customer to recover from an unexpected 
income shock. 
I explained that I didnt think it was correct that MHCC ended the agreement early to prevent 
arrears building up as Mr M had already paid around £2,800 towards his arrears, maintained 
his monthly repayments for a number of months and had less than £2,000 to pay at the point 
MHCC terminated the agreement. This was despite Mr M being out of work due to the issues 
Ive already mentioned. In addition, Mr M didnt intentionally decide not to pay his advance 
rental or the three subsequent monthly payments. These remained unpaid due to the error 
made by MHCC in the way it set his repayments up. I explained that had MHCC collected 
these by Direct Debit as it was supposed to, rather than BACS, on balance, I dont think Mr 
Ms agreement would have been in arrears but even if it had, it wouldnt have been in arrears 
so early on into the agreement as Mr M was able to maintain all his payments for a 
significant amount of time after these initial few missed payments.
I noted that Mr M also made an offer to repay £100 a month towards the arrears until he was 
back at work following his second injury. He was clearly suffering from an unexpected 
income shock as he was intending to be back at work following Covid-19 and then his 
accident. This wasnt a self-inflicted injury and appears to have occurred through no fault of 
his own.
So given the principles set out in CONC 7, I said I didnt think MHCC had acted with 
forbearance and due consideration by pursuing Mr M for the termination balance. Mr M 
made a fair offer to repay the arrears before the agreement was terminated and MHCC 
didnt accept this. In addition, in terminating the agreement, Mr M has been left with around 
£7,500 more to pay rather less than £2,000 of arrears and his monthly repayments  which 
he had no difficulty in paying. And so, I didnt think MHCC had treated Mr M fairly with 
forbearance and due consideration.
In terminating the agreement, MHCC left Mr M with a termination balance of around £7,500. 
Upon review, given Mr Ms personal circumstances at the time of termination and the fact 
that its unlikely Mr M would have been in arrears for long, or at all, had MHCC collected the 
initial payments by Direct Debit, I said I thought it was unfair for MHCC to pursue Mr M for 
the whole termination balance. I said I thought MHCC should only pursue Mr M for the 
outstanding arrears which accrued before the agreement was terminated and I thought it 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file about this agreement.  
Mr M agreed. But MHCC responded and said it was unaware of Mr Ms health issues before 
he took the agreement out and was only made aware of these in June 2021. It said at the 
time it terminated the agreement, Mr M still had part of the advance rental outstanding, 
August  October 2020 rentals outstanding and the September 2021 rental outstanding. This 
amounted to around £2,500. It said it sent Mr M an invoice for the outstanding rentals and 
said this was due to be paid by BACS and sent him other letters to confirm his agreement 
was in arrears. 
It also said that it offered forbearance on numerous occasions over a prolonged period of 
time. It said it attempted to assist Mr M in clearing the arrears but his promises to pay didnt 
materialise. It said it could have terminated the agreement in January 2021 when it was 
made aware that Mr M was unemployed. It said Mr M had between June 2020 and 
September 2021 to clear the arrears. It said Mr M made offers to pay whilst the agreement 
was active but these didnt result in payment of any amount. It said it accepted all the offers 
but Mr M didnt make them. It said the final offer of payment was made after the Notice of 
Termination. It also said Mr M could have made token repayments to clear the arrears, but he didnt do this. It also apologised for the error it made at the outset of the agreement and 
accepted this was a contributing factor to the arrears accruing, but it said Mr M should have 
been aware it hadnt taken a payment.
MHCC remains in disagreement, so Ive reviewed Mr Ms complaint in light of the new 
information provided and the information provided by both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided a good deal of evidence, so Ive had to summarise things in this 
decision. The rules of our service allow me to do this, but I want to assure the parties, if I 
dont mention every single point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about 
it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. However, Im going to 
concentrate here on what I consider is key to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
overall.
Ive reviewed all the comments made in response to my provisional decision and the further 
comments received once I let both Mr M and MHCC know that I intended to depart from my 
provisional decision and why.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. This is mainly for the 
reasons set out in my further communication with MHCC. Ill explain further.
Theres no dispute that MHCC made the error with setting up the payment incorrectly. 
MHCC accepts this. This resulted in Mr M missing the advance rental and three subsequent 
payments. MHCC says it sent Mr M arrears notices and an invoice saying payment would be 
taken by BACS. Mr M says he was unaware he had missed payments as he had funds 
available at the time. When Mr M received the default notice in January 2021, he contacted 
MHCC. During this call, he set up a repayment and told MHCC he had savings to pay this, 
despite an income and expenditure showing he had a low disposable income. He also told 
MHCC he hadnt worked since March 2020. 
This suggests that Mr M had funds available at the time and before this as he told MHCC he 
had access to savings. Mr M has also told us he had funds in his account and so he didnt 
think to check whether the payments had been made. I think it would have been reasonable 
for Mr M to check, but if MHCC had taken the payments owed under the agreement correctly 
in the first place, I think its more likely than not that Mr M wouldnt have gotten into arrears 
so soon after entering into the agreement. 
In January 2021, Mr M agreed to a repayment plan with MHCC in which he would pay 
£1,000 extra for around four months to clear the arrears. Mr M only paid two £1,000 
payments however. In June 2021, MHCC was made aware that Mr M was due to go back to 
work in October 2020 following the Covid-19 pandemic. However, Mr M told MHCC that due 
to an accident, he couldnt and he was due to return to work in a few weeks. MHCC agreed 
to look at a payment plan option for Mr M to pay a lower amount for six months. 
In July 2021, Mr M told MHCC he would need a further medical procedure. He said he 
couldnt make any further payments at the time towards the arrears but he should be 
returning to work in August 2021. In September 2021, Mr M told MHCC he would need a 
further medical procedure and he couldnt pay anything until the following month. Mr M said 
he couldnt make a payment towards the arrears, but after MHCC said it would have to take 
full payment of the arrears, Mr M said he would need a few days to collect the arrears funds. 
Mr M then called a couple of days later and offered to pay £100 a month towards the arrears 
until he was back at work. He said although he was waiting for a procedure, this wouldnt 
stop him working. MHCC said it would review this and then made a decision to terminate the 
agreement.Having thought about all of this carefully, I dont think MHCC acted with forbearance and due 
consideration in line with the guidance and rules set out in CONC 7. This is because MHCC 
was aware in June 2021 that Mr M had an accident which resulted in him being unable to 
work for a period of time and contributed to him being unable to clear his arrears quickly.   
Mr M made an offer to repay £100 towards the arrears, on top of the monthly repayments of 
£510.53, before MHCC terminated the agreement. MHCCs system notes that it has 
provided to this service confirm this. 
CONC 7.3.8 states, An example of where a firm is likely to contravene Principle 6 and 
CONC 7.3.4 R is where the firm does not allow for alternative, affordable payment amounts 
to repay the debt due in full, where the customer is in default or arrears difficulties and the 
customer makes a reasonable proposal for repaying the debt or a debt counsellor or another 
person acting on the customer's behalf makes such a proposal.
CONC 7.3.9 states, A firm must not operate a policy of refusing to negotiate with a 
customer who is developing a repayment plan.
Principle 6 states, A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
I appreciate Mr Ms agreement was in arrears since June 2020, but I think MHCCs error 
contributed to his agreement being in arrears so early on. I note that MHCC didnt ask Mr M 
to pay towards the arrears in June 2020 when it found out about Mr Ms personal 
circumstances. However, it did say it would consider a six month repayment plan for the 
arrears in June 2021, but then terminated the agreement three months later in       
September 2021. MHCC was aware that Mr M was undergoing medical procedures and    
Mr M updated it about his circumstances. 
Finally, when Mr M offered MHCC a repayment of £100 a month towards the arrears until he 
returned to work, I think this was a fair and reasonable proposal and I think when MHCC 
declined to accept this, this wasnt in line with CONC 7.3.8, 7.3.9 or Principle 6. This offer 
was made before MHCC terminated the agreement. And so, I think it was unfair for MHCC to 
terminate Mr Ms agreement considering his circumstances and I dont think MHCC acted 
with forbearance and due consideration.  
Overall, I see no reason to depart from my intended findings as explained to both parties in 
my follow up correspondence following the provisional decision. This is that Mr M should 
only be expected to pay the arrears that had accrued up until the point the agreement was 
terminated. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Capital 
Vehicle Solutions to settle Mr Ms complaint as follows:
Reduce the outstanding amount owed by Mr M to only include the arrears that 
accrued up until the point the agreement was terminated; 
If the effect of reducing the outstanding amount owed means that Mr M has made an 
overpayment, any overpayments should returned to Mr M along with 8% simple 
interest on the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the 
date of settlement. 
If Mr M has made any payments over this amount, MHCC should refund any 
overpayments and pay Mr M 8% simple interest on this overpayment from the date of 
each payment until the date of settlement; 
If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made MHCC 
should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Mr M is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with MHCC to reach a suitable agreement; and
Amend any adverse information reported to the credit reference agencies about the 
termination of the agreement. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MHCC to take off tax from this interest. MHCC must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman