DRN-3984027
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about fees charged by Colbourne & Company in order to manage 
their investments.
What happened
In mid 2022 Mr and Mrs D complained to Colbourne & Company when they heard they had 
stopped providing any regulated activities.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with the service provided and asked for a refund of the fees 
they had been paying to Colbourne & Company to manage their investments.  
Colbourne & Company didnt respond to the complaint so one of our Investigators looked 
into what happened. They also didnt receive any substantive response from Colbourne & 
Company so reached out to the platform provider of Mr and Mrs Ds investments for 
information.   
Our Investigator upheld the complaint saying that Colbourne & Company should repay a 
total of £219,000 worth of fees that had been charged. They had seen no evidence of an 
ongoing advisory service for which Mr and Mrs D were being charged. They thought it was 
reasonable to conclude that the fees were charged without justification and should not have 
been taken from Mr and Mrs Ds investment.
Colbourne & Company didnt respond to our Investigator, so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.
Our rules
Colbourne & Company have not replied to requests for information on multiple occasions. 
Nor did they respond to our Investigators view of the complaint explaining how they thought 
it should be resolved. 
One of the objectives of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve complaints 
informally and at the earliest possible stage, this is reflected in the rules:
DISP 3.5.1 The Ombudsman will attempt to resolve complaints at the earliest possible stage 
and by whatever means appear to him to be most appropriate, including mediation and 
investigation. 
The rules also allow me to reach a decision on limited information: 
DISP 3.5.9 The Ombudsman may: 
(3) reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take into account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested
Im satisfied this rule applies here as Colbourne & Company have failed to provide the 
information requested. 
Alongside this the rules allow the fixing of time limits for a response:
DISP 3.5.13 The Ombudsman may fix (and extend) time limits for any aspect of the 
consideration of a complaint by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Colbourne & Company were first made aware of this complaint by email in September 2022. 
On 20 October 2022 Colbourne & Company said I will respond as soon as possible but this 
didnt happen. We also received several one-line email responses sighting family 
bereavement and health problems as reasons for the delay in response. 
Our Investigator reminded Colbourne & Company of their obligations to provide information 
and also gave warning that if there was no response an assessment would be made on the 
evidence currently held.
Im satisfied time limits for information requests were appropriately set and communicated 
with Colbourne & Company. I also dont think the reasons provided, based on the lack of 
detail, are exceptional or warrant any further extension of time. Emails have been sent to the 
address declared on the FCA register for Colbourne & Company and we have previously 
received responses using those details.
Because of the non-cooperation of Colbourne & Company Im basing my decision on the 
information I have been provided with which is allowed under the rules: 
DISP 3.5.14 If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:
(1) proceed with consideration of the complaint, and
(2)Include provision for any material distress or material inconvenience caused by that 
failure in any award which he decides to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D took advice from Colbourne & Company in 2004. 
Between 26 June 2019 and 22 August 2022 Mr and Mrs D have been charged an advisor 
specified fee of £600 on 365 occasions which ordinarily relates to advice being given by 
their adviser. Ive referred to this as an ongoing advisory fee throughout. 
Due to the non-response from Colbourne & Company I dont have a copy of the advisory 
service agreement so cant say exactly what service Mr and Mrs D were paying for. 
What I have seen is that during the period Mr and Mrs D were being charged their 
investment mix has remained the same even when dropping in value.
In isolation this doesnt necessarily mean that the investments werent being reviewed, 
however Ive not seen any evidence this was happening. Id expect Colbourne & Company 
to have contacted Mr and Mrs D sometime between 2019 and 2022 to discuss their 
investments and see if they were still meeting their needs  at a minimum, providing advice 
for which it appears they have been charged for. Mr and Mrs D say this never happened. 
The only transactions during this time were deposits made in February 2021 and again a few 
months later in June 2021. Theres no evidence about why these transactions took place and nor any proof the deposits were initiated because of advice given by Colbourne & 
Company. So Im not persuaded any advice was given.
Ive considered everything Ive been provided with and also taken into account the failure of 
Colbourne & Company to provide any information. Having done so Im satisfied, on the 
balance of probabilities, Mr and Mrs D didnt receive the advisory service they were being 
charged for. 
By charging fees and not providing a service I think Colbourne & Company have not fulfilled 
their regulatory obligations and also not acted in accordance with the principles set out by 
the FCA. Therefore the total amount of fees taken should be refunded to Mr and Mrs D.
The fees were taken from Mr and Mrs Ds investments by way of an auto-sell function where 
units were sold in order to pay the fees to Colbourne & Company. 
I think the most fair and reasonable way of putting things right is to refund the number of 
units sold to pay the fees back to Mr and Mrs Ds investments. 
Mr and Mrs D have also been put to a level of distress and inconvenience by what 
happened. Our Investigator thought Colbourne & Company should pay £150 for the trouble 
and upset caused.
Ive considered everything that happened including the worry about what happened, the time 
and effort it has taken to get a resolution, and the overall effect this has had on 
Mr and Mrs D. Having done so I think Colbourne & Company should pay Mrs and Mr D £500 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I sent Colbourne & Company two emails explaining this and setting out my thoughts with 
deadlines for a response with any comments. I also reminded Colbourne & Company about 
our powers for setting time limits and our ability to come to a decision on limited information 
as Ive explained above. I received a one line email response with reasons for personal 
delays, but nothing to suggest why Colbourne & Company couldnt respond to the complaint 
or our requests for information.
Putting things right
Colbourne & Company should contact the platform provider of Mr and Mrs Ds investments 
to confirm the number of units sold on each of the 365 occasions a fee was taken.
They should then repurchase the units for the respective investments and put Mr and Mrs D 
back in the position they would be in had the fees not been taken.
Colbourne & Company should also pay Mr and Mrs D £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Colbourne & Company should take the actions Ive outlined above in paying compensation 
to Mr and Mrs D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023. 
Warren WilsonOmbudsman