DRN-2899449
The complaint
The estate of Mr D complains that JPMorgan Funds Limited has frustrated its executors 
attempts to claim the proceeds of an investment. 
What happened
Solicitors, acting on behalf of Mr Ds estate, wrote to JP Morgan enclosing a Grant of 
Probate (GoP). The solicitors asked that JP Morgan formally recognise the executors named 
in the GoP, and arrange for Mr Ds investments to be liquidated and transferred. 
JP Morgan liquidated the investments but didnt transfer them. Instead, it wrote to the 
executors and asked for proof of their identification before it would commit to transferring any 
money.  
One of Mr Ds executors queried JP Morgans request. From his perspective he and the 
other executors had already gone through the formality of proving their identities in the 
course of obtaining the GoP.  He didnt feel that what JP Morgan was asking for was 
reasonable. 
After some correspondence back and forth, the executor instructed the estates solicitors to 
provide JP Morgan with the identification documents it held on file. On receipt of these 
documents, JP Morgan released the funds. 
The executor has complained that JP Morgan frustrated the estates efforts to disperse Mr 
Ds funds. JP Morgan disagreed with the executors complaint, and the matter was referred 
to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the estates complaint. They felt JP Morgans request was a 
fair one. As the estate did not agree, the matters been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations require JP Morgan to protect the assets of its clients. Failing to do so could 
present a considerable risk to both the business and its clients. So its something Id expect 
JP Morgan to take very seriously 
The executor bringing this complaint feels the estates solicitors presentation of the GoP 
ought to have been sufficient grounds for the business to release the funds. But I can 
understand why JP Morgan asked for more than this. 
The GoP clearly names Mr Ds executors. I would expect JP Morgan to accept the document 
as proof of who was entitled to represent the estates affairs, which Im satisfied it did do. But 
the GoP doesnt by itself prove that its those named individuals who initiated the solicitors 
instruction to liquidate and transfer the investments. 
JP Morgan could have taken the solicitors at their word. And assumed that the individuals 
named on the GoP had been suitably identified by the solicitors prior to requesting the 
transfer. But this would be a risk. And mindful of what the regulations require, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for JP Morgan to have wanted to be sure it was dealing with the correct 
individuals itself, rather than placing its trust in the actions of a third party.   
As part of this complaint, the executor has referred to industry guidance which he feels 
supports the notion that the GoP ought to have sufficed for JP Morgans purposes. I dont 
agree with his interpretation of this guidance for the same reasons our investigator has given 
previously. But even if this guidance said what the executor argues it says, I dont believe it 
would be unfair or unreasonable for JP Morgan to have still carried out these same checks. 
Had JP Morgan processed a transaction for a fraudster impersonating one or more of the 
executors, it wouldve failed in its obligation to protect its clients assets. It may also find itself 
liable for repaying that loss. By checking the identities of the individuals claiming to represent 
the estate, JP Morgan was, in my view, exercising an eminently reasonable degree of due 
diligence. 
The checks JP Morgan imposed on the executors werent onerous or unusual for the type of 
transaction thatd been requested. And Im conscious that the business only reached out for 
documentation after itd been unable to verify the executors electronically. So Im satisfied 
its tried to minimise any perceived inconvenience the estate may have experienced. 
In coming to my decision, I acknowledge that Mr Ds executors have identified themselves 
as involuntary clients. But that doesnt make a difference here. Whatever the executors 
individual relationships with the business might be, it doesnt in any way lessen JP Morgans 
obligation to protect the assets of Mr Ds estate. So I wouldnt reasonably expect JP Morgan 
to carry out any less due diligence, just because the executors hadnt chosen to become 
clients themselves. 
The executor has said that when he initially phoned in to discuss JP Morgans request, there 
was some confusion about what information was required.  But as regrettable as this may 
have been, it seems to have only been a very minor inconvenience and its caused no 
significant delays. Overall, Im satisfied that JP Morgan has treated Mr Ds estate fairly in this 
matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2021. 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman