The complaint
Mr F complains that he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by HSBC UK Bank 
Plc, trading then as Midland Bank.
What happened
Mr F took out a mortgage with HSBC in 1996. At the same time, he was sold a PPI policy to 
help cover his mortgage repayments if he was unable to work due to an accident, sickness 
or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr F disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
HSBC had to make it clear to Mr F that he had a choice about taking the PPI policy and 
obtain his consent. 
There isnt much information now available from the time of the sale. For example, we dont 
have a copy of any mortgage or PPI application forms Mr F may have signed then. And 
Mr Fs memory of the meeting where he thinks the sale took place doesnt appear to be that 
vivid or detailed either. But this isnt that surprising given the sale took place so long ago. So, 
in these circumstances, I ve needed to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, 
based on all the limited information I do have. This includes what I know about how HSBC 
normally sold PPI on mortgages at around that time.
As theres little paperwork from the time of the sale, I cant say for sure what Mr F was told or 
that it was made clear the PPI was optional. Equally, Ive seen no other evidence to support 
what Mr Fs said about HSBC not making him aware it had added PPI or making it clear the 
PPI was optional. But I think its likely that Mr F would have needed to complete a PPI 
application form and direct debit mandate for the policy to have been set up by the insurer. 
And if Mr F wasnt aware hed been sold PPI, I think its more likely than not hed have 
queried why he was being charged monthly premiums for this policy on his bank statements. 
 HSBC says the policy was cancelled later in 1996, which might also suggest Mr F was 
aware hed taken out the cover at the time and could choose to cancel it if he wanted to. 
DRN-1414053So, taking everything into account, I think its likely that Mr F was aware that the PPI policy 
was optional and actively decided to take it out. But I can understand why he might not recall 
this now.
HSBC says it cant be sure whether it recommended the PPI policy to Mr F. But Ive 
assumed that this was an advised sale, because this means HSBC needed to ensure that it 
was suitable for him. I cant now be sure how it did this. But from what I know about Mr Fs 
circumstances at the time, I dont see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say 
this because:
Mr F seems to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main
exclusions or limitations
Mr F says he would have been paid generous sick pay and redundancy by his
employer. And he says he also had some savings he could have used to make his
mortgage repayments if he wasnt able to work. So he says he didnt need the PPI.
But this policy would have paid out for up to twelve months in the event of an
accident, sickness or unemployment, and in addition to any other means he might
have had at the time. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  one where
ones home is potentially at risk if the monthly repayments cant be made. So I still
think that Mr F would have been prepared to pay for the extra security the policy
gave him if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr F. And as the premiums
were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled if it no longer met his needs.
HSBC also needed to give Mr F enough information about the PPI policy for him to decide if 
he wanted it. I think its possible that the information HSBC gave him could have been better 
than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable for 
him, I dont think that better information would have changed his mind about taking it. I think 
hed still have thought the policy gave him useful benefits at an affordable price.
So I dont think Mr F has lost out by anything that HSBC may have done wrong when it sold 
him this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about the reasons Mr F has given for still thinking he was mis-sold the 
policy. But this hasnt changed my mind about not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22July2020.
Simon FurseOmbudsman