DRN-3363165
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc changed the terms of his graduate account without 
notifying him. 
What happened
Mr L had a student account with Santander which changed to a graduate account in 2019. 
The graduate account gave him an interest free overdraft. 
Mr L had understood that the graduate account would last for three years. But in May 2021 
Santander told him that his account would be changing to an everyday current account by 15 
July 2021  only two years after it became a graduate account   and that the overdraft 
would therefore now incur interest charges. 
Mr L complained to Santander about the expiry of his graduate account. Santander initially 
said that the terms and conditions stated the graduate account would last for 2 years and 
that it was not willing to look into things further unless Mr L provided proof that he had been 
told he was entitled to have the account for 3 years. But following further discussions 
Santander issued a final response letter in July 2021 explaining that it was entitled to change 
the terms of Mr Ls account and had sent a letter notifying customers of the change to 
graduate accounts in 2017, and that as a result Mr L was only entitled to the graduate 
account for 2 years. 
Santander did though agree that its communication could have been clearer, and so offered 
to pay Mr L £120 to recognise any distress caused to him and confirmed Mr L could speak to 
the financial assist team if he needed help with repaying his overdraft before the account 
changed and interest began to be charged. Subsequently, Santander also refunded an 
interest charge of around £10 that was applied to Mr Ls account, and Mr L repaid the 
overdrawn balance of his account in full.
 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint. She thought that Santander had acted in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account and that the offer made to Mr L was 
fair. Mr L has asked for an ombudsmans decision and so it has come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding this complaint and I will explain why. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the graduate account that were in place when 
Mr Ls student account was converted to a graduate account in 2019. In 2017 Santander had 
changed the terms and conditions of the graduate account and reduced the period an 
accountholder was entitled to graduate terms for to two years following graduation. The 
relevant key facts document for the graduate account states: For any 1/2/3 Graduate 
Current Account opened on or after 26 June 2017, the account will last up to 2 years before 
it automatically transfers to an appropriate current account. If your 1/2/3 Graduate Current 
Account was opened prior to this date, it will last up to 3 years. 
Mr Ls graduate account was opened in 2019 when it was converted from a student account. 
So I think this information is clear that the graduate account would only available to him for 
two years. And I think its more likely than not that this key facts document would have been 
sent to Mr L when his account converted to a graduate account in 2019. I appreciate that 
Mr L says he didnt receive any notification of this change, and also that at the time he 
opened his student account the terms and conditions were different, but Santander is 
entitled to change the terms and conditions of an account provided that it gives sufficient 
notice to the customer. It would be Santanders usual process to send the new terms and 
conditions when a student account converted to a graduate account, and they were also 
available online. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that Santander wouldnt have followed its 
usual process here. 
Santander has though acknowledged that its communication around this issue could have 
been better, but I think that the £120 Santander has already paid to Mr L to recognise this is 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
I therefore cant fairly say that Santander have done anything wrong in changing Mr Ls 
graduate account to an everyday account after two years. And I am also satisfied that 
Santander acted appropriately in directing Mr L to sources of assistance with repaying his 
overdraft and refunding the interest charges that were applied to help Mr L.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about 
Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman