DRN-1315727
 
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that he was unable to open a regular saver account with Virgin Money plc 
(Virgin) when he visited his local branch on 4 May 2019. Hes also unhappy with the overall 
service he received  including how his complaint was handled.
 
What happened
Mr D told us that he decided to open a regular saver account with Virgin on 4 May 2019. He 
rang twice on the day to see if he could make any appointment to avoid having to queue  
and left a message both times. 
But Mr D had arrived at his local branch, at around 11am, just as Virgin returned his call to 
explain that there werent any appointments available until 13 June 2019. Mr D said this 
wasnt convenient or acceptable. He thinks, given that the account was only for a fixed 
period to 1 May 2020 and limited to a monthly savings cap of 250, he was being penalized 
by the wait and the delay would have meant hed lose out on earning interest.
Mr D says branch staff told him financial regulations meant he could only open this account 
through an appointment with a trained member of staff  and that he could try another 
branch. Hes also unhappy that the manager he spoke to at the branch wasnt qualified to 
set up this account type with him  and that there was no one at Virgins head office that 
could help him that day either.
When Mr D raised a complaint during the same branch visit, he says the manager wrote 
down his complaint on a compliment slip  when hed expected to be given a specific form 
for complaints to complete. And when he was called by a member of staff on 9 May 2019, he 
didnt think his complaint was handled well  and says the person misled him by estimating 
hed have only lost around £2 interest if hed gone ahead and opened the account later in 
June, instead of when hed intended.
Mr D acknowledges he was offered an earlier appointment during this call  on 12 May 2019 
 but that wasnt convenient for him. And when he asked for his complaint to be escalated to 
someone senior, this resulted in him receiving a letter that was written on the same day as 
the call. And hes unhappy that he didnt get the chance to discuss his complaint further. And 
while Virgin offered Mr D £25 as a goodwill gesture for the loss of interest and any travel 
costs, Mr D has said he thinks this is insulting.
So, Mr D brought his complaint to us. Our investigator considered all the points Mr D raised 
 including his comments about their procedures, staff levels and complaint handling. But he 
didnt think Virgin had done anything wrong. So he didnt uphold the complaint. In summary 
he said he thought Virgins website was clear that an appointment was needed.  And while 
they didnt have an available appointment on the day Mr D wanted, they offered the earliest 
available appointment and tried to find him an alternative option. He also said as complaint handling wasnt a regulated activity, we couldnt investigate this by itself. Overall, he thought 
Virgins goodwill gesture was fair  and didnt think they needed to do anything else.
Mr D didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments made, I would like to reassure both Mr D and Virgin that I have 
considered all the evidence provided when reaching my decision.  
It's not our role at the ombudsman service to tell financial businesses what their processes 
should be, as were not the regulator  but we can look at if theyve followed their own 
processes and whether theyd acted fairly in doing so. 
In Mr Ds case, Virgin have told him they currently only sell the account he wanted through 
an appointment  and thats a commercial decision that Virgin have made. Its also not 
unusual for some products to only be offered on one type of platform  rather than across all 
available mediums. And I havent seen anything in Mr Ds circumstances that makes me 
think Virgin have treated him unfairly by only offering this account through an appointment.
I know Mr D thinks Virgin acted in bad faith by saying he had to have an appointment to take 
out this type of account due to financial regulations. Virgin havent responded to this point 
specifically in their final response  and from the information provided, its not clear what 
specific financial regulation is being referred to here. And I have no reason to doubt what Mr 
D has told us what was said. But I dont think it makes a difference whether this explanation 
was correct or not. I say this because Virgin had chosen to only sell this product by branch 
appointment  and they were entitled to decide that. And I think the heart of      Mr Ds 
complaint is that he couldnt get an appointment to open the account after hed specifically 
travelled to the branch for that purpose. So, I think Mr D wouldve been unhappy even if hed 
been given a different reason.
Mr D says the information about opening regular saver accounts doesnt say that an 
appointment is mandatory. But I can see that the account was described on Virgins website 
as a store account and directs customers to request an appointment and chat with us face 
to face. Also, the website didnt point to any alternative means of opening one. So, I think 
Virgin made it clear enough that an appointment was necessary to open this type of account. 
Mr D has also told us he rang the branch twice in advance of visiting it to see if he could 
make an appointment and left messages with the branch when he couldnt get through. And 
this suggests to me that Mr D probably thought he would need an appointment too.
I can understand that these events would have been frustrating for Mr D, especially as he 
had made the effort to get into his local branch. But I do think it was Mr Ds choice to visit the 
branch before he had heard back from Virgin  so I dont think it would be fair to blame them 
for any inconvenience or distress this caused him. Further, Mr D has said that Virgin called 
him back around 11am the same day he called them. I think thats a reasonable timeframe 
for a call to be returned given Mr D says he first called them soon after 9am.
I appreciate Mr D isnt happy that the branch manager wasnt qualified to open this account 
for him  and hes frustrated at the staffing levels in the branch and having to wait until      13 
June 2019 for an appointment. But its not the role of this service to look into how a business organises its staffing arrangements. Virgin did call him back  albeit he had already travelled 
to his local branch at that point. And although they said they didnt have any appointments 
until the next month, they did suggest alternatives. He was also eventually offered an 
appointment in May when Virgin called him a few days later. So, in the round, I think Virgin 
have tried to be as helpful as they could. And Ive no doubt that if an appropriately trained 
member of staff had been available to help Mr D when he went into the branch, then they 
would have done so then and there.
Mr D also points out that if he had gone ahead with an appointment later in June, hed have 
lost out on investing around £500 into the account (as he couldve invested up to £250 per 
month) and any potential interest gained. So, while I dont think Virgin did anything wrong, 
Ive estimated what Mr Ds potential loss in interest mightve been had he been able to open 
the account sooner, to answer this point. The annual percentage rate offered on the account 
was around 3%. Based on the £500 figure Mr D has given us, 3% over the entire year would 
be around £15  about £1.25 per month. So Mr D mightve lost out around £2.50 across two 
months.
But hes also told us he opened a similar savings account elsewhere the same day, which he 
says had only a slightly different interest rate. So, it sounds like Mr D largely mitigated any 
potential loss he mightve had. Plus, Virgin offered him £25 to cover any interest lost as well 
as some of his travel costs. Overall, I think any loss Mr D mightve experienced would have 
been small  and I think Virgin have covered this in the offer theyve made.
Mr D says hes unhappy overall with how Virgin have handled things  and asks that we 
consider Virgins complaint procedures. As Ive said already, our role isnt to tell businesses 
what their processes should be. Additionally, complaint handling in itself isnt a regulated 
activity  so thats not something this service can investigate and decide on separately. But I 
can consider whats happened as part of a consumers overall customer experience.
Mr D is unhappy with how his complaint was dealt with in the branch  including that his 
complaint points were written down on a compliment slip. Ive not seen a copy of what was 
written  but Im aware he did receive a call about his complaint a few days later and a final 
response was issued. So, Im satisfied the branch took sufficient information from Mr D and 
escalated the complaint to the right area.
Mr D says Virgin told him, during the phone call, that his potential loss of interest was less 
than £2. And he says he was either being misled  or the member of staff didnt understand 
how interest rates work. I dont have a recording of the call, but Virgin have sent us their 
detailed notes  and Mr D has also given his detailed testimony. So Im satisfied this is 
enough information for me to decide on the points Mr D has made about the call. And from 
the information Ive seen, I dont think Virgin were trying to mislead Mr D  their call notes 
say they thought the interest would have been about £2.50, which was my own estimate too. 
I appreciate Mr D recalls this estimate being described as £2 but it was intended to be an 
estimate not an exact figure. And overall, I think the complaint handler was trying to help him 
 and offered Mr D an alternative appointment in May 2019.
While Mr D didnt get an opportunity to discuss his complaint with a more senior member of 
staff, I can see he was sent a final response letter and given referral rights to this service. I 
can see Virgin sent this final response on the same day they rang Mr D. But I dont think this 
means they didnt consider his complaint properly, as their letter does broadly cover Mr Ds 
complaint. 
Overall, I think Virgins offer to pay Mr D £25 to cover his travel and any potential loss of 
interest is fair in the circumstances. I appreciate Mr D isnt satisfied with their answer or the 
detail given in Virgins letter  but overall, I think they acted reasonably.Ive noted Mr Ds comments about his health  and how these events exacerbated it. And 
Im sorry to hear that hes been unwell. But as I think Virgin have acted reasonably overall, I 
dont think it would be fair to hold them accountable for this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that the offer          
Virgin Money plc have made to pay Mr D £25 is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Virgin Money plc should pay Mr D £25.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Guy Johnson
Ombudsman