DRN-3277958
The complaint
The executors of the estate of Mrs R complain that Graham Carter Financial Services 
Limited trading as Graham Carter & Co gave unsuitable investment advice. They also 
complain that Graham Carter & Co failed to review Mrs Rs investment portfolio which has 
resulted in a loss.
What happened
Mrs R had an ongoing relationship with Graham Carter & Co. It appears it advised her for 
many years. In 2015, it advised Mrs R to sell her investment within one particular fund and 
use the proceeds to invest into the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF). In 2018 Mrs Rs 
children registered an Enduring Power of Attorney and in January 2019 Mrs R sadly passed 
away.
The executors complain that Graham Carter & Cos advice in 2015 was unsuitable for Mrs R. 
They say it presented too high a risk for her age and circumstances. They also complain that 
Graham Carter & Co failed to carry out contractual annual reviews, and had it done so, it 
wouldve switched Mrs Rs investment out of the WEIF when it started to decline. As it didnt, 
the estate has lost out.
Our Investigator partially upheld this complaint. She said the following:
- Whilst there was a lack of a recent fact find, Mrs Rs investment experience and 
circumstances suggests she remained a balanced investor.
- The advice in 2015 switched from a fund with a similar risk profile to the WEIF and 
this wasnt unsuitable.
- Graham Carter & Co failed to send Mrs R review invitations from 2017 onwards and 
should refund the fees taken for those years plus interest as it didnt provide the 
service Mrs R was paying for.
- Had the reviews taken place any movement out of the WEIF wouldve required Mrs 
Rs attorneys authorisation and theres no evidence they were looking to change her 
investments so Mrs R wouldnt be in any different position.
Graham Carter & Co agreed with our Investigators view. The executors of Mrs Rs estate 
disagreed. They felt that had Graham Carter & Co carried out its reviews each year then it 
wouldve switched Mrs Rs investments out of the WEIF. They also maintain that it wasnt 
suitable at the outset. They asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our Investigator for similar reasons. Im partially upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Suitability of the 2015 advice
Mrs Rs executors complain that the advice in 2015 to switch into the WEIF was unsuitable. 
Unfortunately, I cant see Graham Carter & Co carried out a fact find after 2005, but Ive 
considered the large volume of correspondence between Mrs R and her adviser over the 
years to conclude whether the advice was suitable.
From the information we have on file I can see Mrs R was retired, in her 80s and had 
sufficient income to cover her outgoings. Mrs R had an investment portfolio in 2015 which 
had a balanced risk profile. Previous correspondence shows she was keen to address her 
potential inheritance tax liability and there wasnt any suggestion that Mrs R needed to take 
a cautious approach to investments or needed to ensure her capital was preserved.
I do appreciate that Mrs R was retired, which would mean shed find it hard to replace any 
lost capital. But her circumstances, and regular correspondence with Graham Carter & Co 
dont suggest that she couldnt take some risk with her investments. In 2015, the advice was 
to sell Mrs Rs holding in a different fund that hadnt been performing well, and reinvest the 
proceeds into the WEIF. There wasnt any new monies invested, and the risk profile of the 
WEIF largely matched that of the previous fund. Essentially the advice didnt make her 
existing portfolio more risky to the extent that it was unsuitable for her based on what Ive 
seen. It appears her portfolio remained balanced after this advice.
Its worth noting that correspondence shows Mrs R took a keen interest in her investments, 
and was actively involved in selecting types of investments within her portfolio. So, I do think 
its likely that she remained a balanced risk investor with some capacity for loss and so the 
advice she received in 2015 wasnt unsuitable for her.
Ongoing reviews
Mrs R signed up to a specific service level in 2013 with Graham Carter & Co which meant 
she could expect annual reviews of her portfolio. Graham Carter & Co said it invited Mrs R to 
a review in 2016 but she didnt respond. However, I can see on the file it submitted that a 
review did take place in September 2016. I cant understand why no further review invites 
were sent and I agree that this meant Graham Carter & Co fell short of its obligations  
particularly as Mrs R was paying a fee for this service. It follows that I think Graham Carter & 
Co should pay the executors any fees it took from 2017 onwards together with interest.
I note that the fees were taken from the investment, and so potential returns on this amount 
had it remained invested may be different to the 8% simple rate our Investigator suggested. 
But, as Graham Carter & Co agreed to this redress, I think its fair and reasonable, as well as 
pragmatic, to award 8% simple interest on to the fee refund.
Effect of missed annual reviews
The crux of this complaint is around the effect of the missed annual reviews. The executors 
say that had the reviews taken place, Graham Carter & Co wouldve moved Mrs Rs 
investment out of the WEIF prior to it being suspended in 2019. I think its too speculative to 
have reached this conclusion, Ill explain why.
Graham Carter & Co sent Mrs R annual portfolio updates. In these updates  which were 
sent each year until she passed away  it said to contact it if she wanted to discuss her 
investments. The portfolio updates contained the valuations of the funds. I cant see that Mrs 
R, or her attorneys contacted Graham Carter & Co to discuss the portfolio. In 2017 and 2018 
the investment in the WEIF hadnt declined to the extent that it later did. By the time Mrs R 
passed away, her investment into the WEIF had lost some value but not a significant amount. I cant see any indication that had Graham Carter & Co invited her for a review in 
2017 and 2018 that any changes wouldve been made to her portfolio.
Its also important to note that any changes to the portfolio wouldve had to be authorised by 
Mrs Rs attorneys, who have said they didnt feel it right to delve into her investments at that 
time. So I think its likely that any invitation to an annual review may have gone unanswered. 
So, I dont think that Mrs Rs portfolio wouldve been in any different position had Graham 
Carter & Co sent out annual review invitations.
I understand the executors disappointment that the WEIF was suspended whilst they were 
waiting for probate to be granted. But I hope Ive explained why I dont think the advice to 
invest was unsuitable at the time. From the information I have, I dont think Graham Carter & 
Cos errors in not inviting Mrs R to annual reviews has caused the losses. I dont think its 
likely the portfolio wouldve been in any different position had it done so. So whilst Im not 
upholding the substantive part of this complaint, I do think Graham Carter & Co should 
refund the fees it took from 2017 onwards as it didnt provide the service it was charging for.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I partially uphold this complaint. Graham Carter Financial 
Services Limited trading as Graham Carter & Co must refund the fees it took from the late 
Mrs Rs portfolio from 2017 onwards. To this amount it should add interest* at 8% simple per 
year from when the fee was taken to the date of settlement.
*If Graham Carter Financial Services Limited considers that its required by HMRC to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell the executors of Mrs R how much its taken off. It 
should also give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one so they can reclaim the 
tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman