DRN-3980093
The complaint
Mr A is complaining on behalf of M, a limited company hes the director of. The complaint is 
that M hasnt been refunded by Revolut Ltd after money was lost to a scam.
Although M is the complainant, it is Mr A that had all the dealings with the scammer and 
Revolut, so Ill mostly refer to him throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr A was contacted by someone claiming to be working on behalf of HMRC on 
28 March 2022. The caller said Mr A had taxes unpaid and as a result hed been fined. He 
was told that he could be arrested and have his visa revoked if he didnt immediately pay 
what was owed.
Mr A didnt realise at the time, but he was speaking with a scammer.
Mr A checked the number he was being called from and found it was the number for the 
Ministry of Justice. Mr A has explained how this made the call seem very convincing and 
genuine. Hes also explained how the scammer knew some personal information about him 
and about M. 
Mr A did owe HMRC money at the time and hed been putting off making the payment. Mr A 
wasnt then completely surprised at being contacted about unpaid taxes. Mr A says the 
scammer knew the amount of tax outstanding.
The scammer talked Mr A through what was owed. This started with the unpaid tax and then 
went on to include other payments for fines, court fees, and solicitors costs. Mr A went on to 
make six payments to a new payee, as instructed by the scammer. The first was made at 
15:19 and the last at 16:07. When asked to send a seventh payment, Mr A realised 
something was wrong and that hed been scammed, so he contacted Revolut immediately. 
The times of the scam payments are given in the table below:
Time Amount
15:19 £967.44
15:41 £1,251
15:46 £998
15:50 £1,521
15:52 £1,498
16:07 £350
Revolut attempted to recover the money from the receiving account. But it had all been 
removed and so nothing could be returned to Ms account. Revolut went on to consider 
whether it would refund M. But as the payments were all auhtorised Revolut said it wouldnt 
do so. 
Revolut also said that it had presented scam warnings to Mr A as he was making the 
payments. 
Mr A brought Ms complaint to this service as he disagreed with Revoluts answer. One of 
our investigators upheld the complaint and recommended a partial refund. He said that by 
the time of the fourth payment the activity on Ms account demonstrated enough risk factors 
to suggest that M might be at risk of financial harm through fraud. That meant Revolut ought 
to have acted by stopping payments and speaking with someone at M. He said the warnings 
provided by Revolut werent enough to discharge its fraud prevention obligations.
Our investigator was satisfied that intervention by Revolut would have revealed the scam 
and prevented any further loss to M. He recommended Revolut refund M from the fourth 
payment on, adding interest at 8% simple per year.
Our investigator considered Mr As actions in authorising the payments on Ms behalf, 
thinking about whether M ought to bear some responsibility for the loss from payment four 
onwards. He felt that the scam had been sophisticated, particularly the number spoofing 
element, and had clearly caught Mr A off-guard. He said Mr A had  on Ms behalf  acted 
reasonably and so made no deduction to the refund.
Revolut didnt agree and so the case has come to me for final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, a company like M will bear responsibility for any payments out of its 
account that are properly authorised. That responsibility is set out in the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017. Theres no argument here as to whether the transactions were 
auhtorised; all parties agree Mr A made them on Ms behalf. 
Revolut has an obligation to follow the instructions it receives from its customers. And it 
should do so with minimal friction and delay. But there are times when Revolut  or any 
other account provider  ought to stop payments and ask questions of its customer to 
establish the legitimacy of the instruction. The establishment of legitimacy not only means 
making sure they payment is properly authorised, it also means making sure the customer 
isnt at risk of financial harm through fraud. That is to say, Revolut must have systems and 
precautions in place to help stop its customers falling victim to scams. 
Part of those systems and precautions means monitoring accounts for unusual and out of 
character activity and being on the lookout for known scam indicators.
Should Revolut have stepped in to question the payments being sent from Ms account?
Im satisfied Revolut ought to have recognised M was at risk of financial harm through fraud 
at payment four. Its at this point where several different risk factors have converged, 
marking the account activity out as unusual.
All payments were being made to a new payee. The use of a new payee is not a clear risk 
indicator on its own. Account must be taken of what else is happening. For instance, the first 
payment value is relatively low. And so, the transaction doesnt look unusual in isolation. 
Making a one-off, low-value payment to a new payee is very commonplace and so its 
understandable Revolut felt no need to act here. That remains true for payments two and 
three as well.  
What is worth noting though, is that theres very little evidence of new payees being set up 
on Ms account. The faster payments that are made from the account over the preceding 
months tend to be to the same, long-established payees. Established payees carry a lower 
fraud risk given they have been tried and tested over time. Its fair to say the establishing of 
new payees of Ms account was not a regular activity.
Following the first payment at 15:19, we then see three more payments quickly made to the 
same payee  meaning four are made within thirty minutes. Its fair and reasonable to say that the activity becomes more unusual  both generally and for this account specifically  
with each additional payment, in quick succession, to the same payee. 
This pattern of repeated payments to a new payee is very common for this type of scam and 
so is an indicator that a customer might eb at risk. Revolut ought to have been aware of  
and on the lookout for  this at the time. 
Revolut has argued that business customers will often make repeated payments in quick 
succession to the same payee. Its suggested this might be to cover various invoices, with 
money owed to the same payee for different reasons. Its provided no supporting evidence of 
this, though I can accept it might happen as a general point. What the evidence for this 
complaint does show, is that such activity was not being conducted on Ms account. I cant 
see any examples of a new payee (or an existing one) being paid repeatedly within an hour, 
or even a day or week. And so, it was uncommon for Ms account to be used in this way.
Ive considered the impact these unusual transactions have on the balance of the account 
too. What can be observed is the balance dropping drop over £6,000 down to little more than 
£600. Much of that reduction  85% of the account balance  has occurred with the setting 
up of the fourth payment. Im satisfied this presents another concerning factor Revolut ought 
to have taken into account.
I have thought about the arguments Revolut has put forward. Some of what Ive said already 
directly addresses those arguments. But its also said that when the account was set up for 
M it was told:
M would conduct 10-100 transactions per month;
M might carry out volumes of transfers from between €10,000 and €100,000;
M might carry out a single transaction to the value of €20,000. 
Revolut says that, because of these indications given by M when the account was opened, 
all the fraudulent activity was within expected limits. I dont find this to be a persuasive 
argument for not stepping into to prevent fraud. If Revolut were to only to consider 
intervening when these parameters had been breached, it seems fair to say it would rarely 
ever prevent a scam. 
Its also unclear how these parameters are actually established, and what alternative options 
might have been indicated at the point the account was applied for. 
Overall, Im satisfied Revolut ought to have intervened at payment four, and so it ought to 
refund M from that point on. 
Im also satisfied that intervention would have made a difference. It doesnt appear as 
though Mr A was given a cover story to present to Revolut, had it started asking questions. 
And, as the expert in the relationship, Revolut ought to have been able to ask suitable 
probing questions to establish what was happening and why Mr A was moving Ms money. 
There were enough known features of an impersonation scam for Revolut to have broken 
the scammers spell and prevented further loss to M.
I acknowledge Revolut did present some warnings to Mr A when he was making the 
payments. But my findings are that it ought to have intervened directly. 
Should M bear some responsibility for the loss?
I need to consider Mr As actions here. He was the authorised party acting on Ms behalf. 
And so, its whether he acted reasonably in the circumstances that needs to be assessed. 
Having considered the circumstances of the case I find Mr A did act reasonably, and so 
theres no deduction to what Revolut should now refund.
Revolut has suggested that Mr A, as a director, ought to be particularly aware of 
safeguarding company funds and that he also ought to be aware of HMRC processes and procedures. I can agree with what its said here, to a degree. But its important to consider 
the circumstances of the scam and the factors that led to Mr A falling into the scammers 
trap.
Mr A was called on a spoofed number. Mr A had every reason to believe it was someone 
from the Ministry of Justice calling him, given thats the number that showed up on his 
phone. Many people, including those that are directors of companies, will not be aware of a 
fraudsters ability to spoof a phone number. So when a call comes through a great deal of 
faith is put in the phone number that is displayed. This fact alone meant Mr A was deeply 
hooked into the scam from the outset.
I note that the warnings provided by Revolut didnt refer to impersonation scams or a 
fraudsters ability to spoof phone numbers. And so Mr A received no live education, in the 
moment, about what to be on the lookout for or what to be wary of.
Mr A has provided evidence to show that he did have an outstanding HMRC bill. That may 
have been a complete coincidence or a lucky guess on the scammers part. Or it might be 
that genuine correspondence had been intercepted at some point. But the effect of this was 
to make the call seem legitimate. 
Mr A knew he had an unpaid tax bill. And the genuine HMRC correspondence he had 
received had told him hed be pursued for that unpaid bill. The call from the scammer was 
then not entirely surprising or completely unanticipated.
The scammer also used emotional manipulation to confuse Mr A and prevent him from 
thinking things through as clearly as he otherwise might have done. The scammer incited 
fear and panic by not only going through the financial implications of not complying, but also 
talking about Mr A being arrested and having his visa revoked. Those appeared to be very 
real risks to Mr A, especially considering the convincing aspects of the scam Ive already 
discussed. 
Its true that Mr A made payments to an account in the name of an individual, rather than a 
business or institution. And that might fairly be said to cast some doubt on what Mr A was 
being told to do. Mr A has explained that he was told he was paying the attorney who was 
handling his case on behalf of the Ministry of Justine and HMRC, and that they would 
arrange payments of the charges and fees. 
I dont consider that to be a particularly persuasive explanation by the scammer. But I dont 
find its such a questionable feature that it means it ought to have overcome the very 
persuasive elements Ive discussed already. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and I dont believe Mr A  acting on behalf of M  
behaved unreasonably in the circumstances. I dont make any deduction to the refund due 
from Revolut as a result. 
Recovery of funds
Mr A let Revolut know about the scam quickly and asked that it stop or reverse the payments 
hed made. Revolut rightly said that wasnt possible. Instead, Revolut had to try to pursue the 
funds through the receiving accounts in an attempt to recover anything that might have 
remained.  
My understanding is that the money went to accounts held within a territorial jurisdiction 
outside of the UK. Revolut was then more limited in what it might have done than had the 
accounts been held domestically. Nonetheless it appears the scammers moved the funds on 
within moments of them crediting the receiving accounts. And so it seems the prospect of 
recovering anything at the time was always remote at best.
Putting things right
If Mr A accepts these findings on behalf of M Revolut should:Refund Ms loss from payment four onwards (£3,369)
Pay interest on that amount at 8% simple per year, calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman