DRN-2083219
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a hire purchase agreement. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell 
the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to 
keep things simple.
What happened
Mrs T took out a hire purchase agreement in a shop in 1997. At the same time, she took out 
a PPI policy to protect her monthly repayments against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. Mrs T paid a monthly premium for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the application form for the loan. It includes a section on PPI, with a 
box to mark if the applicant wished to take PPI. And theres a cross in the box, 
indicating that Mrs T wished to take the cover. I acknowledge that it looks as if the cross 
was printed. But so were other details on the form, such as Mrs Ts name and address. 
And I think its likely, on balance, that the box to take PPI was marked because Mrs T 
told the assistant that she wished to take the cover. 
Im satisfied that the way PPI was referred to on the form made it clear that it was 
optional. And Id have expected Mrs T to query the fact that the option had been 
selected if she didnt want PPI. Taking everything into account, I think Mrs T decided to 
take the PPI, knowing that she had a choice. But I can understand how she may no 
longer remember this, so many years later.
Based on what we know of the way these policies were sold at the time, I think its 
unlikely that AXA recommended the PPI to Mrs T. This means it didnt have to check 
that it was right for her. It was for Mrs T to decide whether to take the cover, knowing 
what other means shed have had of making her repayments if she was unable to work. 
But AXA did have a responsibility to give Mrs T clear enough information to enable her 
to decide whether she wanted to take the PPI.
Its true that Mrs Ts told us shed have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by 
six months half pay from her employer if shed been off sick. But if Mrs T had made a 
successful claim on the policy for accident or sickness, it would have covered her 
monthly loan payments for up to 12 months. Thats longer than Mrs Ts told us shed 
have been entitled to full sick pay for. The policy would also have paid out for up to 
12 months if Mrs T had made a successful claim for unemployment. Whats more, the 
policy would have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs T received from her 
employer. So she could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses. 
I acknowledge that Mrs Ts told us that she could have relied on her partner and her 
family to help her financially if need be. But circumstances can change, and I cant be 
sure Mrs Ts partner and family would have been in a position to help if the need had 
arisen. So overall, I think the policy could have been useful for Mrs T.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mrs T chose to take out the 
PPI. So it looks as if she wanted the cover, even if shes understandably forgotten this 
now, so long after the event. Based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the 
time, she was eligible for the policy. And she doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the main things it didnt cover (for example, unusual working arrangements, or 
existing medical conditions). Im satisfied that the policy would have cost less than £5 
per month. And since Mrs T was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled the 
cover at any time with no cost if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no 
longer wanted the cover.
So taking everything into account, I dont think its likely that better information about the 
PPI would have put Mrs T off taking it out.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman