DRN-3733725
The complaint
Miss W complains that Brazier Consulting Services Ltd failed to pursue a mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
Miss W said that in November 2018 she asked Brazier to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim with 
her mortgage lender, Ill call H. Miss W said she asked several times for an update, but 
said she was only told there was a backlog. Miss W said that in February 2020 shed signed 
another letter of authority (LoA) as Brazier told her shed have to pay a fee if she cancelled 
the agreement. Despite further calls asking Brazier for an update Miss W said she still hasnt 
had an answer about whether PPI had been mis-sold to her. She complained to Brazier. 
Brazier didnt respond so Miss W referred her complaint to us.
Brazier said Miss W had signed a LoA in January 2019 and theyd sent this to H. But H 
hadnt been able to locate Miss Ws account, so theyd resent the LoA several times and 
also asked  Miss W to sign another LoA which again theyd sent to H. Brazier suggested 
Miss W contact H herself and theyd cancel her agreement with them without charging their 
cancellation fee. 
Our investigator asked Brazier to provide their business file, including copies of the LoAs, 
any claim notes and call recordings. And for confirmation that a mis-sold PPI claim had been 
made by them for Miss W before the August 2019 deadline for making such claims. But 
Brazier hasnt provided this.
Our investigator said Brazier hadnt shown theyd done enough which meant Miss W had 
lost the opportunity to have a mis-sold PPI claim investigated. He said Brazier should 
compensate Miss W, £250 for this.
Brazier again didnt respond so Miss Ws complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. Miss Ws dispute centres 
around the potential for a mis-sold PPI claim with H to have been successful. Where the 
available evidence for a complaint is limited, such as the case here, I base my decision on 
what I think most likely happened.
  
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for mis-sold 
PPI claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management
companies, such as Brazier amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected 
high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data 
subject request, such as an LoA. So, for some lenders the submission of a LoA was accepted as 
a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to investigate the mis-
sold PPI claim.  Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt be accepted by 
the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
Brazier said they sent Miss Ws LoA to H in January 2019, but  H hadnt been able to locate 
an account for Miss W, so theyd resent the LoA several times, and asked Miss W to sign 
another LoA which theyd also sent. But where a lender is having difficulty in finding an 
account, I would have expected to see Brazier seeking further details from Miss W to help 
the lender to find any accounts she may have with them. As without an account there cant 
be a PPI claim made. But I cant see Brazier asked Miss W to provide any supporting 
information about her endowment mortgage to assist H in locating the account for them to 
determine whether Miss W had been mis-sold PPI or not. From what I can see Brazier just 
resent the LoAs. As they havent shown me the LoAs they sent I cant see what information 
they contained. 
Miss W said her endowment mortgage ended in the 1990s. And while Miss W hasnt provided 
any evidence of PPI premiums having been paid on the endowment mortgage, she has 
provided an annual mortgage statement (Deedstore) for 2001, which shows the account 
details. And I think Miss W would have sent this, if shed been told by Brazier that H hadnt 
been able to locate an account for her. And if this information had been sent to H before 
the August 2019 they might have been able to determine whether Miss  W had or hadnt 
been mis-sold PPI. 
Brazier said theyd a LoA from Miss W in January 2019, so its not in dispute Miss W had 
authorised Brazier to act on her behalf in pursuing whether shed any PPI. And I think this 
gave Brazier sufficient time to look to obtain the information needed by H to help them in 
identifying Miss Ws account before the deadline.
But. I havent seen any evidence that Brazier asked Miss W for any further information about 
her endowment mortgage after H  told them they couldnt locate her account. And this 
meant H didnt investigate whether Miss W had been mis-sold PPI as they hadnt located 
an account for a mis-sold PPI claim to be made. So, I think Miss W has lost the opportunity 
for her claim to be fully investigated. And I think Brazier should compensate Miss W for this.
Putting things right
Im unable to speculate on whether Miss W was mis-sold PPI, and if she had been whether 
any claim would have been upheld by H as there are several factors that H would have 
had to consider. So, I cant know whether she would or wouldnt have received any redress. 
But I think she has been deprived of the opportunity for a mis-sold PPI claim to be 
considered.
Our investigator said Brazier should compensate Miss W the sum of £250 for loss of 
opportunity, I think this is fair and reasonable. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Brazier Consulting Services Ltd to pay Miss W £250 for 
loss of opportunity.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman