DRN-2698519
The complaint
Mr O complains Revolut Ltd unfairly closed his account and failed to raise a chargeback for 
a purchase he made. He wants the Revolut to reimburse him for the payment he made and 
compensation for the poor customer service he received.
What happened
Revolut decided to review Mr Os account and blocked him from accessing it. It asked Mr O 
to provide evidence of the cards he used to top up his account, copies of payslips, and 
evidence related to an account he holds with another bank. He was also asked about 
several refunds on his account. Mr O supplied the evidence Revolut asked for.
Mr O said he wanted his balance returned and complained to Revolut, who rejected his 
complaint. Mr O brought his complaint to our service. Shortly afterwards Revolut completed 
its review, returned the funds it was holding to Mr O, and decided to close his account.
Mr O said Revolut failed to raise a chargeback for a large payment he made the month 
before his account was frozen. He said he paid for an item through a well-known online 
marketplace but received a box containing only packaging material. Mr O raised the matter 
with the police and its online fraud reporting arm.
Mr O contacted Revolut on multiple occasions via its online chat function. Eventually Revolut 
told him it wasnt going to raise the chargeback because it no longer provided services to 
him once his account was closed.
An investigator at our service decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. They found:
- Revolut has important legal and regulatory responsibilities and it was reasonable for 
it to block Mr Os account to safeguard the account during its review.
- It was reasonable for Revolut not to have raised a chargeback during the review or 
after the account was closed.
Mr O wasnt happy with the investigators findings. He said:
- Reviewing his account wasnt a good reason not to raise a chargeback. He was the 
victim of fraud.
 
- Revoluts decision to close the account was based on him bringing a complaint to our 
service.
- Firms do have legal and regulatory obligations, but Revolut were blocking an 
abnormally high amount of customers accounts compared to other firms.
- Revolut had prevented him from accessing proper customer service. 
The investigator said they could only investigate what happened on Mr Os account. Only the 
regulator, the FCA, could consider the appropriateness of Revoluts conduct towards a large 
number of customers.
Mr O asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. He also raised the matter of his partners Revolut account being closed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why:
- I understand why Mr O might think Revolut closed his account because he brought 
his complaint to our service. Revoluts decision to close the account was made 
shortly afterwards. But having looked at the basis for Revoluts decision, Im satisfied 
it was reasonable and not based on Mr O exercising his right to complaint.
- Mr O is concerned about the number of customer accounts Revolut is blocking and 
closing. But I can only consider what happened to Mr O, and whether Revolut closing 
his account was unfair. The conduct of a firm is for the regulator, the FCA, to 
consider.
- Revolut has important legal and regulatory responsibilities, and it can review and 
monitor accounts in relation to them. I find Revolut were able to freeze Mr Os access 
to the account during its review. And, Im satisfied it didnt cause an undue delay 
performing the review. It sent the remaining balance back to Mr O promptly once the 
review was completed.
- Mr O says Revolut ought to have raised a chargeback for a large payment he made 
the month before his account was frozen. I can see Mr O has received several 
refunds from merchants over the time he has had the account. And its also clear 
Revolut asked him about certain refunds when it blocked his account.
- Revolut doesnt always have to raise a chargeback. There may be a variety of 
reasons why it doesnt. One of those reasons could be it doesnt think there is a 
reasonable prospect of the chargeback succeeding. Or it might think raising a 
chargeback would be inappropriate considering the individual circumstances of a 
customer and their account.
I have carefully considered the outcome of Revoluts review and its basis, as well as 
its reasons for closing the account. And, when weighed together, Im satisfied 
Revoluts decision not to raise the chargeback was reasonable.
- After reviewing Revoluts online chat responses to Mr O, I understand why he 
became frustrated by the service he received.
The messages Mr O received were often standardised. They repeated Revolut 
wouldnt provide services to him anymore. But they didnt directly reference the 
chargeback, so Mr O likely felt Revolut werent listening to him. And, on one occasion 
Revolut referred to Mr O by the wrong name and then apologised.
On balance, however, Im satisfied Revoluts errors dont warrant compensation in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I doubt Mr O would have been satisfied by 
Revoluts response even if it had been clearer that the chargeback wasnt going to be made. So, Mr O would still have experienced much of the same frustration that went 
on to experience.
- Mr O said his partners Revolut account was closed. But this is a complaint for his 
partner to bring if they are unhappy about the closure. I have not considered this 
point as part of my decision.
For the reasons I have given, I am not upholding Mr Os complaint.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman