DRN-2408609
The complaint
Mr M complains that Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) unfairly voided (cancelled from the start) 
his home insurance policy and refused to pay his claim for damage caused by a fire.
What happened
Mr M says he moved into the property he rented from his son in February 2016. He insured 
the property when he moved in. In March 2016, his chimney caught fire and caused 
extensive damage to the property. Mr M claimed on his home insurance policy held with 
Covea. Initially Covea accepted the claim. But in July 2016, Covea voided the policy and 
declined the claim on three grounds:
Misrepresentation regarding the age of the property
Misrepresentation regarding the property being a listed building
Misrepresentation regarding a previous flood 
In June 2018 Mr M asked Covea to re-consider its decision to void his policy. Hed appointed 
a representative to take on his complaint and wanted Covea to provide him with information. 
Then in May 2019 Mr M challenged Coveas decision as he now knew the property wasnt a 
listed building. Covea agreed to withdraw those grounds for voidance but maintained its 
position on the other two grounds.
In March 2020 Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But she didnt think this was 
deliberate or reckless. She believed it was careless. So she felt that although Covea had 
acted fairly when it voided his policy, it hadnt acted fairly when itd said that his 
misrepresentation was reckless. So she asked Covea to return his premium for the policy. 
Covea agreed with our investigator but Mr M didnt. Mr Ms representative said that Covea 
had declined the claim based on information that came to light after the fire. And that that 
information wasnt available to Mr M at the time he completed the proposal form for his home 
insurance. So he said that as Mr M completed the proposal form honestly, its unfair to 
penalise him because he didnt know the correct answers to some of the questions.
So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is one fundamental question to consider in this complaint. The question is whether 
Covea acted fairly and reasonably when it voided Mr Ms policy. Having looked at all the 
evidence, I believe that it did. Ill explain why. Ill only address the alleged misrepresentation 
about the age of the property as the other areas of alleged misrepresentation dont impact 
my decision. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy like Mr Ms home 
insurance policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable customer.
And if a customer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea thinks that Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he answered the question on the proposal form, When was the property built?. I think we 
can all agree that this is a clear question. In his first witness statement of 15 April 2016, Mr 
M said that the property was built in the 16th century, although he noted that some parts of 
the building had been rebuilt much more recently. His second statement of 15 April 2016 
contradicts his first, as he said it was built in 1940 because most of the property was rebuilt 
at this time. However in a statement provided by his representative, Mr M said, the property 
is built of brick has a tiled roof and was effectively rebuilt in its entirety in the 1940s it would 
appear unbeknown to me certain parts are older; I was not aware of this and completed the 
form online in good faith. For Mr M to have made a misrepresentation about the age of the 
property, Covea must show that Mr M didnt take reasonable care when answering the 
question. Even if Mr M didnt know the exact date, I can see from his statements that he 
knew it was originally built much earlier than 1940. And as the legal owner of the property 
was Mr Ms son it wouldve been easy for Mr M to ask him to confirm the age of the property. 
So I agree with Covea that Mr M didnt take reasonable care to not make a 
misrepresentation about the age of the property. So now I need to look at whether Mr Ms 
misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation. That is, would itve had made a 
difference to the insurance Covea was prepared to provide. 
I need to look at what Covea wouldve done had it known the correct information. Ive seen 
details of Coveas acceptance criteria, and Im satisfied that had Covea known of the true 
age of the property, it wouldnt have insured it. 
This means Im satisfied Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Following our investigators view, Covea has accepted that Mr Ms qualifying 
misrepresentation was careless, not deliberate or reckless. Based on all the evidence, I 
agree that Mr Ms misrepresentation was careless. CIDRA outlines that in this situation the 
insurer can void the policy and refuse all claims, but it must return the premiums. So Im 
going to ask Covea to return any premiums paid under the policy.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr M. But Covea is allowed to decide the age of 
properties its prepared to cover. And it wouldnt have offered him a home insurance policy if 
itd known the true age of the property.
 
Putting things right
Covea should return any premiums paid under the policy.  
My final decisionI uphold the complaint. I can see that Covea Insurance Plc acted fairly when it voided Mr Ms 
home insurance policy, But I require Covea Insurance Plc to reimburse the premium 
payments made under the voided policy, as it has agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman