DRN-3651241
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a package 
bank account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) on 17 October 2008. 
They paid a fee for this account. Mr and Mrs L had previously held a free account since May 
1985.
Mr and Mrs L say that when they were sold the account in 2008, they were told their account 
was changing to one that came with a fee for insurance benefits and they were not given the 
option of having a free account.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr and Mrs Ls complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld. As Mr and Mrs L disagreed it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold. I will explain why.
There is limited information available from the time Mr and Mrs L were sold their URCA. But 
this isnt unusual considering how long ago the sale took place and that businesses arent 
required to keep this type of information indefinitely.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
Mr and Mrs L say they were told they had no choice in accounts and that they had to take 
the URCA that came with insurance benefits. Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs L have told 
us, but I think its unlikely BoS told them they had no choice but to take a fee-paying 
package bank account. If I were to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint for this reason, I would 
have to see strong evidence that they were given this information by BoS and I havent seen 
this.
Mr and Mrs Ls account was also a free account for more than 20 years before the upgrade 
took place, and free accounts were generally available through most banks. So, I think Mr 
and Mrs L would have known the option of having a free bank was available to them.
l havent seen anything from the available evidence to show Mr and Mrs L were advised to 
take the URCA and from what we know about BoSs sales processes at the time I dont think 
BoS gave Mr and Mrs L a tailored recommendation to take the URCA. 
As BoS didnt provide a tailored recommendation to Mr and Mrs L to take the account it 
didnt have to check it was right for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs L enough 
information so they could decide if the account suited their circumstances at the time.
At the time Mr and Mrs L took their URCA it came with worldwide family travel insurance, 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, home emergency cover, card care protection 
and travel accident cover.
The URCA also offered an interest free overdraft up to £300 and preferential rates on 
savings.
Package bank accounts are not tailored to the individual customer so its not unusual to find 
that customers with this type of account are unable to use all its benefits. For example, the 
breakdown cover for those that dont drive. Not being able to use some of the benefits 
doesnt mean the account was mis-sold. 
Since holding the URCA, the interest free overdraft has been used and call outs have been 
made on the breakdown cover. There has also been a claim on the travel insurance. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that any of the terms and conditions of the account would 
have restricted Mr and Mrs L from using the other benefits.
I think the benefits of the account were likely discussed with Mr and Mrs L to some extent 
when they were sold the URCA and I think they would have found at least some of the 
benefits appealing. And as I dont have enough to say Mr and Mrs L didnt choose to take 
the account knowing they had an option of a free account I dont think the account was mis-
sold.
Mr and Mrs L have further said that they have not used the benefits of the account in recent 
years and this has been further impacted by the national pandemic. They also hold duplicate 
insurances with different providers so dont need the cover under the URCA. In addition to 
this Mr L was told he no longer qualified for the travel insurance offered with the account 
from age 71.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L havent made use of the URCA benefits in recent years. But the 
benefits remained in place and they were able to use them if they needed to. Its not BoSs 
responsibility to check if the benefits are being regularly used or not, and while the travel 
insurance no longer covered Mr L it continued to cover Mrs L as she had not yet reached the 
age limitation on the insurance.
Mr and Mrs L were also sent annual eligibility statements by BoS that should have prompted 
them to check the suitability of the URCA. But overall, it is for Mr and Mrs L to review the 
benefits of the account to decide if they continued to meet their requirements. And if they 
were able to get the cover they needed elsewhere at a better price it would be for them to 
make a decision to keep or cancel their URCA.
In summary I think Mr and Mrs L chose to take the URCA based on their circumstances at 
the time and I dont think BoS has done anything wrong. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs L were 
mis-sold the account.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman