DRN-1886389
The complaint
Mr E complains that Cambridge Building Society (CBS) didn't accept some cheques he 
wanted to deposit to his account.
What happened
Mr E wanted to deposit some cheques to his account, but CBS didn't accept a few of them. 
CBS said they couldn't accept the cheques as they weren't written in the right format. 
CBS explained that a new image based clearing system for cheques had been introduced. 
This means that cheques clear through an automated service and there was no leeway for 
manual intervention. Some cheques were returned or refused as CBS said they didn't meet 
the new standard format of how cheques should be written. CBS apologised for any 
inconvenience that had been caused.
Mr E brought his complaint to this service saying the reason he opened the account was to 
deposit cheques. One of our investigators looked into what happened. She thought 
CBS acted reasonably by not accepting the cheques as they weren't written in the standard 
format. Mr E disagreed saying the cheques had been accepted elsewhere, so the complaint 
has come to me a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's clear to me how strongly Mr E feels about what happened. I can understand this 
frustration as Mr E says he took the cheques to another financial institution where they were 
accepted. But this doesn't mean CBS acted incorrectly by not accepting them.
In the past CBS had leeway to accept cheques, but with the new image based clearing 
system this was no longer the case. CBS explained this change in procedure to Mr E and 
apologised for any inconvenience. They said amounts on cheques had to be written in a 
standard format, and that signatures had to be in a certain place. 
I haven't seen the cheques that were refused in the branch as they were kept by Mr H and 
deposited elsewhere. But from what both Mr H and CBS have said I'm persuaded the 
cheques weren't written in the acceptable format. So I can understand why CBS didn't 
accept them. 
I can't say why another financial institution accepted the cheques when CBS didn't. It's up to 
each financial business to set their own procedures. 
All of this isn't to say that Mr E didn't have some inconvenience; he did. But looking at what 
happened, I'm satisfied CBS acted fairly and reasonably in not accepting the cheques 
that weren't written in the standard acceptable format. My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman