DRN-2711373
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the credit score Experian Limited have given her, as she thinks its 
incorrect.
What happened
Miss M complains that her credit file shows a score of very poor. Miss M says Experian told 
her this was because of two defaulted credit card accounts. Miss M doesnt think this is fair 
as she says she doesnt have a mortgage nor does she have any county court judgments 
(CCJs), so she doesnt think the score is correct. Miss M says this issue hasnt yet impacted 
her financially, but that it could in the future.
Experian say they reviewed Miss Ms account and could see she had multiple defaulted 
credit accounts. Experian concluded they were showing Miss Ms score based on the data 
they hold, so they didnt think they had done anything wrong.
Unhappy with Experians response, Miss M brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Miss Ms concerns. In summary, she said Experian had given a fair 
and reasonable explanation about how they calculate credit scores, and why its likely Miss 
Ms credit score is low. Given Miss Ms credit score isnt shared with anyone, our investigator 
didnt think Miss M had been impacted. So, she didnt think Experian had acted unfairly.
Miss M disagreed. She remained of the opinion her credit score shouldnt be recorded as 
very poor just because of two defaulted accounts. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Experian say they calculate an individuals credit score by using the information on the credit 
report  this meaning, if an individuals credit score is low, its likely because there is 
negative information about them on their credit report. As they use this same approach for 
every score they work out, they can't change how they calculate it for different people or 
make exceptions for individual cases.
Experian have provided evidence to show Miss M has two defaulted accounts showing on 
her credit file. And that they arent due to come off her credit file until 2022 and 2025. 
Additionally, Experian say Miss M was relying on a high proportion of her credit, indicating 
she may be becoming more reliant on credit. As a result of these factors, Miss M was given 
a lower credit score. Having carefully thought about this, I dont find Experians explanation 
to be unreasonable. I say this because Miss M had some negative information showing on 
her credit file  such as the two defaulted accounts.
Ive also thought about what Miss M has said in relation to not having a mortgage or CCJs 
therefore, she doesnt think her score should be showing as very poor. However, as 
Experian have explained, the score can be impacted by any negative information on a credit 
file. So, I dont think it really matters that Miss M doesnt have a mortgage or any CCJs as 
she does have other negative information on her credit file, as Ive explained above.
Experian have confirmed that no one except the consumer and Experian have access to the 
credit score. Businesses that provide credit have their own systems in place to assess 
applications and dont have access to Experians credit score  only information such as the 
types of credit a consumer has. So, whilst I can appreciate Miss Ms worry that the low score 
may have an impact on any future credit applications she may make, I havent found 
anything to suggest the score Experian have given Miss M has been done so incorrectly - or 
has led to a loss for her.
I understand Miss M says she knows of other people who are in a worse financial situation 
than hers. However, their credit score is higher than hers. As Im only able to look into Miss 
Ms complaint and her circumstances, unfortunately, Im not able to comment any further on 
this.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Miss M as I know she feels strongly 
that her credit score is incorrect. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I am not persuaded 
Experian have done anything wrong.
 My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman