DRN-4019576
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain that Tesco Underwriting Limited have unfairly declined an 
insurance claim for a lost hearing aid.
For ease of reading I will only refer to Mr D in my decision.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr D renewed his Tesco insurance cover for a further 12 months. In 
November 2022 Mr D said he lost one of his hearing aids in his garage, and despite an 
extensive search hasnt located the missing hearing aid. He made a claim for the lost item 
against his Tesco Home Insurance cover. But Tesco declined his claim as they said the item 
wasnt covered under the policy as Mr D had lost it at home. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Tescos response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mr D had contents cover under his policy but not the optional personal 
possessions cover. He said Tesco had applied the terms and conditions of the policy fairly in 
declining the claim.
Mr D didnt agree he said personal possessions were covered under his policy and Tesco 
had declined his claim as the item had been lost in his home. He asked for an ombudsman 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr D is upset as hed upgraded his hearing aids in March 2022 and has had 
to pay for a replacement for his lost hearing aid. While I empathise with the position Mr D 
finds himself in, for me to say Tesco must do something different I must first be satisfied that 
theyve done something wrong. I cant see that they have here which is why I wont be 
asking them to do anything else. Ill explain why.
When a policy holder makes a claim on their contents insurance, its up to them to show the
insurer an insurable event has taken place. Insurable events are listed in the policy and 
reflect the fact that no policy covers everything that might happen.
Mr D made his claim against his contents insurance. The policy defines contents and this 
includes personal possessions. The policy defines portable medical equipment as being 
personal possessions. Id consider Mr Ds hearing aid as being portable medical equipment 
and so would be considered a personal possession under his contents insurance policy.
The policy under Contents cover says What is covered
Your and your familys contents are covered for loss or damage arising as a result of the 
insured incidents listed in the sections below when they are in the buildings and in the open 
but within the boundary of the home.
The policy also defines home which covers the main building and any garages or 
outbuildings. Mr D lost his hearing aid in his garage.  So, Mr D could make a claim for the 
loss of his hearing aid as a personal possession.
But Tesco declined Mr Ds claim, so I need to determine whether they applied the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ds policy fairly and reasonably. I can see for the policy terms and 
conditions Tesco say what they wont pay for:
Any loss or damage that results from the incident that caused you to claim except as   
specifically provided for under this policy.
Ive considered the insured incidents provided under the contents cover of Mr Ds policy. 
The policy specifically details 27 insured events I wont list all 27 here but they range from 
fire, lightening, explosion or earthquake, smoke, fire, flood, theft to accidental damage.  
Having considered all 27 provisions I cant say that the way Mr Ds hearing aid was lost is 
covered under any of the specified provisions. So, I dont think the loss of Mr Ds hearing aid 
is an insurable event covered under this part of his policy.
The policy also contains a headed section -  Contents Optional Cover  Personal 
Possessions.  This is additional cover for loss, theft and damage for personal possessions 
anywhere in the UK including in the home.  But this cover would only apply if its shown in 
the policy schedule. Ive seen Tescos Statement of Fact that shows that the optional cover 
for personal possessions wasnt taken out by Mr D. And so, Mr Ds hearing aid wouldnt be 
considered under this section of his policy.
I know Mr D will be disappointed by my decision, but the loss of his hearing aid isnt covered 
under his policy as it wasnt an insurable event. So, I dont think Tesco has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining his claim for his lost hearing aid.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman