DRN-2946653
The complaint
Mr G complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC made mistakes when transferring direct debit 
instructions and other payments to his new account with them. This led to payments being 
missed and funds not being received.
What happened
Mr G attended a meeting at a Barclays branch on 30 September 2019. He wanted to close a 
joint business account he was party to and open a new personal account in his sole name. 
He offered to transfer money from the business account to his new account together with 
various direct debits instructions. Barclays told Mr G that he wouldnt need to transfer the 
payments himself and that they would make all the necessary arrangements.
Shortly after this meeting, Mr G discovered that two of those direct debits hadnt been paid 
from his new account. He also found that payments hadnt been received into that account 
as expected. This included pension payments and a regular transfer of £1,000 sent by a 
third party.
Mr G visited a Barclays branch in an attempt to resolve the problems hed experienced. 
Barclays told him that the problems lay with Barclays Business Banking and that the branch 
could only deal with Personal Banking matters.
Mr G complained to Barclays by letter dated 17 March 2020. Barclays investigated Mr Gs 
complaint and agreed that thered been delays in transferring his regular payments (direct 
debits) to his new sole account. They also said that Mr G would need to advise his new 
account details to anyone that was regularly paying money into his account. They 
apologised for their errors and offered £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr G also had a problem with an over payment made to his business credit card account. A 
refund cheque had been provided but was payable to the joint business account name. 
Barclays said they couldnt pay this into his new personal sole account. Mr G also 
complained about this. Barclays said that he needed to refer this aspect to the business 
credit card company as it wasnt something they could deal with.
Mr G wasnt happy with Barclays response. Hed spent considerable time trying to resolve 
matters despite Barclays assurances. So, he decided to refer his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Gs complaint. She agreed that Barclays had made 
mistakes here. She said that the inconvenience caused was significant and thought that 
Barclays should pay a further £50 compensation in addition to that already offered. Barclays 
agreed with our investigators findings
While Mr G was happy with our investigator s findings, he didnt think that the additional 
compensation proposed was sufficient. He thought that the amount didnt reflect the time 
hed spent trying to resolve the problems caused by Barclays. So, he asked that his 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two distinct, but related aspects to Mr Gs complaint. One relates to delays 
receiving a refund for an overpayment paid to a business credit card account previously 
used by Mr G. On this point, I havent been able to investigate the matter in any detail. 
Barclays have said that any complaint on this aspect would need to be made to the card 
issuer separately. This wasnt an account provided by Barclay Bank UK PLC so isnt a 
complaint that theyve been able to address. Barclays suggested this to Mr G in their letter of 
23 September 2020. 
The second aspect relates to the transfer of regular payments to his new sole account. This 
includes direct debits being paid out and payments that were supposed to be received into 
his account.
I have reviewed the statements for Mr Gs new sole account and compared the payments 
made by direct debit against those previously made from his joint business account. I can 
see that there are two specific direct debits that werent transferred in sufficient time to 
ensure payments due were met on time.
Barclays have suggested that this resulted from delays in their Business Banking team. Both 
Barclays Business and Personal banking fall under Barclays Bank UK PLC although they do 
operate separately within the group. Normally, Barclays would provide details of any account 
details change direct to the companies who were originating the direct debit claims. So, it 
appears that this information was provided too late for two of the direct debits.
Clearly this wasnt down to anything Mr G had or hadnt done. Barclays were clear that they 
would deal with all aspects of this. So, I think its clear that they were responsible for this 
error. I am pleased that Barclays have accepted that responsibility and apologised to Mr G.
Aside from the direct debits, Mr G had also been receiving payments into the joint business 
account. I understand it was intended that these payments would continue to be received 
into Mr Gs new sole account going forward. 
Barclays said that Mr G was informed that any person or organisation making regular 
payments into the joint business account would need to be given his new account details, if 
they were to continue. They said that Mr G would need to provide this information to those 
parties. But it appears that this didnt happen immediately, so payments werent received. 
This included the £1,000 expected. This appears to have been sent to the old joint business 
account, so the payment was rejected and returned as this account had been closed.
My overriding impression is that there appeared to be a lack of clarity about who was 
completing which task, i.e. opening Mr Gs account, transferring direct debits and providing 
new account details to those sending payments to Mr G. I can see how this might have been 
confusing for Mr G and so Im pleased that Barclays have accepted their part in what went 
wrong here. 
Our investigator suggested that Barclays should pay additional compensation of £50 to Mr G 
to reflect the inconvenience and time spent trying to resolve matters. Although I appreciate 
that Mr G doesnt agree, this amount feels fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to ask them to pay anything more. 
I think its also important to recognise that the delays and problems Mr G experienced in 
relation to his business credit card refund are a separate matter. They relate to a separate 
company and any remaining concerns would need to be directed to that company as a 
separate complaint. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay further compensation of £50 in addition to the £50 already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman