DRN-3226826
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about the sale of a legal expenses insurance policy by Avantia Insurance 
Limited. Mr P feels the policy was mis-sold.  
Alll references to Avantia, include their agents.
 
What happened
In March 2021 Mr P bought a legal expenses insurance policy as an add on to home 
insurance from Avantia. Following this he made a claim on the policy, which was declined.
The insurer of the policy said cover for the claim was excluded because the claim related to 
designing, converting, extending or building where the contract value exceeds £5,000.  Mr P 
was unhappy with this. He feels that Avantia are responsible because they sold him a policy 
that didnt cover him for the claim he made.
Avantia rejected Mr Ps complaint. They said it was up to him to satisfy himself that the cover 
was suitable for his needs and circumstances and if he wasnt happy with it, he shouldve 
cancelled the insurance. 
Our investigator also considered Mr Ps complaint. He concluded, amongst other things that 
the exclusion Mr P was unhappy with is common in legal expenses insurance policies so its 
possible he wouldnt have been able to take out another policy without this exclusion in 
place. He also said he didnt think Mr P wouldve done anything differently, had the term 
been drawn to his attention by Avantia, such that it would put him in a better position to the 
one he finds himself in now. Mr P didnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr P feels that Avantia mis-sold the policy because it didnt provide him with cover for the 
claim he later made. 
Ive looked at the way the policy was sold. The policy was sold by telephone on a non-
advised basis. That means Avantia needed to provide Mr P with enough information to 
ensure it was suitable for his needs and circumstances when taking out the cover. In this 
case Mr P says that Avantia didnt do this. I appreciate why he might think that. I can see 
from the call that he had with them, that Avantia didnt draw the specific exclusion that later 
led to his claim being turned down, to his attention when offering cover. But I dont think that 
means the policy was mis-sold.
It's true that wed expect the seller of a policy to draw any significant, unusual or onerous 
features of a policy to a policyholders attention. The exclusion in this case however isnt in 
my view particularly unusual. As the investigator said, its quite a common feature of legal 
expenses insurance policies. Whether its significant or onerous, is in my view arguable. But 
I dont think that makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint.
In order to conclude that Avantia did something wrong, Id need to decide that their failure to 
draw Mr Ps attention to this exclusion at the point of sale meant he wouldve done 
something differently, like not taking the policy out or taking a policy out that didnt contain 
this exclusion. Im not persuaded that this wouldve been the case. I say so for a number of 
reasons. Firstly, the exclusion is common in policies of this nature. So even if Mr P had 
known about it and been unhappy with it, I think he might have struggled to easily find cover 
elsewhere without the same exclusion being in place. Secondly, the policy was offered free 
of charge. During the call with Avantia, Mr P was also offered enhanced cover instead of the 
one he took out. This was referred to more specifically as Full Legal Cover for an annual 
cost of £23.99. Mr P declined this. This suggests that he didnt want to pay anything more 
than he was already paying for his household insurance policy. Because of this I dont think 
he wouldve gone elsewhere and taken out a standalone legal expenses insurance policy at 
additional cost. 
Finally, its worth noting that the purpose of this type of legal expenses insurance policy is to 
cover a policyholder for problems that might happen in the future but not things they might 
have known about when taking out the insurance. Thats because this policy, like virtually all 
other legal expenses insurances, only provides cover in those circumstances. So I dont 
think Mr P wouldve been looking specifically for policies that didnt contain the specific 
exclusion this one did. And if he was, its unlikely to have covered him for the problem he 
had in any event. So I dont think I can say that Avantia needs to do anything in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against Avantia Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman