DRN-4149238
The complaint
G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund the full amount of 
money it lost after it fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
G complains that from 22 June 2022 it made several payments from its account held with 
NatWest to what it thought was a legitimate food supplier.
122/06/2022 £12,008.93
230/06/2022 £19,906.44
301/07/2022 £8,268.88
405/07/2022 £4,741.80
508/07/2022 £12,794.48
614/07/2022 £19,717.31
718/07/2022 £8,005.30
819/07/2022 £10,469.40
921/07/2022 £17,024.43
10 22/07/2022 £17,396.33
11 25/07/2022 £18,865.36
12 27/07/2022 £8,629.50
G says in June 2022 it was called by a company offering a container of frozen fish for a 
competitive price. G started to communicate with the supplier and sent a deposit for the 
container of goods and shipping costs. 
After the initial payment, the supplier asked for several other payments for various things. 
These included import taxes, port fines, insurance, city permits and the balance of the 
purchase of frozen food. In total G paid the third party £157,828.16.
 In October 2022, G felt it may have been the victim of a scam when the container didnt turn 
up, so it logged a complaint with NatWest. 
NatWest looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. NatWest said that as the payments 
were international, G wouldnt be covered under the CRM scheme. It went on to say that it 
hadnt found the bank had made any error when G made the relevant payments. As G 
remained unhappy, it brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator found NatWest didnt unreasonably miss opportunities to prevent the payments 
or recover them. 
G didnt agree with the investigators view, so, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ill explain why.
Im sorry if G lost money to scam but this doesnt automatically entitle it to a refund from 
NatWest. It would only be fair for me to tell NatWest to reimburse G if I thought NatWest 
reasonably ought to have prevented the payments or it unreasonably hindered recovery of 
the funds.
Prevention
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Im satisfied that although G didnt intend its money to go to a fraudster, it did authorise all 
the payments. I understand it wouldnt have authorised the payments if itd known the 
purchase was a scam, but NatWest is expected to process payments that a customer 
authorises or instructs it to make, and that is what it did. The Payment Services Regulations 
(PSRs), state that payments are authorised if the payer consented to them and, in this case, 
Im satisfied G consented to all the payments as at the time, it believed it was making 
payments for the purposes of a legitimate supply of goods.
However, where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and 
reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they authorised the payments.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider NatWest should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; andIn some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Our service has referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good industry practice 
at the time in many previous decisions published on our website.
Having considered the circumstances of the payments G made, Im satisfied that the 
payments were reasonably in line with other payments G was making from its account 
around that time. G had previously made payments of the same amount and higher, and the 
scam payments just wouldnt have reasonably stood out in my opinion as suspicious or 
otherwise remarkable given the prior account history, and the fact they were being made 
from a business account which had previously made several large payments to suppliers. 
So, for materially the same reasons as explained by our investigator, Im not persuaded 
NatWest ought to have been obliged to have flagged them as suspicious or unusual before 
following Gs instructions to send them. Im therefore satisfied that I cant fairly say that 
NatWest unreasonably missed an opportunity to prevent the payments (nor therefore Gs 
loss) before they were sent.
Recovery
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect NatWest to have done anything 
further until G notified the bank that it had been scammed. 
Once NatWest was notified, it tried to recover the funds from the beneficiary bank and it 
advised G to complete a report for the Turkish Authorities. I understand this was because 
recovery from the beneficiary account in Turkey where the receiving account was based was 
subject to local laws and practice, and NatWest couldnt guarantee or force co-operation 
from the Turkish beneficiary bank which said it couldnt return the funds without its 
customers (the scammers) permission. So, I dont think NatWest unfairly hindered recovery 
of the funds. It tried to recover them but was unable to through no fault of its own. So, Im 
satisfied I cant fairly hold NatWest responsible for G being unable to recover the funds. 
I realise this means G is out of pocket. And Im sorry it lost this money. But I think this was 
ultimately caused by the scammers here, and not NatWest. I cant reasonably ask NatWest 
to reimburse G in circumstances where I dont think it ought reasonably to have prevented 
the payments or recovered them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman