DRN-4250963
The complaint
Mr N complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly decided that he wasnt eligible for its £200 
account switch incentive.
What happened
In February, Mr N arranged to switch a third-party bank account over to TSB, so he could 
take advantage of TSBs £200 switching incentive. The incentive was conditional on certain 
criteria being met, including:
Opening the relevant type of account between 1 February 2023 and 3 March 2023
Complete the account switch, log in to the TSB mobile banking app, make at least 
one debit card payment and have two active direct debits on the account  all by 24 
March 2023
Additional conditions (which arent relevant at this time) also needed to be met in the 
six months from 1st April 2023
Mr N complained to TSB after being informed he didnt qualify for the incentive payment. 
This happened after he contacted TSB via its online chat service a day before the 24 March 
deadline, because he hadnt received his new debit card. Although TSB issued a new card, it 
advised him that he wouldnt receive the incentive payment because he hadnt set up the 
two direct debits on his new account. Mr N discovered hed transferred the wrong account 
from the third-party bank due to his own error  he says he used this as a back-up account, 
so it didnt have any direct debits set up.
In its response, TSB explained that Mr Ns account switch completed a month before the 
deadline, but there were no direct debits set up on the account, so he didnt qualify for the 
incentive payment. The bank said it couldnt be held liable for Mr Ns error.
Mr N escalated his complaint to this service, asking that the bank honour the £200 payment 
he expected. Mr N said he relied on receiving this payment and that the bank affected his 
mental health because of the way it handled things. Our investigator concluded that TSB 
wasnt responsible for Mr N failing to meet the criteria by the deadline. But he went on to say 
that the bank shouldve done more to help Mr N when he reached out via its online chat 
service. Because it failed to do so, our investigator asked TSB to pay Mr N £50 
compensation.
TSB doesnt agree  so the complaint has been passed to me for a final say on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that the fairest way to settle this complaint is for TSB to pay Mr N £50 compensation. 
Ill explain why.
TSBs account switch terms explain that Mr N needed to have two direct debits active on his 
new account before the deadline. There were no direct debits set up before the deadline, so 
TSB decided he wasnt eligible for the incentive payment.
Mr N only realised that hed made an error by transferring the wrong account over when he 
contacted TSB a day before the deadline. Mr N says this was a back-up account, so it didnt 
have any direct debits set up. And because he hadnt received his new debit card, he 
couldnt arrange to set up the new direct debits in time. TSB says Mr N didnt need his card 
to set up the direct debits as the account number and sort code for his account wouldve 
sufficed. So it seems to me that the absence of a debit card wouldnt have prevented Mr N 
from setting up the direct debits.
Ultimately, Mr N didnt meet the relevant criteria before the deadline. So I dont think that 
TSB acted unfairly by not paying him the incentive. I know Mr N was concerned that the 
debit card not arriving is what delayed things, but TSB has shown records to demonstrate 
that the card was sent to the correct address. Its unclear why the card didnt arrive the first 
time, but I cant see anything that suggests TSB did something wrong to cause this.
However, I do share the opinion that TSB couldve provided a better service to Mr N when 
he got in touch with the bank via its online chat service. I can see from the chat transcript 
that the advisor informed Mr N that he could set up the direct debits without his debit card. 
And, although it was a day before the deadline, the advisor said that Mr N wasnt eligible for 
the incentive at all.
But the information TSB has shared with us suggests there was a possibility for Mr N to 
meet the deadline, given it seems the bank couldve exercised some flexibility via its own 
procedures. Although I cant fairly say that Mr N wouldve definitely met the deadline 
(particularly as he hadnt used his debit card yet), this potential for him to do so makes me 
think that TSB didnt do enough to support him through the process. The information from 
the advisor was that Mr N was outright ineligible for the incentive, even though it was only a 
day before the deadline and TSBs information indicates otherwise  which was that there 
was the possibility to meet the incentive requirements in time. 
It seems clear to me that Mr N wanted to take advantage of the £200 payment  as he says, 
he needed the money. The TSB advisor couldve done more to support Mr N by providing 
information on how he could set up his direct debits that day or even support him through the 
process of doing so. 
TSB says the advisor wouldnt have had a thorough enough understanding of the switching 
process, to understand that there remained the possibility for Mr N to meet the deadline and 
therefore help him further. But TSB is the bank here and Id expect Mr N to receive the same 
level of expertise and service regardless of who he speaks to. So I dont accept that possible 
lack of knowledge on the advisors part is sufficient for me to decide that its reasonable that 
Mr N wasnt given further support.
Because of TSBs failure to support Mr N in the way Ive described above, I think its fair that 
the bank pays him £50 compensation.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint. To put things right, TSB Bank plc should pay Mr N £50 
compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman