DRN-4248768
The complaint
Mr P complains that Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited didnt update the storage 
address of his caravan for his caravan insurance policy which led to him being unable to 
successfully claim after it was stolen. 
What happened
Mr P purchased caravan insurance through Atlanta who are an insurance broker. Mr P 
stored his caravan at a caravan storage site. The storage site Mr P used when he took the 
policy out was closing down, so he contacted Atlanta to let them know and discuss two 
potential new locations for storing his caravan. 
Atlanta let Mr P know one site wouldnt be an acceptable storage location for his insurer, and 
for the other one it would need to refer the details to the insurer. Atlanta also let Mr P know 
there would be a £25 fee for making the change to his policy. Mr P said he would therefore 
go with the storage location which needed referring to the insurer and would call Atlanta to 
let it know once the caravan had been moved. 
A few months later, Mr Ps caravan was stolen and so he claimed on his policy with the 
insurer. The insurer reviewed the claim and declined it as it didnt know the storage location 
for Mr Ps caravan had changed. Mr P didnt think this was fair and complained. Our service 
considered the complaint against the insurer and didnt uphold it. Mr P then complained to 
Atlanta for not letting the insurer know of the change in storage location. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She found that 
during the call with Atlanta it was agreed that Mr P would call Atlanta to let it know once the 
storage location had changed. And as Atlanta hadnt been told the storage location had 
changed, she didnt think it had done anything wrong by not updating the insurer. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said hed thought the change had been agreed and his card would be 
charged the £25 fee. He also didnt think Atlanta had been clear about what was happening 
and the next steps. 
As Mr P didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im only considering the actions of Atlanta as the broker of Mr Ps policy. The 
decision to decline Mr Ps claim for his stolen caravan has been considered separately by 
this service. 
When Mr P called Atlanta to let it know he needed to change the storage location of the 
caravan, Atlanta was required to give Mr P clear, fair and not misleading information. If it 
hasnt done this, then I would look to see what impact that has had on Mr P. 
Ive listened to the call Mr P had with Atlanta when he discussed the two potential storage 
locations. For one location Atlanta let Mr P know it would need to refer the decision to the 
underwriters of the policy but there would be a £25 charge for making that change. For the 
second location Atlanta inform Mr P that the insurer wouldnt even quote on it due to the 
security measure in place at the second storage location. 
In the call, the advisor says to Mr P that it gives him food for thought to which Mr P replies 
and says it doesnt as he cant leave the caravan at the one which isnt covered. Mr P then 
goes onto say that he will have to go with the first location and follows this by saying Ill ring 
you up at the point Ill swap over then yeah?. The advisor at Atlanta replies by saying yeah 
no problem at all. 
From listening to the call, I do think it could have been clearer on the next steps, however I 
dont agree that Atlanta gave misleading information or said the change to the storage 
location had been processed or confirmed or gave an indication that it would be charging Mr 
Ps card for the change. Im therefore not persuaded Atlanta did anything wrong by not 
telling the insurer Mr P had changed the location of where his caravan was stored, as it was 
agreed Mr P would let Atlanta know once that was done. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr P and I understand the impact this theft 
has had on him. But for the reasons explained Im not going to tell Atlanta to do anything 
else.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman