DRN-3151126
The complaint
Mr M complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mr M was given a loan by 118 118 Money as follows: 
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableDate 
repaid
06/02/2017 £1,550 24 months £156.36 £3,752.64 23/09/2017
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think that 118 118 
Money shouldve provided the loan to Mr M and she set out the steps it needed to 
take to put things right. 
118 118 Money disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that the loan repayment 
was 9.7% of the Mr Ms net monthly income. So it was struggling to understand why our 
adjudicator thought this was such a significant proportion of his income that there was a 
significant risk Mr M wouldnt have been able to meet his existing commitments without 
having to borrow again.
Our adjudicator further explained that the credit report 118 118 Money had obtained when 
assessing Mr Ms loan application showed that his total credit repayments, including those 
shown on its credit report and the monthly repayments for this loan, amounted to over £700 
at the time of sale which was a significant amount of his income.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint. Id like to reassure 
118 118 Money that Ive looked at the complaint afresh and independently reached the same 
conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. And its important to keep in mind that, when working out affordability, a lender 
must take a borrower focussed approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending 
on the customer. The lending decision shouldnt only be about the business risk to the lender 
of not getting its money back. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the 
borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
118 118 Money asked Mr M about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks - 
and it sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that 118 118 Money 
relied on when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr M. 
118 118 Money was satisfied that its income and expenditure assessment showed that Mr M 
should comfortably be able to make the repayments on his 118 118 Money loan out of his 
disposable income after paying his other monthly costs. So 118 118 Money felt this loan was 
affordable for Mr M.
But like our adjudicator, I dont think 118 118 Money properly took into account the 
information it had gathered about Mr Ms overall financial situation or the likelihood of him 
being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
And I dont think 118 118 Money made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr M based on 
the information its credit checks revealed. 
Despite recording information that appeared to show that Mr M had enough spare cash each 
month easily to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think 118 118 Money shouldve 
realised that it couldnt rely on this information. Thats because what Mr M had declared was 
significantly at odds with what 118 118 Money saw on its credit checks showing Mr Ms 
credit history. I think our adjudicator was correct in saying that Mr Ms existing credit commitments came to 
at least £700. There were outstanding loan accounts shown which required periodic 
payments. It isnt clear how much these would continue to cost Mr M each month or for how 
long so I havent included these in my calculations. But its clear that he was making weekly 
repayments of £103 and £75 on two home credit accounts. Roughly speaking, that meant he 
would need to pay more than £700 monthly on those two accounts alone. He also needed to 
make monthly repayments to a credit card with an outstanding balance shown of £230. 
Assuming he made only the minimum monthly repayments this would cost him around £6 
per month. 
118 118 Money understood that Mr Ms monthly income was around £1,600. So this meant 
that the total credit repayments he needed to make when he took out this loan costing him a 
further £156.36 each month took his debt servicing costs to well over £800  which was at 
least half his take home pay. 
I think that was a clear warning sign that his dependency on credit was excessive having 
regard to his income. Especially bearing in mind that Mr M had signed up to make the 
repayments for the next 24 months I think 118 118 Money ought to have realised that his 
credit spending was such a significant proportion of his take home pay each month that, in 
reality, this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for him. 
And I think theres a further reason why 118 118 Money shouldnt have provided this loan to 
Mr M. I say this because 118 118 Money recorded information showing that Mr M spent 
more than £900 meeting his other monthly costs for accommodation, utilities, food and other 
regular payments. But the credit repayments shown on the credit report 118 118 Money 
acquired when Mr M applied for this loan cost more than his remaining disposable income. 
So 118 118 Money shouldve realised that this wasnt a sustainably affordable position for 
Mr M and it shouldnt have provided this loan. 
Mr M intended to spend this loan on a car and so 118 118 Money knew it would add to his 
overall indebtedness. To my mind, there was nothing to indicate that his financial situation 
would be significantly improved by taking out this loan with 118 118 Money. 
For these reasons, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.
As Mr M has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what 118 118 Money did wrong. So, I think 118 118 Money needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that 118 118 Money should pay any additional redress. 
Mr M hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 118 118 
Money acted unfairly towards Mr M in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional 
redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been charged extra for a loan that 
should not have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
I understand the loan is repaid so 118 118 Money should do the following:add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr M having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Ms credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 
118 Money must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman