DRN-3804466
The complaint
Mr G and Ms P complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (Lloyds Bank) 
settlement offer for their claim under their buildings and contents insurance. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont go into detail but will 
summarise the key points. Mr G and Ms Ps en-suite shower tray cracked, and this led to 
water leaking down into their music room. Lloyds Bank instructed company B to assess the 
damage and, following an initial dispute about the cause of the damage to the shower tray, 
Lloyds Bank agreed to consider the claim. Disputes then followed between the parties 
around what should be covered and the level of settlement, so Mr G and Ms P complained. 
Lloyds Bank responded and explained company B had reviewed Mr G and Ms Ps estimate 
of repairs, but they offered a lower amount to settle the claim. During our investigation, 
Lloyds Bank revisited this and increased their settlement offer. This led to a position where 
Lloyds Bank offered £4,625.72 (after deducting the policy excess of £200) to settle the claim 
but Mr G and Ms P wanted £5,462.49 which they said represented their actual costs. Lloyds 
Bank said they were in a position to arrange for their contractors to carry out the work so 
they arent required to cash settle for an amount higher than what their own costs wouldve 
been.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G and Ms P. He thought Lloyds Banks settlement 
offer was reasonable. Mr G and Ms P disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Lloyds Banks offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I 
understand Mr G and Ms P will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this 
decision. 
Theres no dispute between the parties about this being an event which falls within the policy 
cover or that Lloyds Bank should settle the claim. The dispute relates to the settlement 
value. My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with 
minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I think is a fair and reasonable settlement amount 
in the circumstances of this case. 
I can see all costs, apart from the music room, have been agreed. The difference between 
the settlement amount claimed by Mr G and Ms P and what Lloyds Bank are prepared to 
offer relates to the music room, and more specifically, the ceiling and flooring. Mr G and    
Ms P have claimed for £2,020 but Lloyds Bank have offered £1,305.53. The difference is 
down to Lloyds Banks own contractor being able to carry out the work for a lower cost than 
Mr G and Ms Ps own contractor.  
Ive thought about this carefully and taken into account the information I have and whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. The terms and conditions of Mr G and Ms Ps policy 
allow Lloyds Bank to decide how to settle a claim and it goes further to say they can repair or 
rebuild or pay a cash settlement. I can see from information provided by Mr G and Ms P 
theyve received quotes for the repairs to the music room, this includes £1,795 for the 
flooring and £225 for the ceiling. I can see from information provided by Lloyds Bank they 
were in a position to appoint a contractor to carry out the work. 
The policy allows Lloyds Bank to arrange repairs using their own contractors. This isnt 
unusual  or unfair and unreasonable  as insurers will often have a panel of contractors 
who they instruct to carry out repairs. That being the case, while I understand there might be 
reasons why a customer might want to instruct their own contractor, it doesnt automatically 
mean the insurer should be responsible to meet the costs of the customers own contractor. I 
cant see Lloyds Bank have agreed to Mr G and Ms P using their own contractor to carry out 
work in the music room or any confirmation that theyll meet those costs. In this case, given 
that Lloyds Bank are in a position to appoint their own contractor, I dont think its 
unreasonable to limit this part of the claim to the amount it would cost Lloyds Bank to use 
their own contractor. 
I note Mr G and Ms P feel the contract of insurance entitles them to the amount theyre 
claiming. And, they feel the quotes theyve provided demonstrate what theyre claiming for is 
reasonable and proportionate. I am sorry to disappoint Mr G and Ms P, but I dont agree the 
terms and conditions of the policy allow them to claim a cash settlement for any amount 
theyre claiming. As mentioned above, as Lloyds Bank are in a position to appoint their own 
contractor to carry out work, if Mr G and Ms P want to instruct their own contractor, its not 
unreasonable for Lloyds Bank to limit their liability to an amount equal to what it would cost 
them to carry out repairs. 
Mr G and Ms P say theyre entitled to the amount theyre claiming as Lloyds Bank havent 
demonstrated theyre able to carry out the work for the amount theyre offering to settle the 
claim. They dont believe it would cost Lloyds Bank less than the quote provided by their own 
contractor. Mr G and Ms P also say the flooring in the music room is still outstanding and 
hasnt been replaced. I acknowledge Mr G and Ms Ps point but, given that the work hasnt 
been carried out, I think this does give them the option to instruct Lloyds Bank to carry out 
the work. This would also give Mr G and Ms P reassurance that, even if the costs for this are 
greater than the £1,305.53 settlement offer made by Lloyds Bank, they wont be responsible 
for paying any additional sum to their own contractor. I note Mr G and Ms Ps point about 
timescales and when Lloyds Banks appointed contactor would carry out the work. This is 
something which theyll need to discuss with Lloyds Bank should they decide to instruct 
Lloyds Bank to carry out the work. 
I understand Mr G and Ms P will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why they feel its 
fair for Lloyds Bank to settle the claim for the amount theyre claiming. But, I dont think 
Lloyds Bank have acted unfairly in the way theyve assessed the settlement value of the 
claim and, if Mr G and Ms P choose to instruct their own contractor to carry out the work in 
the music room, its not unreasonable for Lloyds Bank to limit their liability for this to what it 
would cost them. 
I wish to reassure Mr G and Ms P Ive read and considered everything theyve sent in, but if I 
havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.My final decision
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited have already made an offer to settle the claim for 
£4,625.72 and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited should settle Mr G and       
Ms Ps claim for £4,625.72, if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman