DRN-3428726
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt help recover the money he lost to a 
scam. Hes also unhappy that HSBC didnt warn him about the potential risk of fraud when 
he made the payments.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr S contacted HSBC and explained that hed been scammed by a 
fraudulent investment company called Tradesprime and had lost £6,385.35. He asked HSBC 
to help recover this money and complained that it failed to protect him from suffering 
financial loss.
 
HSBC asked Mr S for details about the transaction(s) in dispute and when it didnt hear 
back, it rejected the complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mr S referred the matter to our 
service.
Our investigator was able to establish that Mr Ss dispute related to following transactions 
made using his HSBC debit card 
Date Merchant/Payee Amount
27 November 2017 MAS*ROITEKS £505.88 
(plus non-sterling transaction fee of £13.91)
31 January 2018 BlackParrotVR £1,108.14 
(plus non-sterling transaction fee of £30.47) 
29 November 2018 Accra £800.39
(plus non-sterling transaction fee of £22.01)
30 November 2018 FX24 £3,747.29
(plus non-sterling transaction fee of £103.05)
6 December 2018 FX24 £223.31
(plus non-sterling transaction fee of £6.14)
Total payments £6,385.01
(plus non-sterling transaction fee of £175.58)
Total loss £6,560.59
The investigator concluded that Mr S contacted HSBC outside the relevant timeframe and so 
it didnt act unfairly by not attempting to recover the funds. She also thought that the 
transactions werent so out of character such that they ought to have alerted HSBC.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators findings and so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her view, the investigator said that Mr S didnt authorise these transactions. So, as part of 
her investigation, she considered the time limits applicable to raising disputes about 
unauthorised or incorrectly executed transactions; often referred to as the 13-month rule. 
But thats not quite right, as Mr S did authorise the transactions  hes confirmed this in his 
submissions to our service. And this isnt a case of incorrectly executed transactions (for 
example, the beneficiary claiming non-receipt of funds). Mr Ss complaint is that HSBC 
should have prevented him from sending money altogether. So, I dont think that the 13-
month rule is relevant here. 
But that isnt the end of the matter. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by the card 
scheme  MasterCard, Visa or American Express. It allows customers to ask for a 
transaction to be reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services theyve paid for. 
But theres no legal right to a chargeback. And each scheme has its own rules.
Mr Ss debit card was issued under the Visa scheme. So, Visas rules governing 
chargebacks apply. Under the scheme rules, for issues such as the one pertinent to this 
dispute, Mr S would have needed to evidence that:
he attempted to resolve the dispute with the merchant and, if that was unsuccessful, 
he cancelled the service; 
his investment account had funds to withdraw on the date he requested the 
withdrawal; and
he requested a withdrawal equal to or less than the funds available in the investment 
account.
In addition to this, Mr S would have also needed to have submitted his claim within 120 days 
of when he was expecting to receive the service, and within a maximum of 540 days from 
the transaction processing date. 
By the time Mr S contacted HSBC in September 2020, he was outside the time limit. Given 
he was out of time, I dont think HSBC could have reasonably attempted a chargeback claim 
on Mr Ss behalf  even if hed provided full details of the transactions he was disputing and 
the required evidence. 
Even if Mr S had requested a chargeback within the relevant time limits, and provided the 
required evidence, he didnt make the disputed payments to the company he says scammed 
him; he paid other merchants (see above table). This is important because card issuers are 
only able to present a chargeback against the merchant the payment was made to, not 
another party. That the funds may have been subsequently transferred from the merchant on 
to a scammer doesnt give grounds for a chargeback against the merchant the cardholder 
has paid.
While I dont think that HSBC could have done more with regards to the recovery of Mr Ss 
funds, Ive also considered whether it ought to have intervened before allowing the payments 
to be made.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
What this means is that as a starting point Mr S is liable for these transactions unless theres 
evidence that HSBC could and should reasonably have done more to protect him and that 
this would have made a difference to his decision-making. 
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time. HSBC ought to have been monitoring 
accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions, or 
other indicators, that its customers were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments, or declined them altogether, to protect its 
customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
I wouldnt have expected HSBC to have picked up the disputed payments as being 
suspicious solely based on the merchant names. There wasnt, and to my knowledge still 
isnt, a duty on a payment service provider to check the regulatory status of a merchant 
before executing an authorised payment instruction. That said, it isnt unreasonable to 
expect the payment service provider to pay attention to any warnings about the merchant 
from UK and overseas regulators. But here there were no warnings in place about the 
individual merchants when Mr S made the payments. 
Ive next considered the operation of Mr Ss account to determine whether the payments 
were so unusual or uncharacteristic that I think HSBC should have intervened. Having done 
so, I dont consider any of the amounts involved to be so unusual or out of character such 
that they ought to have triggered HSBCs systems. So, I dont think there were grounds for it 
to have intervened before releasing the payments. A bank must balance the extent to which 
it intervenes in payments to try and prevent fraud against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions.  
In summary, I dont think HSBC ought to have prevented these authorised payments from 
being sent. And I dont think that chargeback was an option. For completeness, claims made 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 dont apply to payments made using a 
debit card.
 
I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr S. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. But I can only fairly make an award if I think HSBC 
caused, or contributed to, his loss. For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not persuaded 
that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman