DRN-3260789
The complaint
Ms L complains Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined claims against her Residential 
Property Owners insurance policy. 
Reference to Allianz includes their agents. 
What happened
The background to the dispute is well known to all parties so I wont repeat it here in detail. 
In summary, Ms L reported separate claims to Allianz for a collapsed ceiling and water 
damage. She says tenants in the flat above caused excessive force which caused the ceiling 
to partially collapse. And a water leak caused internal damage. Allianz considered the claims 
but declined them and referred to the policy terms. Ms L wasnt happy and complained. 
Ms L also says Allianz failed to consider the damage to the hallway ceiling and should cover 
the costs to remove the ceiling and debris which they didnt agree to do. 
Allianz responded to the complaints in February and August 2021 maintaining their position. 
As such, Ms L approached our service. 
An investigator didnt recommend it be upheld as she felt Allianz declined the claims fairly, 
and Ms L hadnt demonstrated damage was caused by an insured event. 
Ms L remained unhappy and provided detailed submissions to support her complaint which I 
wont repeat but have considered carefully. As she remained unhappy, she asked for an 
ombudsman to decide, and it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and several complaint points have 
been raised. I will, however, focus on issues which are  in my opinion  relevant to reaching 
a fair outcome to this complaint. That isnt meant as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service. 
Also, its not this services role to handle claims. In my decision, Ive only considered the 
complaint points Ms L raised and Allianz responded to in February and August 2021. Ms Ls 
further claim submissions were passed to Allianz and should Ms L remain unhappy with their 
response, its for her to raise a new complaint. 
Ceiling claim 
Ms L made an accidental damage claim, which is commonly said to be sudden and 
unexpected damage. She says tenants above caused the ceiling to collapse by stomping 
and jumping. Ms L wasnt there when the damage was said to have occurred, but says a 
guest described the noise as a constant earthquake. 
Allianz considered the claim and concluded the damage was the result of gradual 
deterioration rather than accidental damage, so they declined it. Im satisfied this was 
reasonable. 
I say this because Allianzs own loss adjuster and Ms Ls contractor were unable to 
conclusively point out why damage occurred. However, later, Allianzs loss adjuster said, in 
their professional opinion, whilst external factors Ms L reported (tenants in the flat above) 
could have played a part, the dominant cause was gradual deterioration. And even if 
external force was a factor, this would have occurred over time and not by a one-off insured 
event. 
It's for Ms L to prove her claim which Im not satisfied she has. Her own contractor couldnt 
determine the cause or give more weight to her view on the dominant cause. So, whilst 
Allianzs loss adjusters initial views were inconclusive and had quoted the incorrect property 
age  which was addressed  Im satisfied Allianz considered all the evidence reasonably. 
As such, I think Ms Ls accidental damage claim was declined fairly under the policy terms, 
so I wont be directing Allianz to do anything further. 
I also dont think Allianz should cover the costs of removing the ceiling and debris. The claim 
was declined which means Allianz werent liable for the damage. Its clear the ceiling would 
have needed to be removed in any event for a lasting and effective repair to be achieved, 
shown within the quotes Ms L provided, which Allianz werent liable to cover. 
Ceiling in hallway 
Allianzs loss adjuster says no visible damage was present when they attended in 2020. 
Rather, Ms L was concerned the ceiling could collapse. Allianz say the loss adjuster 
explained any preventative work would be maintenance and not to repair damage following 
an insured event. 
Ms L says Allianz failed to validate the claim and provided a quote for the repairs. This says 
the ceiling needed replacing, but it doesnt say how damage occurred. The quote appears to 
suggest the ceiling wasnt level and could fall but its evident within the photos that hadnt 
happened. So, I dont think the information Ms L presented demonstrates the ceiling was 
damaged by an insured event that the policy should have responded to. So, I wont be 
directing Allianz to do anything else in relation to her accidental damage claim for the 
hallway ceiling. 
Water leak 
Ms L made a claim for water damage. Contractors considered the claim and determined, 
broadly, that water entered the property through cracks. It was concluded this was the result 
of wear and tear, so Allianz declined the claim on the basis wear and tear isnt covered 
under the insurance contract. 
Im satisfied this was reasonable as from the evidence presented to Allianz, I find the reports 
share broadly similar features and findings that water ingress was the result of cracked and 
blown render on the outside of the property. And the repair works in my view suggest 
maintenance is required to prevent further water ingress, rather than to repair damage 
caused by a one-off insured event. As such, Im satisfied Allianz acted reasonably when 
relying on their appointed contractors professional opinion, as well as considering the 
evidence presented by Ms L. Ms L says she was unaware damage was occurring as the tenant above carried out works 
without consent. Allianz say the installation of dry lining without Ms Ls consent didnt cause 
the damage. And in any event, for a claim to be met, Ms L must show damage was caused 
by a one-off insured event. 
Whilst its unfortunate Ms L says she only noticed the damage much later, for the policy to 
respond, an insured event must have occurred which, based on the expert reports Ive seen, 
hasnt been demonstrated happened. So, I wont require Allianz to do anything else in 
relation to the claim for a water leak. 
Customer service 
Im aware Ms L is unhappy with the way Allianz dealt with the claims, such as not managing 
her expectations around removing the ceiling and not responding to her claim for the water 
leak in a timely manner, as examples. These matters arent always smooth sailing and while 
I accept Allianz could have provided a better service at times, Im not persuaded they did 
anything so poorly I could fairly require them to compensate Ms L. Allianz have apologised 
and in my view thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
conclusion
Overall, Im satisfied Allianz declined Ms Ls claims fairly. So, I dont require Allianz to do 
anything further in respect of her complaints answered in February and August 2021. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms L. But my decision ends what 
we  in attempting to resolve her dispute with Allianz  can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman