DRN-3211387
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) has declined a claim he 
made under his buildings insurance policy.
Mr R is represented in bringing his complaint. But for ease of reading I will refer only to Mr R.
What happened
Mr R said an area of his driveway where he parks his car had collapsed. He said hed found 
his neighbour hadnt tied in a downpipe properly, so the water was being dispersed under his 
driveway. And this had led to the sand/screed beneath being washed away and the bricks 
falling through. He contacted Admiral to make a claim for the damage to his driveway under 
his buildings insurance policy. Admiral arranged for the damage to be inspected.
Mr Rs claim was declined by Admiral. He complained to them and they arranged for a 
surveyor to visit. Mr R said the surveyor hadnt turned up for the arranged appointment, and 
when he did visit was dismissive when Mr R was explaining what he thought was the cause 
of the damage. The surveyor agreed with the reasons the claim was declined - wear and 
tear. Mr R remained unhappy about his claim being declined and complained further to 
Admiral. 
Admiral said theyd declined Mr Rs claim as the damage was the effect of wear and tear. 
They said there was a drainage channel under the driveway that they said should capture 
any water from the neighbours downpipe. Admiral said there was evidence of heavy tread 
over the area and the driveway was in a poor condition. They also said for the damage to be 
covered it would need to have been caused by an insured peril in his policy. It noted that in 
this instance the damage wasnt caused by any of the insured perils the policy provided 
cover for. Admiral didnt agree that their surveyor had been dismissive and said his notes 
showed while a morning appointment had been arranged the surveyor on realising, he was 
going to be late said hed called Mr R. 
Mr R wasnt happy with Admirals response. He felt the damage to part of his driveway 
should be covered. Mr R referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator considered Mr Rs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said
that Mr Rs policy only provided cover for damage caused by certain perils  and because
the damage in this instance wasnt covered, Admiral had acted fairly in declining his claim.
Mr R didnt agree. He reiterated that he felt Admirals decision to decline his claim was 
unfair. He accepted it was an older driveway and showed a depression from the weight of 
the vehicle. But he disputed this was the cause of the collapse, as the bricks had fallen 
through because of the loss of the sand/screed beneath. He also said he couldnt have 
known what effect the water from his neighbours downpipe was causing to the ground 
beneath his driveway. He said that damage caused should be covered under his policy 
under accidental damage. And he noted that Admiral had declined his claim based on 
inaccuracies as they didnt look at his neighbours downpipe. He asked for an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so. Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr R said he didnt get a phone call from the surveyor to advise of the delay in their 
appointment. But the surveyor has said he did call to rearrange. And although Mr R is certain 
he didnt get a call he understands I cant know for sure what happened. What remains in 
dispute, and the reason why Mr R has asked for an ombudsman decision is the decline of 
his insurance claim for his damaged driveway.
Ive reviewed Mr Rs policy documents to see what cover his policy provides. As is common
in many residential buildings insurance policies Mr Rs policy provides cover for damage to
his property caused by certain events. These are listed in the policy, and include damage
caused by events such as theft, fire, storm, flood, water escape, subsidence, heave or 
landslip. The policy also lists what isnt covered and under the section for water escape this 
includes: 
By subsidence, heave or landslip resulting from the escaping water
And
water escaping from external pipes that are above ground
Mr R is adamant the collapse of his driveway is because the sand/screed beneath had gone 
because of the escape of water from his neighbours downpipe. And this had caused the 
brickwork to collapse. But given the above I dont think this would be covered under the 
policy. 
Ive also considered the policy under the section for subsidence or heave or landslip, and 
this shows the policy doesnt cover:
gardens, lawns, patios, terraces, tennis courts, outdoor swimming pools, hot tubs, walls, 
fences, gates, drives, service tanks, drains, septic tanks, pipes, cables and central-heating 
oil tanks, unless your home is damaged as well
So, subsidence damage to  Mr Rs driveway would only be covered if there had also been 
subsidence damage to his home at the same time. And I havent seen any evidence that this 
had happened.
Mr R thinks the damage  should be covered under the policys accidental damage. The 
policy defines accidental damage as a  Sudden, unexpected and visible loss, or damage 
which has not been caused wilfully or deliberately.
Mr R said he wouldnt have known what was happening beneath his driveway until the 
sudden collapse of the brickwork, caused he says by the disappearance of the sand/screed. 
But I consider there to be a difference between damage appearing suddenly and its cause 
being sudden. I can understand Mr Rs argument that the damage appeared suddenly, but 
the terms of the policy require the damage to be caused suddenly. And I think the cause if it was from an escape of water would have happened over a period of time as would the 
depression of the brickwork caused by the weight of the vehicle driving across it therefore - 
gradual. And this wouldnt be covered under Mr Rs policy as under general exceptions it 
says:
(10) Any loss or damage thats caused gradually including wear and tear
Admiral said Mr Rs claim isnt covered because none of the events in the policy apply. They 
also say they havent seen any evidence that the sand/screed was caused by Mr Rs 
neighbours down pipe. And that its more likely to be wear and tear caused by the weight of 
the vehicle driven across it.
Ive thought about whether Admirals decision to decline this claim is reasonable. And I think 
it is. I havent seen any evidence to show the damage to Mr Rs driveway was because of 
one of the insured events that was covered in his policy. 
Mr R has explained hes concerned Admiral didnt investigate the matter further and didnt 
consider the neighbours downpipe in their assessment. But as outlined above I dont think 
Admiral has declined Mr Rs claim unfairly as this wouldnt be covered under his policy. So 
again, I cant say Admiral has applied the exceptions in the policy unfairly.
I know Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont think Admiral has acted 
unfairly and unreasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman