DRN-4514175
The complaint
Ms V complains Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) is holding her liable for the debt on a loan she 
says she was tricked into by scammers. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in December 2021 a loan was taken out with Bamboo in Ms Vs 
name for £2,500. Ms V subsequently got in touch with Bamboo to let it know shed been 
tricked into the loan by scammers. She said the scammers tricked her into thinking they 
could help her recover crypto she thought shed previously lost, if she put more money in; 
and as she didnt have more money to put in, the scammers persuaded her to take out the 
Bamboo loan for this purpose, in circumstances where she was tricked into thinking it wasnt 
a proper loan but just part of the process to get her crypto back. Bamboo investigated 
things and ultimately couldnt reach agreement with Ms V, so she referred her complaint 
about Bamboo to us. As our Investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
I sent Ms V and Bamboo my provisional decision last month explaining what I was minded to 
conclude and why. Now the parties have had opportunity to comment further, Im now ready 
to explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons. Ive explained why again below.  
My first consideration is: did Ms V enter into this loan agreement, or was it done without her 
knowledge and/or consent? And in this case, Im satisfied that Ms V both knew about the 
loan and consented to it, so she did enter into the loan agreement. 
Ive taken on board what Ms V has said about her thinking it wasnt a proper loan but just 
part of the process to get her crypto back. But Ms V understood Bamboo was a lender, and 
the scammers led her to believe they were affiliated with Bamboo. I dont think what Ms V 
has said is the same thing as her not understanding she was taking out a loan with Bamboo, 
even if she thought it would just be a formality. So Im satisfied I cant fairly say Ms V didnt 
enter into the loan agreement. 
In response to our Investigators assessment, Ms Vs representative has said Bamboo is 
targeted by fraudsters and that Bamboo appears to be aware of a fraud trend of remote 
access software being used to take out loans. Ms Vs representative has asked if Bamboo 
had software in place to identify the use of remote access software during Ms Vs 
application. But there was no requirement I am aware of for Bamboo to have such a specific 
system in place and I dont think it was unreasonable in this case that Bamboo did not have 
this capability. Instead, Im satisfied Bamboo took reasonable steps to verify Ms Vs 
application was genuine. Whats more, in this case Im satisfied, as Ive said above, that 
Ms V was aware of the loan. And Bamboo has said it sent an email to Ms V before the loan 
was approved which pointed out scam warning signs such as remote access software. So, in 
this case, I dont think Bamboo can reasonably be blamed for what happened.  
Ms Vs representative has also raised the issue of alleged unaffordable lending. For clarity, 
our usual approach on unaffordable lending is that interest and charges should be removed 
but the consumer should still pay back the principal amount of the loan they had the benefit 
from. But here, I dont think the loan was irresponsibly lent. Ms V presented in the application 
as employed full-time with the same employer for 25 to 30 months, earning a net monthly 
salary of £1,527, with monthly rent, essential and other expenses totalling £940. 
I understand Bamboo took steps to verify the stated income; it considered variations of 
typical expenses; and Ms Vs credit report didnt flag concern. Given the amount being 
borrowed and how things lined up, I think these were reasonable and proportionate checks 
on Bamboos part. 
Also, its my understanding that Ms V has already been compensated by Starling (through a 
separate case) regarding the loss of the loan funds. This is because on 9 December 2021 
the loan funds of £2,500 were paid first to Ms Vs Halifax account; then from there to Ms Vs 
Starling account; and then from there to the scammers. And Ms V brought a complaint to us 
about Starling, the outcome of which included that Starling would refund Ms V half of her 
loss plus interest. Only half was refunded because it was considered Ms V should share 
equal responsibility for the loss given her actions. In circumstances like this, where Bamboo 
granted the loan in good faith, and Ms V then paid those funds to the scammers, but has 
since received the appropriate amount of funds back from Starling that our Ombudsman in 
that case thought fair to balance responsibility for the loss of the money, I dont think I can 
fairly tell Bamboo, in this case, that it cant pursue Ms V under the loan agreement for the 
outstanding amount. Ms V has already received half the loan amount back with interest from 
Starling (which she could use to repay part of the loan). It also looks like Ms V has already 
repaid some of the loan, so Im satisfied things are affordable from here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman