DRN-2219961
The complaint
 Ms B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI).
AXA France IARD has taken responsibility for the sale.
What happened
 Ms B took out a store card with PPI in 1999.
The policy covered Ms B if she was too ill to work or had an accident, or if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint because I dont think AXA gave Ms B clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because Ms B has told us she was unemployed at the 
time she applied for her card and PPI.
AXA has said Ms B gave details of her employer on the application form when she applied 
for her card. Ms B says the employment details were that of her husband and that she 
wasnt working.
Ive thought about what AXA has said alongside what Ms B has told us. Ive also looked at a 
copy of the application form provided by AXA. The application form asks:
Are you or your partner in permanent paid employment?
The next statement asks for the following information:
Your employers name and address or that of your partners employer if you have no taxable 
income of your own.
Considering the wording of the application form I think its likely Ms B would have entered 
her partners details if she wasnt working. I also dont think its unreasonable that Ms B isnt 
able to show she was unemployed at the time now.
 
I think this would have mattered to Ms B as she wasnt eligible for the policy as an 
unemployed person. So, I think Ms B has lost out because of what AXA did wrong.
  
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
How it does this will depend on whether Ms Bs store card account is still active or has been
closed. Ive noted that the PPI policy is already cancelled.
If Ms Bs account is still active:
A. AXA should find out how much Ms B would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms B owes and what she would
have owed.
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when AXA works out what Ms B would have owed each month without PPI 
Ms B paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest
on the extra Ms B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms B
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a
year.
C. AXA should tell Ms B what its done to work out A and B.
If Ms Bs account has been closed:
A. AXA should find out how much Ms B would have owed when she closed her store card
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms B owed when she closed her
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms B would have owed
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms B would have owed each month without PPI  Ms B
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the
extra Ms B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms B
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a
year.D. AXA should tell Ms B what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Ms B that relates to this PPI
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA France IARD to put things right by doing what Ive 
said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman