DRN-2972025
The complaint
Miss G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly changed the date of a default on her 
credit file.
What happened
Miss G says a default was registered on her credit file by HSBC in October 2014. She says 
she then found out the default date had been changed to March 2015 which was two months 
after the account closed. Miss G says she complained to HSBC and it sent her a cheque for 
£100 but hasnt explained why the date was changed. She says this date change could have 
affected her mortgage application and would like compensation for what took place.
HSBC says it correctly registered a default on Miss Gs credit file in 2014. It says it has no 
record of changing that date and has carried out checks, but the default no longer remains 
on Miss Gs credit file. HSBC says the £100 compensation was for a different issue having 
reviewed the letters it sent Miss G in 2014.
Miss G brought the complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought there was no way of knowing what the default date was as it is no longer on Miss 
Gs credit file. And thought HSBC had carried out searches and checks to try and find out if a 
mistake had been made but without success. The investigator didnt think there was any 
evidence of the default date and didnt think there was any impact on Miss G in any event.
Miss G doesnt accept that view and has provided an e-mail from one Credit Reference 
Agency (CRA) which says HSBC must have removed details of the default as it no longer 
appears on the credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss G will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no actual evidence from any CRA about the date the default was registered and if it 
was changed. I dont think that is surprising as taking either date into account both are over 
six years ago and so will no longer appear on Miss Gs credit file. So, I cant be sure what 
has taken place here and if there was a mistake. I also make clear to Miss G that even if the 
date had changed then I have not seen any evidence that was caused by anything HSBC 
did.
Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly tried to find out what may have taken place but due to the 
passage of time is unable to obtain any details from the CRAs or from its own reporting 
information. I appreciate Miss G will be frustrated but I am unsure why she didnt take for 
example a screen shot of the information she says was incorrect.
In any event I cant see, even if a mistake has taken place, what impact that would have had 
on Miss G. I appreciate she says a mortgage application may have been affected but even if 
I thought HSBC had made a mistake, I could only consider the actual impact. There is no 
dispute that the default is no longer on Miss Gs credit file and I dont think the e-mail she 
has provided can shed light on whats taken place. I am sure Miss G appreciates that its 
possible that a mistake may have been made by a CRA
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly tried to find out what may have happened, and I 
cant require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint. Im satisfied the 
compensation payment of £100 was for an unrelated matter about letters sent some time 
ago and about the timing of those letters. Im also satisfied that the default was correctly 
registered for a debt that HSBC later wrote off.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman