DRN-4232924
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a credit card Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) 
provided to him. He says the credit card was irresponsibly provided to him as it was 
unaffordable.
Background
Barclaycard provided Mr M with a credit card with an initial limit of £800 in April 2017. Mr M 
wasnt provided with any credit limit increases. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and Barclaycard had told us. And he thought 
Barclaycard hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly in relation to providing the 
credit card. So he didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Barclaycard needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Barclaycard needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether         
Mr M could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Barclaycard says it agreed to Mr Ms application after it obtained information on his income 
and carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Mr M would be 
able to make the low monthly repayments due for this credit card. On the other hand Mr M 
says that he was already struggling and shouldnt have been provided with this credit card.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Whats important to note is that Mr M was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that Barclaycard was required to understand whether a credit limit of 
£800 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than in one go. A credit limit 
of £800 required relatively small monthly payments in order to clear the full amount owed 
within a reasonable period of time. 
Furthermore, Ive seen records of the information Barclaycard obtained from Mr M about his 
income and that was on the credit search carried out. And this information doesnt indicate to 
me that Barclaycard ought to have realised that Mr M didnt have the funds to make the low 
monthly payment that would be required for this credit card. 
I can see that Mr Ms position did worsen and I can see the reason for this. But I think that it 
is fair to say that this was after the credit card had already been provided. And it wouldnt be 
fair and reasonable for me to use hindsight here, or say that Barclaycard should have known 
this would happen. This is especially as the available information indicates Mr M could repay 
what he would owe at the time the lending decision was made and proportionate checks 
simply wouldnt have uncovered what is was that would lead to Mr Ms difficulties. 
So overall while I can understand Mr Ms sentiments, I dont think that Barclaycard treated 
Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when providing Mr M with his credit card. And Im not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope 
hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have 
been listened to.
Ive seen that Barclaycard has made an offer of £50 in light of administrative errors. As Im 
not upholding Mr Ms complaint, I leave it to him to decide whether he wishes to get in touch 
with Barclays to accept this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman