DRN-4248896
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has been charging 
him too much for a critical illness policy which provides cover for cancer (the policy).
What happened
Mr L took out the policy in 2013 and pays a monthly premium for it. In 2022, because Mr L 
was going to reach a certain age resulting him moving into a different age bracket, AIG 
notified him that his monthly premium would be increasing. He was quoted around £151 per 
month for the policy. 
Mr L discovered that AIG had launched another cancer insurance policy to the market which 
was considerably cheaper than the policy hed had the benefit of for many years. He 
complained to AIG. 
In its final response letter dated November 2022, AIG pointed to differences between the two 
policies. However, it said that it had recently completed a portfolio assessment and its view 
of the future performance of the portfolio had improved. It said it would be passing the 
benefit on to policyholders through lower premiums. 
As a result, it said Mr Ls monthly premiums would be reducing from around £151 per month 
to around £100 per month. As the higher premium amount of around £151 was going to be 
collected shortly, AIG said it would credit £100 to Mr Ls bank account to cover the 
overpayment of around £51 and the remainder of the payment to compensate him for the 
inconvenience and time that hed spent in respect of this matter. 
After Mr L responded to the final response letter, and because of possible delays amending 
the premiums to be collected between December 2022 and February 2023, AIG offered to 
extend the refund of the difference in premiums to three months  totalling around £155. It 
also offered to increase compensation to £150 to take into account the additional length of 
time it had taken to provide a response to Mr L. 
However, AIG said it was unable to reduce the monthly premium to below around £100 for 
the policy. Unhappy with the reply, Mr L complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt think AIG needed to do anything 
more. Mr L disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh 
and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AIG has an obligation to treat customers fairly.
I know Mr L will be very disappointed, but the reasons set out below, Im satisfied that the 
offer made by AIG to settle his complaint is fair and reasonable. 
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to interfere with an insurers 
commercial decision as to how it chooses to assess risk or the premiums it sets to 
cover a certain risk. But our Service can consider whether an insurer has acted fairly 
and reasonably when calculating the insurance premium for individual customers.
Mr L has had the benefit of the policy since 2013. Having considered the pricing 
guide provided by AIG, Im satisfied that for the age bracket he was in for the policy 
year before 2022 and the age bracket he was moving to in 2022, the premium was 
correct and in line with the pricing guide. Without any evidence to the contrary, I think 
its likely that other policyholders in the same age brackets as Mr L wouldve been 
charged the same premiums. 
Mr L would like to see the pricing information AIG seeks to rely on. And can I 
understand why he would want to. But the Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute 
Resolution: Complaints Sourcebook (DISP)  which sets out how complaints should 
be handled by the Financial Ombudsman Service  says at DISP 3.5.9 (2) and 3.5.10 
that our Service can accept certain information in confidence. Im satisfied that the 
information AIG has provided is genuinely commercially sensitive and can be 
accepted and considered by our Service in confidence. 
AIG accepts that it did introduce a new type of critical illness insurance policy to the 
market in or around 2021/2022  providing cancer care. Given Mr Ls age, the 
monthly premium would range from just over £5 for silver cover to around £10 per 
month for platinum cover under the new policy. Thats considerably less than Mr L 
was paying for the policy he had. 
However, Im satisfied the policies dont offer like for like cover and there are some 
important differences. For example, the policy launched in 2021/2022 pays out 
£20,000 on diagnosis of a primary cancer for silver cover and £40,000 for platinum 
cover. Whereas Mr Ls policy provides a benefit of £100,000. So, its understandable 
that there would be a price differential between the two policies. And because Mr Ls 
policy offers five times benefit of the silver policy launched in 2021/2022, it doesnt 
follow that the cost should only be five times the cost of the silver policy launched in 
2021/2022. The cost to AIG of a claim being made under Mr Ls policy is significantly 
more than the silver policy even though the risk of a claim being made isnt reduced. 
Mr L was aware of the price he was paying for his policy. It was for him to decide 
whether the policy continued to meet his needs. And he was free to cancel it if it 
didnt. AIG has also provided templates of letters it says wouldve been sent to Mr L 
in 2020 and 2022. They reflect that the policyholder was told that they might be able 
to find alternative cancer insurance elsewhere, at a better price. I dont know whether 
Mr L received these letters. But, even if he didnt, unless asked by him (which Ive 
seen no evidence of), I dont think AIG was under any requirement to proactively 
make Mr L aware about other policies it had available or would be launching for 
cancer care which were cheaper, but had different benefits.
AIG has offered Mr L £305 in total to reimburse him for the difference in premiums 
paid for three months as well as to compensate him for some distress and 
inconvenience caused by this. I think thats reasonable as it fairly reflects his financial 
losses as well as the trouble and upset caused.  Putting things right
I understand AIGs offer of £305 to settle the complaint wasnt accepted by Mr L so hasnt 
been paid. That being the case, I direct AIG to pay Mr L £305 compensation its already 
offered to pay.
My final decision
American International Group UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £305 to Mr L to 
settle the complaint. I think thats fair in all the circumstances. 
My decision is that American International Group UK Limited should pay £305 to Mr L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman