DRN-3623022
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly recorded arrears on his credit files. 
What happened
Mr H took out a mortgage with HSBC in May 2021. He wanted to make regular 
overpayments. He cancelled the direct debit instruction for his monthly payments and made 
weekly payments instead. Because HSBC didnt receive the contractual monthly payment on 
the due date, it recorded arrears on Mr Hs credit file.
Mr H says this meant he couldnt take out new deals for his utilities or a car loan. 
Our investigator said the terms of Mr Hs mortgage require him to make a monthly payment 
by direct debit. As HSBC didnt receive the contractual monthly payment when it was due, it 
hadnt made an error when it recorded arrears. HSBC agreed to remove the adverse data. It 
paid £150 for poor service, including a delay in updating Mr Hs credit file. Our investigator 
said this was fair.
Mr H didnt agree. He said regardless of the mortgage terms and conditions, HSBC should 
take some of the blame. He said other lenders allow weekly payments. Mr H said HSBC 
should have contacted him about the arrears within 15 days (as required by the regulator) 
and told him the direct debit was mandatory. He said it was always clear his main concern 
was his credit file. Mr H said the reporting of arrears was unfair, caused him stress and 
wasted his time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC sent a mortgage offer to Mr H in March 2021. This said You must maintain the 
contractual monthly payments to this Loan for the duration of the Loan and use a direct 
debit, from a current account held with a UK based bank, to make the payments. The 
mortgage offer set out the contractual monthly payment. Mr H agreed to make monthly 
payments on the 30th of each month.
HSBC wrote to Mr H in May 2021, after the mortgage completed. It confirmed the direct 
debit. It referred him to information about making overpayments in the terms and conditions. 
And it gave him a number to call if he wanted to set up overpayments.
Mr H made the first payment on 30 June 2021, in accordance with the mortgage terms. He 
then cancelled the direct debit and arranged to make weekly payments from July 2021. 
HSBC wrote to Mr H in early July 2021 about the cancelled direct debit. Mr H isnt sure he 
received the letter. He did of course know hed cancelled the direct debit.
On 30 July 2021, HSBC received £70 into the mortgage account instead of the contractual 
monthly payment of about £225. As HSBC didnt receive the contractual monthly payment in 
full on the due date, it recorded this with the credit reference agencies. The same thing 
happened in August 2021.
I dont think HSBC made an error when it recorded arrears on Mr Hs credit files. It didnt 
receive the contractual monthly payment on the due date. This was because Mr H had 
cancelled his direct debit. It wasnt due to an error by HSBC.
HSBC wrote to Mr H on 1 September 2021 saying hed fallen behind with his monthly 
payments. Mr H contacted HSBC in early September 2021. 
HSBC accepts it made errors when Mr H contacted in September 2021. It didnt explain 
clearly how payments made before the due date would be applied. It says it shouldnt have 
told him it would remove the missed payments from his credit file, as these were correctly 
recorded. It paid £100 for the upset this caused. 
Having told Mr H it would arrange for the adverse data to be removed from his credit files, 
HSBC agreed it would do this. However, there was a delay and Mr H contacted HSBC again 
in early November 2021. HSBC paid £50 for the additional upset and inconvenience this 
caused.
Mr H doesnt feel this is a fair outcome. Mr H says HSBC should have told him sooner about 
the problem, so he could put it right. Mr H says he decided not to apply for new utilities deals 
or credit until the matter was sorted out.
I dont think HSBC made an error in not contacting Mr H sooner. Mr H had made a payment 
of £70 on the due date, so he wasnt a full month in arrears at the end of July 2021. Mr H 
made weekly payments in August 2021 which cleared the arrears before the point at which 
HSBC would contact him was reached. As HSBC didnt receive any payment on 30 August 
2021 its system recorded Mr Hs account as being a month in arrears and it wrote to him. I 
dont think HSBC was unfair in the way it contacted Mr H.
Id also point out that HSBC had given Mr H information about making payments (on a 
monthly basis and by direct debit) in the mortgage offer and the letter sent in May 2021. If 
Mr H wanted to change the way he made payments, he could have first contacted HSBC.
Mr H wasnt in financial difficulties, and he didnt intend to pay less than was due. In fact, he 
wanted to overpay each month. I understand why he feels the adverse data isnt a fair 
reflection of his circumstances. I can see that this has caused Mr H stress and 
inconvenience. But the problems here werent caused by an error by HSBC. The problems 
resulted from Mr H cancelling his direct debit and making payments on a different basis. 
Its unfortunate there was a delay, but HSBC has removed the adverse data which Mr H 
says was his main concern. I think the £150 paid by HSBC is fair and reasonable 
compensation for any unclear information given to Mr H in September 2021, and the delay in 
updating his credit file. I think this is a fair outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I think the steps taken and 
compensation paid by HSBC UK Bank Plc are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman