DRN-3829645
The complaint
Mr J, through his representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited lent to him when 
he could not afford it. 
What happened
Using information from Everyday Lending, here is a loan table of the approved loans. It 
appears that in October 2018 a loan for the same amount as loan 2 was applied for but does 
not appear to have been proceed with. 
Loan Date 
approvedAmount Monthly 
repayment 
and number Total 
repayableDate of last 
payment
1 23 January 
2017£6,500 £307.56 x 48 £14,762.88 November 
2018
2 20 
November 
2018£8,500 which was used 
to repay loan 1 and 
release fresh funds£334.61 x 48 £16,061.28 April 2022
After Mr J had complained, Everyday Lending responded with its final response letter (FRL) 
in which it gave reasons why it did not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our adjudicators 
looked at all the details and documents Everyday Lending had sent to us. He thought that 
neither of the loans should have been approved for Mr J. 
Everyday Lending disagreed and stated these points which I have summarised:
Mr Js mortgage cost was factored into the income and expenditure assessment 
(I&E) it carried out before loan 1 
He lived with parents and paid no rent to them
At loan 2 he no longer paid a mortgage
Mr Js internal score and dmi were very similar to loan 1 
There were no defaults since May 2016
No returns or gambling transactions were visible on Mr Js bank statements
The abbreviation dmi may refer to disposable monthly income. We have received no 
details of the internal score. The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending , each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mr J would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr J would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending  to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Js ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending  had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had 
to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr J undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending  to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr J. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Js complaint. Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint for the 
same reasons as those given by our adjudicator.
For loan 1, Everyday Lending has said it obtained and reviewed Mr Js bank statements for 
two months and a credit search before lending to Mr J. It also checked where he worked. 
Everyday Lending said it used statistical data and figures to calculate the living expense 
element of affordability. This calculation takes into consideration the customers income, 
region, household composition and residential status. They also said they applied a buffer to the living expenses amount to accommodate any unexpected minor changes in the 
customers circumstances or one-off additional expenses. It said its affordability calculation 
showed that Mr J would have a monthly disposable income of £105 after taking into account 
his new Everyday Loan monthly repayments. 
On Everyday Lendings own figures and calculations in its I&E assessment, Mr J was 
already paying a significant proportion of his income to other credit commitments (including 
his mortgage). And its own figures, after the debt consolidation and factoring in the new 
loan 1 repayments, would have left Mr J with a low left over income of around £105. 
When Mr J came back for loan 2 (having turned down a loan of a similar level a month 
earlier in October 2018) his credit commitments had increased a great deal and Everyday 
Lending knew this as it had obtained a credit search for November 2018 which were easily 
able to be compared with the credit search obtained for loan 1. 
And the credit commitments for Mr J at the time he was applying to consolidate loan 1 and 
take a further amount of fresh funds, already was a high proportion of his monthly income. 
And its own figures, after the debt consolidation and factoring in the new loan 2 repayments, 
would have left Mr J with a low left over income of around £99.
Considering both agreements were to commit Mr J for 48 months (four years) then I think 
that proceeding on the figures provided by Everyday Lending to defend the complaint is not 
persuasive. Both loans did not improve Mr Js cash flow position much and placed him into 
further debt with very little margin for any additional costs. Mr J had separated from his wife, 
was paying the mortgage and/or maintenance payments to her regularly. And these were 
significant and clearly long term commitments. 
His large increase on his overall debt from around £6,000 (loan and revolving credit) in 
January 2017 to over £16,600 (loan and revolving credit) in November 2018 was too big a 
change to ignore. And £105 and £99 respectively each month (even allowing for the buffer 
Everyday Lending said it factored in) was too low. And Mr Js credit commitments were a 
high proportion of his income for loans 1 and 2. 
I uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Putting things right
It seems from records Ive seen that Mr J settled the account in April 2022. To put things 
right Everyday Lending should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans,
treat any payments made by Mr J in respect of this loan as payments towards the capital 
sums received by Mr J,
If Mr J has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to him 
with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Lending should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mr J.
remove any adverse payment information about these loans from Mr Js credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending  to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending  must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint. I direct that Everyday Lending Limited 
should do as I have set out in the putting things right part of the decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman