DRN-3707860
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Portal Financial Services LLP gave her unsuitable advice to 
transfer her personal pension to a SIPP (Self Invested Personal Pension).
What happened
Miss Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of it 
to both parties in August 2022. The background and circumstances to the complaint were 
set out in that assessment. But in summary, Miss C was advised to transfer (technically 
known as a switch) her pension in December 2013. Portal had completed a fact-find 
recording Miss Cs circumstances and objectives at the time. This said Miss C was in 
excellent health, single, self-employed, and she had a personal pension plan valued at 
£14,577. She was contributing £47.29 per month to it.
It was recorded that Miss Cs existing pension plan had guarantees; one fund had a 
guaranteed growth rate of 4%, and another was guaranteed never to fall below 0% growth. 
The suitability report said the fund had averaged 2.79% growth over the previous five years 
(which I think was the combined performance of the two funds). It was noted that Miss C was 
happy to forgo the guarantees in return for greater returns.
The suitability report said Miss Cs objectives were:
To have the opportunity to take tax-free cash at age 55, and then take an income at 
her desired retirement age
Performance
Greater fund choice
Death benefits
Begin making contributions of £37.73 (net)
Miss Cs risk profile was recorded as balanced. 
Portal recommended Miss C transfer her pension to a SIPP and open a separate 
stakeholder pension to make regular contributions of £37.73 per month to it.
The investments recommended for the SIPP included:
Lakeview UK Investments PLC - 9.50% (£1,385)
Marbella Resort and Spa PLC - 12.00% (£1,749)
Real Estate Investments USA PLC - 13.00% (£1,895)
Motion Picture Global Investments PLC - 6.00% (875)
Strategic Residential Developments PLC - 9.50% (£1,385)
The Lakeview investment was a property development in Cornwall holiday villas. This was a
five-year bond with an annual return of 11%. Real Estate Investments financed the
purchase and refurbishing of property bought from banks, and paid an annual return of 15%.
Marbella Resort and Spa was also a fixed interest bond that ran for seven years with a fixed
interest payment of 7%. Funds were being used to develop a resort in Marbella. The Motion
Picture Global Investments fund was concerned with financing films and paid 30% interest in
year 3 and 10% thereafter. 
A warning highlighted liquidity issues, said:
Please note that while the bonds invested in via the [pension platform] can be considered
relatively illiquid investments they do produce returns that can be used to meet your income
requirements and as such are considered suitable by Portal Financial.
The investigator said Portal charged an upfront fee of 5% for its advice. There was also a 
1% charge per year for ongoing advice, and the SIPP provider charged 0.5%
Miss C accepted the advice, and £14,840 was transferred to the SIPP in January 2014. 
In 2019 Miss C was notified that some funds were illiquid. Miss C complained to Portal 
through a representative in 2021. Portal said it thought the complaint hadnt been made 
within the relevant time limits. 
Our investigator thought the complaint had been referred within time. He said the relevant 
rules setting out our jurisdiction were outlined in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook 
under DISP Rule 2.8. He said although the 2021 complaint had been made to the firm more 
than six years after the event complained about (the advice given to Miss C to transfer in 
December 2013), he thought it had been made within three years of Miss C becoming aware 
that she had cause to complain. 
The investigator said the value of the pension in July 2020  the year prior to Miss C making 
her complaint - was £16,800. He said the value of the illiquid investment funds had the same 
or very similar values as when Miss C had originally invested in them. And although Miss C 
had been alerted that some of the funds were illiquid in 2019, Miss C had complained in 
2021 - so this was within the three-year period. 
The investigator said he hadnt seen anything to suggest that Miss C should have become 
aware that the advice shed been given was unsuitable more than three years before she 
complained to the firm. So he didnt think that the complaint was brought too late.
The investigator went onto consider whether it was in Miss Cs best interests to transfer her 
pension to the SIPP, and if so, whether the investments were suitable.
The investigator noted the reasons why Portal recommended the transfer were so Miss C 
could benefit from increased flexibility and draw an income at a later date to taking her tax-
free cash. However the investigator said looking at the fact-find, he could see no obvious 
reason as to why Miss C needed the extra flexibility of drawing her tax-free cash before her 
pension. He said there was nothing to say that she needed the money in stages,. And if this 
need did arise there was nothing to stop her transferring at that time. The investigator 
thought that although the flexibility was a useful feature, it wasnt a reason to transfer at that 
time. 
The investigator said costs was an important consideration. He referred to the regulators 
2014 report (the FSA at the time), which highlighting good and poor practice in the area of 
pension switches. The investigator said this was a restatement of existing principles, and so 
it would have still applied here.
The review noted the most common causes of poor practice in pension switching:A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved
assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was for investment flexibility,
but this was not likely to be used; the reason was fund performance, but there was no
evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was flexibility of a drawdown
option, but there was no evidence that this option was needed).
The investigator said the transfer (switch) to the new plan added significant extra charges to 
the transferred pension, with a 5% initial charge, product fees, and ongoing advice fees. 
He said Miss Cs original personal pension was invested in a with profits fund. It had no 
explicit charges, though in these cases usually a guide of 1% was given. The investigator 
said looking at the costs, he thought it was fair to say the new pension was more expensive 
than the original. The investigator said this suggested it wasnt in Miss Cs best interests to 
transfer, as any new investment in the SIPP would have to outperform the original 
investment funds to achieve the same result.
The investigator noted Portal had said the transfer would allow Miss C to make regular 
contributions. However she didnt require a new plan to do that; she was already making 
contributions to her old plan. And for death benefits, Miss C could have completed an 
expression of wish form for the original pension provider to ensure that the benefits were 
paid in accordance with her wishes if she passed away.
The investigator said he thought the transfer had been completed merely to facilitate the 
investments which would not have been available through the original pension. And he didnt 
think the investment recommendation was suitable. 
He said the majority of the funds recommended were highly specialised in new, untested 
growth areas. The property investments were poorly diversified, and each had a significant 
chance of complete failure if a resort/single development was involved. He said the Motion 
Picture investment was highly speculative given that so much of its success was dependent 
upon a few projects in a niche industry.
The investigator said he thought Portal understood the high-risk nature of these investments 
at the time. The suitability report warned that the investments were illiquid, as once invested 
in a project of a long-term nature it would be difficult for Miss C to withdraw her funds. Portal 
had said that the income payments provided by the investments negated this. However the 
investigator said it became a problem if the income payments stopped, which they did.
The investigator said he thought Portal had enough information at the time it gave advice to 
know that the investments were unsuitable for Miss Cs circumstances.
The investigator said he thought Miss C was an inexperienced investor with a modest 
income, and her existing pension represented her entire retirement savings. He said the 
with-profits funds had some valuable guarantees in the form of guaranteed growth rates 
which were given up.
The investigator said the funds the SIPP had been invested into as outlined above were all 
inappropriate for someone with Miss Cs risk profile. However, that there was no justification 
for Miss C to transfer in the first instance in any event. So the investigator thought Miss Cs 
complaint should be upheld.
The investigator asked Portal to let him know if it agreed with his assessment by 13 
September 2022. He also sent a copy of it to Miss Cs representative.
We didnt receive a response from Portal.Miss Cs representative said she was happy with the assessment.
The investigator contacted both parties explaining that as he hadnt received a response 
from Portal he would refer the complaint to an ombudsman to make a decision. 
No further evidence or arguments were provided by either party. The complaint was 
therefore passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Our jurisdiction is open to consideration until a final determination has been made. Ive 
therefore firstly considered whether the complaint has been referred to us in time. For the 
reasons set out by the investigator, Im satisfied Miss Cs complaint was referred to us within 
the relevant time limits. Although it was referred outside of the six-year time limit, Ive seen 
no persuasive evidence that Miss C was aware or ought reasonably to have become aware 
that she had cause for complaint more than three years before she complained to the firm in 
2021. So Im satisfied this is a complaint we can consider.
  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator that the complaint 
should be upheld, and largely for the same reasons.
The fact-find completed at the time that the advice was given recorded that Miss Cs salary 
was £10,000, and that her outgoings each month equalled her income. This was consistent 
with what was said in the suitability report which confirmed Miss C had minimal disposable 
income per month. Miss C had a repayment mortgage, and no savings or investments were 
recorded on the fact-find or mentioned in the suitability report. 
The suitability report referred to Capacity for Loss saying, amongst other things:
it is essential that we also consider your Capacity for Loss which is described as your 
capacity to take risk and the potential implications of any investment losses.
In my view, given Miss Cs circumstances, she had very limited capacity for loss. Yet the 
investments she was recommended to make following the transfer presented significant 
investment risk to her pension. I dont think Miss C had the capacity to accept the significant 
risks the funds recommended were exposed to, and the potential losses that could result 
from those risks. In my view the degree of investment risk was clearly greater than Miss C 
had the capacity to accept. 
There were significant costs involved in the transfer. And for the reasons outlined by the 
investigator, I think the potential benefits of a transfer were limited in Miss Cs 
circumstances, and didnt outweigh both the additional costs of transferring as well the loss 
of the guarantees provided by the existing plan. 
The fact-find recorded that Miss C wanted To improve average yearly growth but then said 
Stable growth preferred over volatility. Part of her existing plan had a 4% guaranteed 
growth rate. And the other part a guarantee not to fall below 0% growth. If Miss C was 
unhappy with the current performance but at the same time wanted stable growth, she could 
have explored switching the part of the plan not subject to the 4% guaranteed rate with the 
exiting provider, and retaining the part of the plan with the 4% guaranteed growth. So for the reasons outlined above and by the investigator, in my view Portal failed in its 
regulatory obligations to ensure the suitability of its advice to Miss C, and therefore I think 
her complaint should succeed.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Miss C as close as possible 
to the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I think Miss C would have remained with her previous provider. And I think the pension plan 
to receive regular contributions was only setup because the transfer took place. Therefore 
this should be included in any redress calculation, with the calculation being that the regular 
contributions should have been paid into the original plan.
What should Portal Financial Services LLP do?
To compensate Miss C fairly Portal Financial Services LLP should:
Compare the performance of Miss C's SIPP and stakeholder plan with the notional 
value if Miss C had remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater 
than the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater 
than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
The calculation should take into account the value of the regular contributions made 
to the new stakeholder plan, against what they would have been worth had they been 
paid to the original pension plan and invested in the same way.
Portal Financial Services LLP should also pay any interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into Miss Cs pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. Its payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Portal shouldnt pay the compensation 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Miss C's pension plan it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Miss Cs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. I think its likely that Miss C will be 
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction should equal 
20%. However, if Miss C would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 15%. 
In addition, Portal Financial Services LLP should pay Miss C £500 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the loss of a significant part of her pension and the 
disruption to her retirement plans.
Portal should also provide details of the calculation to Miss C in a clear, simple 
format.Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal considers it is required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss C 
how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if Miss C asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
The start date of the calculation should be the date of transfer. The end date should be the 
date of this final decision. Interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum should be added to 
any loss calculated, from the date of this decision to the date of settlement, if settlement isnt 
made within 28 days of us notifying Portal of Miss Cs acceptance of the decision. 
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the pensions (the SIPP and the stakeholder) at 
the end date.
If, at the end date, any of the investments in the pensions are illiquid (meaning they cannot 
be readily sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find an actual value for them. 
So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portal 
should take ownership of the illiquid investments by paying a commercial value acceptable 
to the pension provider. This amount it pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase the investments their actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Portal may wish to require that Miss C provides an
undertaking to pay it any amount she may receive from the investments in the future. That
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the
undertaking.
Notional Value
This is the value Miss C's original pension would have been worth had she not transferred 
and also continued to make regular contributions to it. Portal should request that the 
previous provider calculate the notional value.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP or Stakeholder should be added to the notional value
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP or Stakeholder should be deducted from the notional value
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal total all those payments and deduct that figure at the
end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
Miss C may not be able to take the benefits from her SIPP at retirement because of illiquid 
assets. Ive explained above that this issue might be resolved if Portal can buy the illiquid 
assets. However third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to 
do. So if Portal is  unable to purchase the illiquid investments, to provide certainty to all 
parties, I think its fair that Portal pays Miss C an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years 
worth of wrapper fees (calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the assets to be sold.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because in my view with suitable advice Miss C 
would have remained invested in her original personal pension. And the stakeholder plan 
only exists because of the unsuitable advice to transfer, so those contributions made to it 
would also have been paid into Miss C s original personal pension but for the unsuitable 
advice to transfer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Portal Financial Services LLP should calculate and pay compensation to Miss C as I have 
outlined above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman