DRN-1347237
The complaint
Mrs G complained about how CIS General Insurance Limited handled her repair claim under 
her motor insurance policy. She was represented by her partner, but for clarity I will continue 
to refer to Mrs G.
What happened
Mrs Gs car was damaged in an accident which wasnt her fault. CIS had her car inspected 
by independent engineers then repaired by their approved repairers (CISs garage). But 
Mrs G said they didnt fix it properly because they hadnt repaired a fault with the dashboard 
warning light which indicated a gearbox problem. She said it hadnt been there before the 
accident.
 
CIS didnt think that fault was accident related and wouldnt repair it, but they did partly 
uphold her complaint because prior to their repairs they didnt arrange a system sweep of 
the car as recommended by the pre-repair independent engineers report. They also offered 
her £100 in compensation for that.
She disagreed and was unhappy because she said she couldnt use the car and couldnt sell 
it. She also complained about loss of sound in her car and felt the policy should have 
covered her for that. I understand that has been dealt with as a separate complaint and so I 
dont comment on that here.
The investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
although CIS had made a mistake in not doing the system sweep, they apologised for that 
and had resolved it by having a manufacturer dealer do a diagnostic check on the car. He 
thought that there wasnt enough evidence that the warning light issue was accident related, 
and that the compensation CIS had offered was fair. Mrs G didnt agree and so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide if or how a car has been damaged, as that is a matter for the experts in 
these situations, the insurers and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine if 
the insurer has considered all the available evidence and whether they can justify their 
decision that the damage is not accident related. 
After the accident, CIS arranged for Mrs Gs car to be inspected by independent engineers. 
They reported that there was evidence of poor past repairs to the front and rear of her car, of 
long-standing water getting into the navigation control unit and there was an intermittent 
gearbox warning message on the instrument display. 
They recommended that her car should be repaired, but that CISs garage should first do a 
system sweep to check if the warning light issue was accident related. Its not clear whether 
the garage did do the system sweep. At one point CIS say they did do it, but in any event  
theres no report on it. However I dont think it matters, because it hasnt been shown that 
the system sweep would conclusively show whether the warning light issue was caused by 
the accident or not. 
CIS paid for a manufacturer garage to do a diagnostic check on Mrs Gs car instead. The 
manufacturer garage said that the problem was a mechanical fault relating to the clutch 
temperature sensor and gears, and it was not accident related.
Mrs G had her car fixed at her own expense, but the warning light problem remained. Her 
mechanic thought that problem was accident related. However when CIS spoke to her 
mechanic about it, he could not be conclusive that it was accident related. He also said the 
car was driveable.
CIS apologised for not having done the system sweep and offered Mrs G £100 in 
compensation for that inconvenience.  She didnt think that was enough and she thought that 
theyd taken too long. But I think that CIS did the right thing in taking account of her concerns 
and returning her car to the garage and then the manufacturer garage and I dont think there 
was unreasonable delay. CIS admitted that their garage had made a mistake in failing to do 
the system sweep, and they did apologise for that and I think the compensation they offered 
is enough to reflect the inconvenience she experienced as a result of that
I do think that its very unfortunate that Mrs Gs car has been damaged through no fault of 
her own. I can also see that she feels frustrated that she isnt believed that the gearbox light 
problem was caused by the accident. She feels that she shouldnt have to prove that it was 
caused by the accident, and it should be for CIS to prove that it wasnt. However all we 
expect is that an insurer reasonably investigate and can justify their conclusion on the 
evidence. In this case CIS relied on the report of the independent engineers and on the 
opinion of the manufacturer garage in deciding that the problem was not accident related. 
This is expert independent evidence and so CIS are entitled to rely on that. Looking at all the 
evidence CIS had, I dont think their decision was unreasonable. As the investigator 
explained, if Mrs G is able to provide expert evidence to the contrary, this service could look 
at it again. However I dont now require CIS to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
