DRN-3199375
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) failed to notify
him of an interest rate change on a savings account he held for his son, meaning he has lost
out on interest.  
What happened
Mr S held different savings accounts for both of his sons with Halifax. I think its important to
clarify that this complaint and my response is specifically about one of them (account
number ending ****3564). Some of the testimony references accounts for both sons, but Mr
S confirmed to us that this is the account with a significant impact on the interest earned,
and this is the account referenced in Halifaxs response to him. So, my conclusions below
are specific to this account.
Mr S was the named owner of a young saver account for his son which was paying 2%
interest per annum for balances up to £20,000. At some point in 2018 Halifax were making
changes to these accounts. It was becoming a kids saver account and the interest rate
payable changed to 2% for balances up to £5,000, and 0.2% for balances over this amount.
Ill talk about exactly when this happened in my findings below.
Mr S says he wasnt made aware of these changes, and only became aware the rate had
changed at an annual review meeting with a Halifax advisor in January 2020. He
complained, and Halifax issued their final response letter rejecting his complaint on 29
February 2020. They said they had contacted him by letter in May 2018 to advise of planned
changes to the accounts, saying these changes were planned to start to take place in
August 2018 on a phased basis. They confirmed they had the correct address on file for Mr
S and couldnt be held responsible for the receipt of the letter, only for sending it.
They also said that he had received statements during the time between these changes and
him becoming aware of the rate change in January 2020 which confirmed the interest rates
and the limits which applied to them.
Unhappy with this response, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. An investigator here
looked at the complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt that it was most likely Halifax had sent
the communications informing Mr S of the rate changes, and as such they had done nothing
wrong.
Mr S felt that Halifax had been unable to provide any evidence of these communications or
of them being sent, so asked for an Ombudsman to review the case.  
I issued a provisional decision on 19 November 2021. My provisional findings were as 
follows:
I think its important firstly to deal with the issue about copies of letters sent to consumers. I
appreciate that its fairly common for banks not to retain the actual copies of letters sent out
to customers for things like interest rate changes. These are often large scale
communications that are sent out through a template letter being mail merged with a large
list of names and addresses, and banks often wont store the specific copy sent to a
consumer. Mr S feels that Halifax should be able to produce a copy of the specific letter sent
to him, but I wouldnt agree with this.
Having said that, when I looked at the evidence Halifax had provided us with the case, I did
feel there were some things which were unclear, so I asked our investigator to request more
information from them. Specifically, I asked for the exact date notification letters were sent
about the interest rate change, the template letter used even if the actual copy sent to Mr S
is unavailable, and the specific date the rate change was applied to Mr Ss account.
There had also been some further communication between Mr S and Halifax after their final
response letter was issued, and some of this was around the fact they had also sent a copy
of the notification to a digital inbox Mr S held with them. Mr S says he has not set up this
facility or used it, so I asked Halifax to provide the electronic copy/version of the rate change
notification they had sent, and also to confirm his communication preferences with them.
Halifaxs response was that they were unable to provide a copy of the letter sent, and that Mr
S needed to check his online inbox as they cannot provide this and do not have access to
his personal online inbox.
They also said that regarding the dates, they had already provided us with the details of
when the rate change took place and had provided system notes that advise of any letters
sent.
So, I have reviewed the evidence Halifax sent to us originally. When they sent over some
copy statements and system notes, the covering email said that they had sent a letter in
May 2018 advising of the changes planned to be phased in across August 2018. When I
cross reference this with the system notes detailing Halifax communications with the
customer in 2018, there are some communications in March and April 2018, but these notes
say they are regarding a specific project to update the names on accounts held for children.
There is no communication noted as being sent to Mr S between May 2018 and November
2018.
There are notes of annual statements being sent in November 2018, and then notes on 4
December 2018 which appear to be made by the branch Mr S uses, which might tie in with
him saying he had his annual review with them in December. These are the only notes
during the relevant time period. There is no note of a letter being sent in May 2018 when
Halifax say they sent him details of the upcoming rate change.
I have then looked at the copy statements Halifax have sent us. These show that on 20
December 2018, Mr S arranged to reduce the balance in the account to £20,000. This would
appear to show that he was reducing the balance to the figure he believed was the
maximum amount on which he would earn the higher interest rate. This behaviour is
consistent with his testimony that he was unaware that the limit to earn 2% interest was now
£5,000.
Alongside this, he has told us he had done this following an annual review in branch with an
advisor. This would suggest the advisor also wasnt aware of the change in interest rate on
the account.
Halifax have told Mr S and our service that the interest rates which applied to the account
were detailed on his statements sent in 2018 and 2019. In other words, if he hadnt seen the
notification of a change in interest rate sent in 2018, his statements which followed after this
change would at least have confirmed the details to him. Ive looked at the copy statements
Halifax have provided to us; there is no indication of the interest rate applicable on these
statements. I appreciate that these may not be the actual copies of what was sent to Mr S,but they have been sent to us as copy statements, and dont include the interest rate
applicable on the account. They only show the amount of interest earned in pounds and
pence.
So, theres no evidence in Halifaxs system notes of a notification being sent to Mr S by post,
and Halifax have been unable to provide the actual letter sent or the template letter of this
communication. There is also no confirmation of the date this letter was sent other than
being told it was May 2018.
Additionally, Halifax have not provided evidence that the applicable interest rates were
confirmed in any statements sent after the change, as the copy statements provided dont
include interest rate information on them.
And finally, Mr S has told us he had a review in branch in December 2018, after the date the
interest rate has changed. After this review, he moved some funds out of the account to
bring the balance down to £20,000. He said this was to maximise interest earned, and his
actions would suggest that the branch didnt inform him that the rate had changed either for
balances above £5,000.
Ive looked at the relevant BCOBS regulations around notifying a customer about interest
rate changes. They say:
The firm should provide reasonable notice to the banking customer on paper or in another
durable medium before the change takes effect, taking into account the period of notice
required by the banking customer to terminate the contract for the retail banking service. A
change to a rate of interest should always be considered material except where the balance
of the account is less than £100 at the time when the firm would provide the notice
The BCOBS regulations also state that if notice is being provided more than 14 days in
advance of the change, it should be followed up by a reminder within a period beginning 14
days before the relevant change takes effect.
So, if Halifax had notified Mr S of the proposed rate changes in May 2018, which were due
to take place in August 2018, I would also have expected them to have notified him again,
within 14 days of the change happening. There has also been no evidence provided of this
notification. As mentioned above, within the system notes Halifax have referred me to,
theres no communication at all noted with Mr S during August 2018.
Halifax have also said that they provided notification to Mr Ss digital inbox. Theyve told
him this was sent on 23 May 2018 and he can still find it here if he logs in. Mr S has told us
hes never set this facility up and doesnt use it and doesnt operate this account online. In
looking at the terms of the young saver account, I can see that it couldnt be serviced online
and has to be serviced in branch, so this would make sense. I asked Halifax for a copy of the
digital communication they sent to him, as well as his communication preferences. They
havent provided me with either of those, instead referring me to Mr S to obtain a copy of
whats in his inbox. Hes told us he isnt able to check this.
I can see that Mr S has communicated through email with Halifax during this process, but
theres been no evidence presented or suggestion that he has ever accessed his digital
inbox. As such, even if there was evidence of this digital communication, I dont think this
can be relied upon as a suitable media to inform Mr S of the rate change.
The evidence provided by both Halifax and Mr S shows that Mr S manages this account
through annual reviews. It appears there was a review in December 2018, but theres no
evidence that anything was communicated to Mr S about the change in interest rates for this
account. Indeed, his actions would suggest both parties assumed the account was stillpaying interest of 2% on balances of up to £20,000.
As such, I dont think that the issue of whether the statements sent out provided evidence of
the interest rate is relevant here either. He would be expected to read a letter sent informing
him of any rate changes, but if he chose to meet someone at branch once a year to review
his account, rather than to review the statements sent out once or twice a year himself, this
is reasonable. If theres going to be a rate change, its fair to expect a specific
communication about this, and not to have to analyse your statement retrospectively to spot
it had happened.
Theres no evidence Mr S uses a digital inbox to communicate with Halifax. Hes confirmed
he received written statements for this account, which I can cross reference with evidence of
these being sent which Halifax have provided. But Mr S has said he didnt receive written
notification of any interest rate change. Halifax dont have a copy of specific the letter sent
and havent been able to confirm what date it was sent other than May 2018. Theyve also
not provided a template letter to show overall details of the letters sent out.
Further to this, there would also be a requirement to have reconfirmed the specific date that
the rate was due to change within 14 days of the date it changed. Having looked through the
evidence provided, I cant see any mention of any communication with Mr S around August
2018 about this interest rate.
Im also not sure of the exact date Mr Ss interest rate was changed, as there was talk of this
being phased in August 2018, but the rate table provided by Halifax says that the rate on
the kids saver account of 2% up to balances of £5,000 and 0.2% for balances above this
began in April 2018. I would assume this may be when this account was launched, and Mr
Ss previous young saver account was merged into this new product at some point in
August 2018. Judging by the copy statements provided, this may have been 17 August
2018, as the interest on the account for the year to date was added at this point, and it then
became a monthly addition of interest.
Even if this was an account change to a new product, there is no evidence or suggestion
that this was instigated by Mr S. He believes it was a simple rate change on the account he
already held. The account remained with the same sort code and account number, so Id
expect to see evidence of Halifax informing him of this change in account and specifically in
interest rate. Theyve told us they provided this notification by letter, but they have been
unable to provide any evidence that this was communicated to Mr S, either in May 2018
when they say a letter was sent, or through the required reminder closer to the time (within
14 days of the change).
Mr Ss testimony is plausible, and the evidence Halifax has provided backs up the chain of
events he has described. Im satisfied that in this particular case, considering the balance of
probabilities, Mr S wasnt notified about this rate change. I dont believe he received a letter
in May 2018 outlining the planned changes, but even if he did, there is no evidence Halifax
followed this up with the required reminder communication within 14 days of the actual
change taking place. As such, I intend to uphold his complaint.
Mr S became aware of the reduced interest rate at his annual review in branch in early
January 2020. He raised a complaint at this point and moved the excess funds out of the
account on 30 January 2020. I am satisfied that he mitigated his loss in a timely fashion by
finding another account in January 2020 and removing the funds above £5,000 that hadnt
been earning the level of interest he thought they were.
Putting things right
Subject to any further submissions I receive, I intend to ask Bank of Scotland plc trading asHalifax to do the following:
- Rework the interest for the account in question to reflect Mr S not being notified of
the change in rates/boundaries. It should therefore be recalculated based on the
account continuing to receive the rate that was applied to the young saver account in
the first half of 2018 (which I believe was 1.98% gross per annum, AER 2%, on
balances up to £20,000). This should be recalculated from the date this
rate/boundary was changed in August 2018 until 30 January 2020 when Mr S
mitigated his losses by reducing the balance on the account down to £5,000.
- Once this interest shortfall has been worked out to 30 January 2020, add annual
simple interest to this of 8% from 30 January 2020 to the date it is paid. If Halifax
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from
the simple interest figure from 30 January 2020 onwards, it should tell Mr S how
much it has taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions received by the due date, my provisional decision is that I
will be upholding the complaint and asking Halifax to put things right as I have described
above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax have responded to my provisional decision by sending further evidence, some of 
which is evidence I had asked for previously and have referenced above as not being 
provided. I will go through what has been sent and how I feel it impacts on my provisional 
decision.
They have sent copy statements/documents for the account dated June 2018, January 
2019, February 2020 and June 2020. I referenced in my provisional decision that the copy 
statements provided at that point might not actually be the copies of the statements sent, as 
they were unbranded. The copies sent now appear to be the branded versions that would 
have been sent. 
Halifax have said that these have been taken from copies sent to Mr Ss online mailbox. As I 
discussed in my provisional decision above, I dont think these can be relied upon as 
communications, as the account he held could not be serviced online. Mr S has told us he 
doesnt use the online service and doesnt believe he is registered for it. Halifax havent 
confirmed any communication preferences or whether he has used/accessed an online 
mailbox, so I am satisfied that on balance, its most likely Mr S wouldnt have received these 
online versions.
However, they do provide me with evidence of what is likely to have been the versions 
posted out to him as well. So, I do think they provide some useful evidence here. What I can 
see is that the June 2018 statement confirms the original higher interest rates which were 
still in place at this time. It then shows the balances in the account and interest amounts 
applied, as well as any transactions during the period. 
The January 2019 statement would be of particular interest, because this would potentially 
show Mr S that the account rate has changed, if he wasnt aware up to this point. This is significantly sooner than he has told us that he became aware of the change.  
The statement provided dated January 2019 says that the account continued to receive the 
higher rates in the period 16 June 2018  2 August 2018 and details the rate. It also says 
You changed to a different type of account but doesnt explain what account, or what 
interest rate was applicable to that account after 2 August 2018. 
And it doesnt actually provide any statement information like transactions, balances or 
amount of interest paid for the period. As such, it shows no evidence of Mr S being given the 
information about the rate change on the account or being able to even potentially work out 
what impact the changes have had by noticing a much lower amount of interest being paid. 
The final statements sent are dated February 2020 and June 2020. These dates are after Mr 
S has become aware of the changes, so whilst they do evidence the lower interest rates 
applicable were shown to him at these dates, these both come after we already know hed 
found out about the rate drop and acted to mitigate things. So, they are of little relevance 
here.  
The final piece of evidence provided by Halifax is the template letter they say was used to 
inform Mr S of the impending changes to the account. The template provided is dated 11 
May 2018, and does go through all the changes proposed, and says they are due to be 
implemented on 23 July 2018. 
As discussed in the provisional decision, Halifax have been unable to tell me when they sent 
this letter to Mr S, and the system notes provided, which detail communications sent to him, 
have nothing noted down as being sent in May 2018. They also told us that the letter they 
sent told him that the changes would happen across August 2018, whereas this template 
says 23 July 2018. And there has been no evidence provided that the exact date of the 
interest rate change has been reconfirmed to Mr S, or even confirmation that the account 
had changed over to the new type of account. 
I had assumed from the original copy statements provided that the changeover date to the 
new account was 17 August 2018, a date where interest for the year to date was worked out 
and added on, before the account changed to calculating interest monthly. However, the 
copy statement provided now (dated January 2019) says this date was in fact 2 August 
2018. And the template letter provided says the change was due to happen on 23 July 2018.  
Overall, the additional evidence provided by Halifax since my provisional decision does not 
persuade me that my provisional decision should be changed. The online statements 
provided are unclear and dont show the details of the rate changes being applied, even if 
they are the same details that were posted out to him. 
Whilst the template letter does clearly explain the changes being planned, I am still not 
persuaded this evidence alleviates Halifax of their responsibilities to notify Mr S. Theyve 
been unable to confirm for me exactly me when they sent him the letter. And the system 
notes provided which detail communications sent to Mr S dont show any letter being sent in 
the relevant time period.  
On top of this, when making a fundamental change to an account like this, and notifying the 
customer well in advance, it is reasonable to expect a follow up notification to be sent closer 
to the time the changes were due to happen. I think this is particularly relevant in this case, 
where even in this investigation, I have evidence which suggests 3 different dates that this 
change was due to happen or may have happened, and no confirmation of exactly when it 
did happen. If it was a simple rate change, as I have highlighted in my provisional decision, the BCOBS 
regulations would require follow up notification no sooner than 14 days before the change 
date. However even in a situation like this, where in fact the savings account/product is 
being changed to a different account, I think it is reasonable to expect confirmation of this 
somewhere around the time it was happening. 
The changes to the account including the interest rate changes were significant. Im not 
persuaded that the potential for a letter to have been sent several months before the 
changes is enough for Halifax to have met its obligations to notify Mr S. Particularly with no 
evidence in this case of the letter being sent to Mr S.
For these reasons, I am satisfied that my provisional decision is fair, and am upholding the 
complaint
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should arrange to do the following:
- Rework the interest for the account in question to reflect Mr S not being notified of
the change in rates/boundaries. It should therefore be recalculated based on the
account continuing to receive the rate that was applied to the young saver account in
the first half of 2018 (which I believe was 1.98% gross per annum, AER 2%, on
balances up to £20,000). This should be recalculated from the date this
rate/boundary was changed in August 2018 until 30 January 2020 when Mr S
mitigated his losses by reducing the balance on the account down to £5,000.
- Once this interest shortfall has been worked out to 30 January 2020, add annual
simple interest to this of 8% from 30 January 2020 to the date it is paid. If Halifax
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from
the simple interest figure from 30 January 2020 onwards, it should tell Mr S how
much it has taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
My final decision
 I am upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman