DRN-3166805
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by increasing his 
overdraft limit and acted unfairly by continuing to apply charges to his account when he was 
in financial difficulty. 
  
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Lloyds should have 
stopped charging overdraft fees from 30 January 2014 as by this point it was clear Mr M was 
in financial difficulty and Lloyds shouldnt have accepted Mr Es request for overdraft limit 
increases from this point on. 
Lloyds accepted our adjudicators view. It said that it would refund all interest, fees and 
charges applied to the account from 30 January 2014. Lloyds advised that the refund would 
be £2,130.52 and it would be used to reduce Mr Es outstanding debt with it. 
Mr E doesnt want to accept the settlement offer  he would like his debt written off and has 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr E is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable  in this case January 
2014. And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
Lloyds has told us that Mr E is left with an outstanding debt, once all adjustments have been 
made, and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by his overdraft 
from January 2014. So while Mr E has been left with a balance and he might be unhappy 
with this, Lloyds has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit when it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr E says Lloyds should do something different here. He says all debt should be written off.
But all the interest, fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt have added have been removed from 
what he now needs to pay. So what Mr E is left with to repay are the funds which he used 
and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left him with a 
debt that he wouldnt otherwise have been left with. Indeed this is supported by Mr Es 
statements at the time which show significant transactions to parties other than existing 
creditors. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Mr E spent them, I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect Mr E to repay these funds. And I dont think that Mr Es unhappiness at 
having a debt to repay, even after his complaint has been upheld, is in itself a compelling 
reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Mr E is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr E to decide whether he 
wishes to accept Lloydss offer.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Lloyds 
has already agreed to do to put things right for Mr E is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman