DRN-3416661
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) didnt 
answer his calls about his chargeback claim.
What happened
Mr M had a Barclaycard and in April 2019, used it to buy a holiday which was to take place 
in October 2019. The holiday company ceased trading. He was unsuccessful in claiming the 
cost of the holiday back through the ATOL process and filed a claim with Barclaycard in April 
2020. The claim amount of £2,258.89 was credited to his Barclaycard account on 8 July 
2020. A transfer out of Mr Ms Barclaycard for the same amount was made on 14 July 2020.
Mr M complained. He said he spent 90 hours on the phone trying to get through to 
Barclaycard to discuss his claim. He said this was unacceptable. This was wasted time 
which impacted his personal life, including a missed visit to his grandmother in hospital.
Barclaycard apologised for the long wait time experienced by Mr M and paid compensation 
of £75.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard had dealt with Mr Ms 
complaint reasonably. She said that the amount of the refund was credited to Mr Ms 
Barclaycard account, and that was why he needed to call Barclaycard  to have the amount 
transferred to his bank account. There was an online option for customers to request the 
transfer of a credit balance  but Mr M didnt use that and chose to call Barclaycard instead. 
Barclaycard  like many other banks  were experiencing high call volumes and waiting 
times due to the pandemic; and they put a recorded message on the phones to say that 
waiting times to speak to an advisor were long. Overall, she considered that Barclaycards 
payment of compensation of £75 was appropriate.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that £75 wasnt enough for the 90 hours he spent on the phone. 
He asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms reason for calling Barclaycard was to ask to transfer the credit balance on his 
Barclaycard to another account. The chargeback refund of £2,258.89 was credited to his 
card account on 8 July 2020. So, I looked at this aspect first. 
Mr Ms holiday  due to take place in October 2019  was affected by the holiday company 
going out of business. So, Mr M needed to claim back its cost and expenses. He lodged his 
claim with Barclaycard on or around 7 April 2020  as thats the date on the chargeback 
forms. It was processed, considered, and agreed by Barclaycard and paid on 8 July 2020. 
Barclaycard told us that they had considerable numbers of claims to deal with at that time  
as the pandemic had of course affected many peoples travel plans. Nevertheless, the claim 
was paid within three months and while that wasnt ideal  under the circumstances of the 
time, I think that was reasonable.
I can see that Mr Ms Barclaycard account had a nil balance on it. So, when the refund was 
made to that account, it created a credit balance. Mr M, quite reasonably, wanted to transfer 
it to another account. He called Barclaycard to do that. He said in his complaint to us that he 
spent 90 hours on the phone, trying to get through and to speak to the right area of the bank. 
I considered this  and even accepting a lot of delays in answering calls among most banks 
at the time  90 hours does seem excessive. So, we asked Barclaycard about that  and 
they also said it was unusual. So, we asked Mr M if he had any evidence from his phone 
records at the time to validate the figure. Unfortunately, he didnt provide that  and so, its 
difficult for me to reasonably say that 90 hours was spent on the phone by Mr M. 
But I dont doubt at all that he did experience long wait times  as all banks were 
experiencing difficulties as call centres were shut and staff were sent home to work. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) said at the time that customers needed to be patient 
when contacting banks given the impact of the pandemic. So  I think we must recognise the 
difficulties that Barclaycard were facing.
Barclaycard told us that they put an automated message on their phone service to warn of 
delays  and it suggested that customers went online instead. In Mr Ms case, they told us 
that he couldve gone online and asked for the credit balance on his card account to be 
transferred in that way. But unfortunately, he chose to try to call Barclaycard instead. I can 
see that the amount of the refund was transferred from Mr Ms Barclaycard account on 14 
July 2020  six days after the refund had been made.
So  I must reach a balanced decision here. I can understand Mr Ms frustration at what 
happened, and Im sure it was inconvenient for him. But equally, he couldve made the 
transfer instruction online, but didnt. And  we must accept that Barclaycard were facing 
unplanned pressure on their phone lines at the time - and warned customers of that if they 
called.
And so, on balance, while I know Mr Ms will be disappointed by my decision, Im not 
upholding his complaint.  And Barclaycard dont have to do anymore here.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman