DRN-2139834
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt fully settled a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M has travel insurance as part of the benefits of his package bank account. He told us 
that he took out the insurance in 2013 when he took out a loan. He says that he wasnt 
asked about his medical conditions during the sales process. Hes renewed his policy each 
year. 
In 2018 Mr M became unwell when he was abroad and incurred over €5000 in medical 
expenses. He claimed on his travel insurance policy and AXA settled the claim for the 
expenses incurred up until that point. 
Mr M claimed for some further medical expenses and AXA realised that they hadnt checked 
Mr Ms medical history properly. Once they had obtained the medical information they said 
that Mr Ms claim should have been declined as it was connected to a pre-existing medical 
condition he hadnt declared. AXA said they wanted to recover the money theyd paid to 
Mr M and they wouldnt pay the outstanding bills. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr Ms complaint in part. She 
didnt think it was fair for AXA to try and recover the costs from Mr M when theyd made an 
error in accepting the claim. However, she thought that they shouldnt pay anything more 
because Mr M wouldnt have been offered the annual policy by AXA at all if hed accurately 
declared his pre-existing medical conditions. She also explained that AXA werent 
responsible for the sale of the policy back in 2013, as that was conducted by Mr Ms bank. 
AXA accepted the investigators recommendation. But Mr M didnt agree and asked an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that it was important to go back to 2013 when 
he took out the loan and the insurance. He said he didnt get any copies of the policy 
document in 2013 and that he couldnt have declared his medical condition, because it 
wasnt diagnosed until 2018. He wants AXA to pay the balance of his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale of the policy in 2013
AXA isnt responsible for the sale of the policy back in 2013. So if Mr M is unhappy with what 
happened during the sales process then thats something hell need to address with the 
seller of the policy, which I understand is his bank. 
Whilst Mr M took out the policy in 2013 the policy has renewed each year. That means each 
year since 2013 Mr M has entered into a new contract of insurance.
The renewal of the policy in September 2018
Mr Ms policy renewed in September 2018. At around that time Mr M contacted AXA to say 
he was planning a trip in October 2018. 
 
AXA says Mr M incorrectly answered medical questions when he contacted them. This 
means the law set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA) are relevant and I think its fair and reasonable to apply these principles to 
the circumstances of Mr Ms claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to misrepresent 
facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that of a 
reasonable consumer. 
One of the factors to be considered when deciding whether a consumer has taken 
reasonable care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. Mr M 
was asked several questions about his medical history when he contacted AXA in 
September 2018. These included the following;
Within the six months before you booked your trip did you take prescribed 
medications, or receive any treatment, like surgery, tests or any investigations?
At the time of booking the trip were you waiting to receive treatment like any surgery, 
tests or investigations? 
Are you currently waiting for a confirmed diagnosis for any medical conditions?
In answer to these questions Mr M said he was taking tablets to prevent high blood pressure 
and high cholesterol levels. He also explained he had sleep apnoea and used a machine for 
this. And he said he had a recent heart murmur and would be seen again in six months time 
for this. Mr M said that he had cover with another provider for medical expenses but they 
wouldnt cover for him for repatriation.
Mr M booked his holiday in August 2018 and his insurance renewed in September 2018. 
AXA says, in response to the above questions, Mr M should have told them about his 
diagnoses of aortic stenosis, congestive heart failure and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary 
Disease (COPD). They also say he should have told them about medication that he took for 
these conditions. 
In deciding whether I think Mr M took reasonable care in answering these questions, Ive 
reviewed his medical records and Ive also considered what Mr M has told us about his 
medical history. Mr M was prescribed a number of medications during the six months before 
he booked his holiday, including tablets and inhalers. Mr M also had a number of 
investigations as his consultant recommended a chest radiograph, lung function test and 
echocardiogram in March 2018. Mr M was diagnosed with heart failure and aortic stenosis in 
May 2018. In July 2018 his medical records include documents relating to an oxygen 
delivery to Mr Ms home. In August 2018 the consultant noted four prescriptions in addition 
to inhalers. Mr M also had a review of his COPD in August 2018. Mr M didnt mention this 
information during the call with AXA. And I dont think it is unreasonable for AXA to conclude there were separate diagnoses for the heart murmur and the aortic stenosis as that is what 
the medical evidence says.
Having taken all of the above into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to 
conclude Mr M should have disclosed information about the aortic stenosis, COPD and heart 
failure and the additional medication when answering the questions, Ive set out above. 
Therefore, I think Mr M did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.
As Mr M made a qualifying misrepresentation, AXA is entitled to apply the relevant
remedy available to it under CIDRA. This says that, in cases of careless misrepresentation, if 
the insurer would not have entered into the contract then the insurer is entitled to avoid the 
policy, decline all claims and refund the premiums. 
AXA has demonstrated that had Mr M disclosed his other existing medical conditions they 
wouldnt have offered him cover. So, they were entitled to decline his claim in full and refund 
the premiums. Based on what Mr M has told us this policy was a free benefit to his package 
bank account and so he didnt pay any premiums. But, in any event, as AXA has settled a 
large portion of the claim when it shouldnt have, I dont think it is fair and reasonable to 
direct AXA to refund any premiums paid for this policy. 
The outstanding balance
AXA accepted Mr Ms claim in error and has paid over £4000 towards his medical expenses. 
Theyve agreed that they wont pursue Mr M for these costs as this was an error on their 
part. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But I dont think AXA should pay anything further towards the claim. As Ive outlined above 
Mr M wasnt entitled to have his claim paid at all. And just because AXA accepted the claim 
in error I dont think it means they should pay the outstanding amount as theyd have never 
offered Mr M cover had he disclosed his full medical history correctly.
Putting things right
AXA needs to put things right by not pursuing Mr M for the money theyve paid out towards 
his claim already. But they dont need to pay anything more towards the claim given the 
circumstances Ive outlined above.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms claim in part and directing AXA Insurance UK Plc to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman