DRN-2475356
The complaint
Mr W complains about advice Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited gave him to 
drawdown income from his Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). In particular, Mr W says:
-  he feels the advice will negatively affect his inheritance tax (IHT) planning; 
-  the advice was unsuitable as it is unlikely he will ever need to access drawdown 
again; and,
- he feels the cost of the advice was too high.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr W had a meeting with his Hargreaves Lansdown adviser. Mr W had recently 
retired. From the information recorded by the adviser at the time, it appears that Mr W 
wanted advice on funding his retirement until he was eligible for an occupational pension in 
October 2021 and his state pension in October 2022. The adviser recorded that Mr W had 
an income shortfall of around £13,500 per year until he was eligible for his state and 
occupational pension.
The adviser noted that although Mr W and his wife had significant deposit-based savings, 
they didnt want to use these savings to fund their income shortfall as the money was 
earmarked for a property purchase.
Based on the information recorded, it appeared that once Mr W was in receipt of both his 
state and occupational pension in October 2022, he wouldnt need to drawdown income from 
his SIPP. In order to meet Mr Ws requirement to fund his retirement until he was eligible for 
his state and occupational pension, the adviser recommended a flexible access drawdown 
pension to allow Mr W to drawdown the income he required.
The adviser set out his recommendation in a suitability report dated 14 May 2018. In the 
report the adviser noted that he had discussed alternatives to drawdown with Mr W. He also 
noted that Mr W didnt want to use his deposit-based savings to make up the shortfall in his 
income until he was eligible for his state and occupational pension as Mr W intended to use 
this money for a property purchase.
The report explained that Mr W could make use of his tax-free personal allowance by 
drawing down some of the funds in his SIPP to provide the income he required. It also set 
out that the adviser had discussed the inheritance tax liability on the joint estate Mr W held 
with his wife, but Mr W had told the adviser that he didnt want to discuss IHT planning at 
that time.
The report detailed the cost of the advice and confirmed that this had been discussed and 
agreed with Mr W. 
In September 2019 Mr W complained to Hargreaves Lansdown. He said it shouldnt have 
advised him to enter into flexible drawdown as it would have a negative impact on his IHT 
planning. He also said he felt it was unlikely he would need to access drawdown again; and, 
in view of this he felt the cost of the advice was too high.
Hargreaves Lansdown didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said, in summary, that it felt its 
advice was suitable. It said it had met Mr Ws objective to provide him with an income until 
he was eligible to draw his state and occupational pension. And it said that its advice had 
allowed Mr W to take advantage of his tax-free personal allowance. It noted Mr W had told 
its adviser that he didnt want to use his deposit-based savings to fund his income shortfall, 
or to discuss IHT planning. It also said it had clearly disclosed its fees. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Hargreaves Lansdowns response and referred his complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He said he was 
satisfied that the advice Mr W had received was suitable and didnt have a negative effect on 
his IHT planning. He also said he was satisfied that the cost of the advice had been clearly 
explained to Mr W. 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. He said that until the advice he had received had 
been reviewed by another financial adviser he didnt realise that the advice given was 
incorrect. Mr W said:
It is very easy to write and cover yourself in a substantive document knowing that you have 
already sold the benefits and once discovered, the client would be unable to dispute it as it is 
covered within the report. 
He also reiterated that he felt the advice did not fully address inheritance and took monies 
for ISAs rather than suggest it remain in the fund and that cash would be better used funding 
my supposed shortfall rather than the drawdown which was advised.
In relation to the fees charged Mr W said:
A fee is charged of almost £2.7k for an initial monthly drawdown of £13.5k which I didnt 
dispute because I was informed that the fee would cover future drawdowns although I would 
never require these drawdowns in light of my inheritance tax potential liability. Therefore a 
fee of 20% of what was actually required was a seriously large charge.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have very carefully considered the points Mr W has made. I am sympathetic to his position, 
but I dont think Hargreaves Lansdown has acted incorrectly in this matter, or that the advice 
it gave was unsuitable based on the information Mr W provided to it at the time. Ill explain 
why.
advice
Mr W says that his adviser was fully aware that we had a simple lifestyle with no debts 
and even if drawdown was ever required this would decrease over time as other pension 
income commenced. That being the case, shorter term advice would have been more 
appropriate to draw upon other sources of money rather than from the SIPP.
And Mr W says that he feels his cash reserves were more than enough to cover our 
suggested shortfall in income for more than two years. 
As this was the case, Mr W said he should not have been advised to enter into a flexible 
drawdown plan to fund his income shortfall until he was eligible for his occupational and state pension. Mr W also noted that the adviser recommended that he and his wife should 
contribute £2,880 net to their SIPPs and fund an ISA to take advantage of the tax relief 
available.
It is not in dispute that Mr and Mrs W had significant deposit-based savings. I agree that it 
would have been sensible for them to consider using these savings to supplement their 
income, before considering other options. But I must take into account that the adviser 
recorded under the heading, Using Other Assets to Release Required Income; 
We discussed the possibility of simply using cash deposits to meet your income shortfall 
until your other pensions become payable. We discounted this on the basis that there is a 
possible house purchase that you may require your cash for. 
In view of this I cant reasonably find that the adviser did not make Mr W aware that he could 
use his deposit-based savings to fund his income shortfall. 
I must also take into account that if Mr W had chosen to supplement his income with his 
deposit-based savings, he would not have been able to utilise his personal income tax 
allowance. As the adviser explained in the suitability report, Mr W had  taxable income 
amounting to £1,662 p.a. from your annuity and rental income. You would like to extract 
taxable income from your SIPP of around £10,125 so that it remains below your personal 
allowance of £11,850. By taking a total of £13,500 from the SIPP you will be able to extract 
£3,375 as a tax-free lump sum with the remaining £10,125 paid as a taxable income.
By advising Mr W to take a taxable income of £10,125 from his SIPP the adviser ensured 
Mr W could make full use of his personal allowance.  I note that the amount taken into 
drawdown was carefully planned so that he only used the remainder of his personal 
allowance, meaning no income tax would be payable.
The adviser also recommended that Mr W, (and Mrs W) should invest £2,880 net into a 
SIPP each year, subject to the lifetime allowance limit to take advantage of the tax relief 
available. And he advised Mr W to invest £20,000 in an ISA. I dont think advising Mr W to 
take advantage of the tax efficient wrapper offered by an ISA was unsuitable advice. Nor do I 
think advising Mr W (and Mrs W) to make use of the pension tax relief available to non-tax 
payers was unsuitable.  
I must also take into account that Mr W was free not to go ahead with the recommendations 
if, on reflection, he felt he would prefer to use his deposit-based savings rather than drawing 
down income from his SIPP.
inheritance tax planning
Mr W says Hargreaves Lansdown did not explain to him how Inheritance Tax worked and 
how the SIPP impacted on our estate. It is only thanks to advice from [Mr Ws new financial 
adviser], that I now understand that a key point is that the SIPP is outside of my estate for 
IHT and hence it is beneficial that funds remain in the SIPP rather than drawn down
I note Mr Ws comments, but I must take into account that the suitability report set out, under 
the heading, Other Areas of Advice:
 
I made you aware that there is currently a potential Inheritance Tax liability on your joint 
estate of around £270,000, however, this is not an area that you wanted to explore further at 
this point. I gave you information regarding gifting funds, the use of trusts and Whole of Life 
policies and recommend that you review this on an ongoing basis.I appreciate that Mr W now feels he should have discussed IHT planning with Hargreaves 
Lansdown. But I cant reasonably say that the adviser should have insisted on discussing 
this with Mr W when he had told the adviser that he didnt want to explore [IHT planning] 
further at this point. 
If, when Mr W received the suitability report he felt any points in it were incorrect I think it 
would have been reasonable for him to have queried this at the time. The covering letter, 
dated 14 May 2018, sent with the suitability report set out:
Please do check this and advise me straight away if there have been any changes to your 
circumstances or if it does not represent your situation accurately as I rely on this information 
to act in your best interest and inaccuracies could affect the suitability of my 
recommendations.
Mr W has said that:
It is very easy to write and cover yourself in a substantive document knowing that you have 
already sold the benefits and once discovered, the client would be unable to dispute it as it is 
covered within the report. 
But I cant reasonably hold Hargreaves Lansdown responsible if Mr W chose not to review 
the report the adviser sent to check it was an accurate reflection of the discussions he had 
with his adviser. 
I would also add that, even if IHT planning had been discussed, it is not the case that 
drawing down income from Mr Ws SIPP would have increased his IHT liability as the 
withdrawals were only intended to meet the shortfall in Mr Ws income until he was eligible 
for his occupational and state pension. Only income brought into the estate that wasnt spent 
would have increased Mr Ws IHT liability. 
Likewise, although the recommendation to take flexible drawdown moved £13,500 into 
Mr Ws estate from his SIPP, the adviser also recommended that both Mr and Mrs W should 
pay £2,880 net into their SIPPs. By doing so they would be moving funds out of their joint 
estate. By taking this advice the total net amount brought into Mr and Mrs Ws estate from 
the drawdown would have been reduced. 
The suitability report set out that this strategy should be repeated each year if it was 
affordable and the lifetime allowance limits were not exceeded. So, over time Mr W could 
have been in a position where he was taking more out of the estate than had been brought 
in through the drawdown  especially as it was intended that he would stop drawing down 
income in 2022 when he was eligible for his occupational and state pension.
cost of advice
Mr W says he feels the fees charged for the advice he received on the drawdown 
arrangement were excessive.  He says he didnt dispute the fee of around £2,700 for the 
advice he received to enter into a flexible drawdown plan because I was informed that the 
fee would cover future drawdowns although I would never require these drawdowns in light 
of my inheritance tax potential liability. Therefore, a fee of 20% of what was actually required 
was a seriously large charge.
It is not in dispute that the fee was discussed with Mr W at the time the advice was given and 
confirmed in writing. The suitability report dated May 2018 clearly set out the cost of the 
advice and that it had been discussed and agreed with Mr W.What is in dispute is whether Hargreaves Lansdown should refund the fee as Mr W feels the 
advice he received to enter into flexible drawdown wasnt suitable.
As I have set out above, I dont think the advice Mr W received from Hargreaves Lansdown 
was unsuitable. From the information recorded at the time the advice was given it appears 
that Mr W had an income shortfall of over £1,100 per month until 2022, when he would be 
eligible for both his occupational and state pension. 
He told the adviser that he didnt want to use cash to fund his income shortfall. In view of this 
I think the recommendation to use flexible drawdown met Mr Ws objective to fund his 
income shortfall. The recommendation allowed Mr W to make use of his personal allowance 
and did not increase his IHT liability as the funds moved into flexible drawdown were only 
intended to cover Mr Ws income shortfall and would therefore not have remained in his 
estate.
In view of this I cant reasonably say that Hargreaves Lansdown should refund the fee it 
charged Mr W for the drawdown advice it provided.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman