DRN-3707351
The complaint
Mr S complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) did not 
correctly execute his fill or kill order. He says he received US$18,535.26 less than he 
should have for the sale of his shares and he wants this amount reimbursed.
What happened
Mr S has an execution only share dealing account with HLAM. He had a holding of shares in 
a company which Ill refer to as C which was traded on the US markets. Shortly before 2pm 
on 9 June 2021, Mr S placed a fill or kill order to sell the shares. He says he wasnt able to 
set a limit price because he placed the deal via HLAMs phone app. He expected the shares 
to be sold when the market opened at 2.30pm.
C shares opened at US$7.12. But, when Mr S received confirmation of the trade, he only 
received US$6.55 per share because the sale wasnt executed until 2.44pm.
HLAM didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said Mr Ss order couldnt be dealt as quickly as is 
typically the case, but it was dealt as soon as practicable given the prevailing conditions and 
circumstances. It said the sale took place at the available market price at the time it was able 
to trade.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think HLAM 
had demonstrated there were any exceptional circumstances which would lead to a delay in 
trading; and that dealing 14 minutes after the market opened didnt feel fair or reasonable.
HLAM didnt agree, and Mr S didnt agree with the investigators suggested method of 
calculating the compensation payable, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld and I explained why. I said:
HLAM describes a fill or kill order as:
..an order to buy or sell at a specified price or better. If your order cannot be filled at 
the moment we attempt to place it in the market, it will be cancelled.
These types of orders are most typically used when markets are closed. And when 
Mr S used the HLAM app to place his sale order, he would have received this 
message, which included a link to allow him to place a fill or kill order:
Outside of market hours you will not see a live market price but you can still leave a 
dealing instruction. Leave a fill or kill order to deal when the market opens or as 
soon as practicable thereafter.
Mr S says HLAMs app did not allow him to input a limit price. HLAM has provided us 
with example screenshots which show there would have been an opportunity to enter 
a limit price. HLAM says Mr S entered zero, indicating he wanted to sell at the best 
price available.
Whether Mr S was given the opportunity to enter a limit price or not, it seems to me 
that he knew he hadnt set a limit price and he knew his order would be dealt at the 
available price when the market opened  or as soon as practicable after market 
opening. In doing so, I find he accepted the price might move unfavourably, 
especially at, and shortly after, market opening when prices tend to be more volatile.
When the market opened at 2.30pm, HLAM didnt receive an electronic price for Mr 
Ss order from its counterparties. I dont find this unreasonable or unsurprising given 
the shareholding Mr S wanted to sell and the size of the order. As the order couldnt 
be placed automatically, HLAM routed it to its manual dealing queue. The order 
wasnt dealt until 2.44pm, 14 minutes after the market opened. Clearly the order 
wasnt dealt immediately, but Ive considered whether it was dealt as soon as 
practicable" and whether the delay was reasonable in the circumstances.
I would expect HLAM to have systems and procedures in place to ensure it could 
trade the manual orders in accordance with its regulatory obligations. In other words 
to ensure all manual orders were dealt sequentially and promptly.
HLAM told us it received a high volume of orders for US stocks the day Mr S placed 
his order and around 5% of those orders needed to be dealt manually. It was obliged 
to place the orders sequentially, in other words in the order they had been received. 
Mr S placed his order fairly close to the market opening time which meant his order 
was 67th in the queue. HLAMs dealing desk was fully staffed but, because of the 
number of orders ahead of Mr Ss, it took 14 minutes for his order to be placed.
Im satisfied HLAM placed Mr Ss order promptly and as soon as practicable after 
the market opened, taking into account all the circumstances. And whilst HLAM 
would typically expect a fill or kill order to be executed more closely to the market 
opening time, the length of time that it took on this occasion didnt put it in breach of 
its terms and conditions or its regulatory obligations, because it still executed the 
trade as soon as it reasonably could.
I fully understand Mr Ss disappointment but, for the reasons Ive explained, Im 
satisfied that HLAM handled Mr Ss order in line with its agreed terms and conditions, 
including its order handling policy, and in line with its regulatory obligations.
Mr S didnt agree with my provisional decision. He said, in summary, that:
When he placed the order, his intention and instruction was that it should be executed at 
market opening  2.30pm. HLAM should have filled, or killed, his order at market 
opening.
HLAM couldnt fill his order immediately, and in its entirety, so it should have been killed. 
The trade was placed manually by one of HLAMs brokers. They should have realised 
that the delay had led to a significant drop in the share price and that the order should 
have been killed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, Ive summarised this complaint and what both parties 
have said and provided and focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive carefully reconsidered everything taking into account Mr Ss response to my provisional 
decision. Im sorry to disappoint him, but what hes said does not change my conclusion. Let 
me explain why.
Mr S says HLAM couldnt execute, or fill, his order immediately, so it should have been 
cancelled, or killed. But HLAM told us there was no electronic price for this order, so it had to 
be processed manually. Im not persuaded that the lack of an electronic price meant the 
order should have been killed immediately. HLAM needed to attempt to execute the order in 
the market, and that attempt was only possible manually.
A fill or kill order received after market hours should be executed immediately or as soon as 
practicable after the market opens. Ive already explained in my provisional decision why 
I think HLAM handled Mr Ss order in line with this agreed timescale, taking into account the 
other orders which had to be dealt ahead of his.
Mr S says the dealer who was given his order should have realised the price had fallen 
significantly and shouldnt have traded. But Mr Ss agreement with HLAM was an execution 
only agreement and HLAM was obliged to act on his instructions. It was not the dealers 
responsibility to consider price movements when hed been given an at best instruction. As 
I set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Mr S could have set a limit price if hed not 
wanted to sell his shares below a particular price.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman