DRN-3937620
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled and settled a claim on 
his motor insurance policy. 
Reference to UKI includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr A had a motor insurance policy with UKI. In November 2021 he told UKI the engine in his 
car had been damaged by driving through rainwater. There were delays in finding a garage 
that was able to look at the car. Mr A suggested a garage (garage R), which wasnt one of 
UKIs approved garages but was a specialised dealer in cars like Mr As. But UKI struggled 
to contact garage R. There was also debate about whether the engine could be repaired or if 
the car should be written off. In January 2022 the car was taken to another garage 
(garage S) with the view to repairing the engine. When that proved difficult, garage S 
decided to replace the engine. It had difficulty getting relevant parts for the car and it wasnt 
returned to Mr A until June 2022. Mr A then had problems with the thermostat and the car 
was taken to another garage (garage T), which was the main dealership for Mr As type of 
car. Mr A was without his car for about another 12 weeks, and it wasnt returned to him until 
September 2022. Mr A complained to UKI about the delays and the poor communication at 
several points throughout this period.
UKI apologised to Mr A for the initial delay in taking his car to garage S and failing to update 
him. It paid him £30 in January 2022 and Mr A accepted that. It gave him a further £150 in 
February 2022 due to poor communication about the progress of the repairs. And a further 
£300 in September 2022 for the worry and upset caused by the poor service provided.
Mr A wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to this service. In particular, 
he said he was angry that UKI had persuaded him to take his car to garage S, as he felt a 
main dealership for his car would have done a better job. He was also upset with the length 
of time the repairs had taken. He said he now wanted to sell his car but that was proving 
difficult as he needed to get a new V5 certificate from DVLA because of the new engine in 
his car. 
Our investigator found shortfalls in the service UKI had provided but he thought the total 
compensation of £480 it had given Mr A was fair. So, he didnt think UKI needed to take any 
further action.
As Mr A disagrees with our investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr A was always likely to suffer a degree of stress and inconvenience with a claim of 
this nature. Having his car taken away to be repaired was always going to cause some 
disruption. And while I can understand his frustration that the repairs took longer than he 
expected, I think its only fair to hold UKI responsible for any delays that were within its 
control and could have been avoided. 
UKI has acknowledged that the repairs to Mr As car took longer than was necessary, and its 
apologised and provided compensation for the impact of those delays. So, the question for 
me is whether UKI has done enough to put matters right. 
Period between November 2021 and January 2022
Mr A accepted UKIs apology and compensation for the initial delay in moving his car to 
garage S, and for failing to update him on progress. It seems to me that much of that delay 
was out of UKIs control. Its own garage said it couldnt deal with the type of damage caused 
to the engine of Mr As car and neither could his usual garage, which is where hed first 
taken the car when it was damaged. Mr A said he wanted the car taken to garage R, which 
wasnt one of UKIs approved garages. I can see that UKI tried to arrange the transfer of the 
car from Mr As garage to garage R, but it had problems getting in contact with that garage. 
Mr As garage then raised the question of whether the engine could be repaired and UKI 
asked its engineer to assess the damage. They decided it could be repaired and thought 
garage S was best placed to do that. UKI apologised to Mr A for the delay up to this point 
and paid him £30. And, in light of the above, I think that was a reasonable way of resolving 
his complaint about the delays and poor communication in this period. 
Mr A thinks UKI should have taken his car to a specialised dealership, like garage R or 
garage T, sooner, as he thinks they would have done a better job. But thats hypothetical as 
we dont know how quickly or how well they might have been able to repair his car had they 
had the opportunity. It seems likely they would have faced similar problems getting the parts 
that were needed. And, in any event, UKI did try to get garage R to look at the car but 
couldnt get in contact with it. 
Period between January and June 2022
UKI provided a further £150 in February 2022. It accepted it hadnt called Mr A back when it 
should have done. And there had been some confusion about which garage was repairing 
his car. Again, I think that amount was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr A was also unhappy with the way UKI was handling his claim, at times believing it should 
replace the engine rather than repairing it. And at other times believing it should write his car 
off and pay him the market value. The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say that if his 
car is damaged, UKI has the option of repairing the damage or settling the claim by paying 
the market value of the car at the time of loss. So, I think it was fair of UKI to say this was a 
decision for it to take. Mr A believes UKI would have been better off paying him the market 
value of his car. And, in hindsight, that might have been the better option given the garage 
eventually had to replace the engine. But, at the time the decision was made to repair rather 
than replace the engine, UKIs engineer felt it was possible. And, in light of the evidence, that 
seems fair. 
It was unfortunate there were delays in getting the parts needed to repair the engine but that 
was largely outside of UKIs control. And I dont think it would be fair to hold UKI responsible 
for those delays. There were then problems with the engine and garage S had to order more 
parts, which delayed the repair even further. And when more faults were found, the garage 
decided the cost involved was too high, so it decided to replace the engine. That meant 
there was a further delay in getting a new engine and fitting it. I can understand Mr As frustration with the time taken to return his car. But I think much of 
the delay between January and June was due to factors outside UKIs control. As Ive said, 
the initial decision to repair rather than replace the engine was rightly one for UKI to take, 
and that seemed reasonable at the time. And I dont think UKI could have predicted the 
repairs wouldnt work. The time and money it spent on trying to repair the engine would 
indicate it firmly believed it could be repaired. So, while it undoubtedly took a long time for 
UKI to return Mr As car to him, I dont think it would be fair to hold UKI responsible for much 
of the delay caused in this period.
Period between June and September 2022
Unfortunately for Mr A, there were still problems with the car when it was returned to him in 
June 2022. His car had to be taken to another garage (garage T) to be repaired and he 
didnt get it back until September 2022, about 12 weeks later. Could this further delay have 
been avoided? Mr A identified the fault soon after it was returned to him, so I think its fair to 
say garage S should have noted the problem with the thermostat before the car was 
returned. But, had it done so, that wouldnt necessarily have meant Mr A got his car back 
any sooner. Its likely garage S would have run into the same problems garage T faced in 
terms of part shortages, which caused that garage to delay the repair. That said, had garage 
S identified the issue and repaired it itself, it would have meant Mr A would have avoided the 
delays in having to take the car to another garage and avoided the problems he had liaising 
with UKI and the other garages when he was trying to get someone to take responsibility for 
the problems hed identified. 
Mr A says he was also inconvenienced by not having his car during this period. UKI said that 
as garage T had agreed the fault was covered under its warranty, that garage should have 
been responsible for providing a courtesy car. While that may be the case, it was aware that 
garage T didnt have a courtesy car available for Mr A to use. And I think UKI should take 
some responsibility for the inconvenience he was put through during this period. He said he 
had use of his wifes car for some of that time and he could use buses free of charge. But he 
did need to travel on trains from time to time due to the absence of his car. He thought the 
cost of doing so was probably around £100, but no more than £200. 
UKI apologised for the upset, distress and inconvenience Mr A had experienced and paid 
him £300 in September 2022 to say sorry. Should UKI do anything more to put things right? 
On balance, I dont think so. Let me explain why.
Theres no doubt the poor service and delays by UKI had a considerable impact on Mr A and 
caused a significant amount of inconvenience and disruption. He said he was stressed by 
not being in control of things. And he said he was inconvenienced by not being able to do 
things when he wanted to. It was right that UKI compensate Mr A for the poor service it 
provided. And over the whole period his car was being repaired, UKI paid Mr A a total of 
£480. Theres no doubt he had to wait longer than he should have done to get his car back 
due to the poor service provided by UKI. Its communication with Mr A was poor at times as 
well, particularly when it failed to keep him updated on progress and he had to continuously 
repeat himself when he contacted UKI. But I think its only fair to also take account of the fact 
that much of the delay was due to delays in getting the parts it needed to repair the car. 
I note that Mr A is keen to sell his car and hes frustrated that this has been delayed because 
he had to get a new V5 certificate due to his engine being changed. As Ive said, I think it 
was reasonable for UKI to decide to repair his engine, and then to replace it. So, while I can 
understand Mr As frustration, I dont think it would be fair to say he had to get a new V5 
certificate due to any failings on the part of UKI. 
So, taking all of this together, I think the total amount of £480 UKI paid Mr A was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I recognise Mr A will be disappointed with this but, in light 
of the above, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask UKI to do anything differently. 
My final decision
UK Insurance Limited has paid Mr A a total of £480 to settle the complaint and I think that 
amount is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman