DRN-4140552
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc sent him marketing material. He thinks Santanders 
actions constitute a breach of General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
What happened
Mr L holds an account with Santander. Despite having opted out of email contact for 
marketing material, Mr L received some. So, he complained.
 
In response, Santander wrote to Mr L and acknowledged that something had gone wrong. It 
explained that a small number of emails had been sent when they shouldnt have been. To 
resolve things, Santander apologised for the error and, further, it also confirmed that further 
measures had been taken to ensure the issue didnt reoccur. Finally, it paid Mr L £75 in 
compensation to reflect the inconvenience it had caused.
 
Mr L remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint about Santander to our service. He 
said, in summary, that he takes it very seriously when his data privacy is breached. An 
investigator here looked at what had happened and, upon review, he felt that Santander had 
done enough to put things right. He said:
Santander had acknowledged its mistake and apologised for it.
The bank had confirmed that no personal details  other than Mr Ls name  had 
been included in the marketing material, and there was no indication that anything 
had been sent to an unauthorised third party.
Santander had put extra measures in place to ensure this issue didnt happen again.
In the circumstances, £75 was a fair and reasonable amount of compensation to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by Santanders error. 
Mr L didnt agree. He maintained that Santander had broken GDPR rules and that, had his 
personal data fallen into the hands of hackers, the consequences couldve been much more 
severe. Overall, Mr L felt Santander hadnt treated the matter with the importance it required 
and nor did he believe £75 in compensation was enough. So, he asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
 
As no agreement has been reached, Mr Ls complaint about Santander has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its significant to explain, at the outset, that our role is to provide an informal dispute 
resolution service. Thats important to stress because, while I understand Mr Ls frustration 
at what happened, it means there are limits to what we can do. We arent regulators and we 
dont have the powers of a regulator to, for example, fine or punish a business.
 
Moreover, crucially in a complaint such as this, I cant say whether theres been a breach of 
GDPR  thats a matter for a court or the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). What I 
can do here is consider whether Santander treated Mr L fairly and if its done enough to put 
matters right.
 
Theres no dispute that Santander did make an error. Mr L shouldnt have been sent a 
marketing email and I can understand why it would worry him to receive one. Mr L has also 
pointed out that things couldve been much more severe had any of his personal data fallen 
into the hands of an unauthorised third party.
 
While I think Mr Ls vigilance around his personal data is well placed, from what Ive seen, 
thats a hypothetical scenario and not factually what happened here. Theres nothing to show 
that Santanders mistake did cause Mr Ls personal data to fall into the hands of someone 
else or that it caused him a financial loss.
 
Santander has shown that it identified Mr L as a customer who had opted out of such 
marketing emails, and its also confirmed that its taken steps to reduce the risk of such an 
error reoccurring. Thats certainly the right thing to do in the circumstances and Im pleased 
to see the bank recognised its error and took steps to fix it.
 
That said, I do think it right of Santander to have compensated Mr L for the distress and 
inconvenience its error caused. To that end, in the circumstances, I think the £75 its already 
paid is enough. So, I wont be asking Santander to pay anything more.
 
Overall, I think Santander has taken reasonable steps in the circumstances to compensate 
Mr L for the upset and inconvenience caused and to reassure him that his data is safe. It 
follows that I dont require it to take any further action. Should Mr L wish to contact the ICO 
further about Santanders obligations under GDPR then he is, of course, free to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman