DRN-4353959
The complaint
Mr C  complains about the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC in respect of his 
current account.
What happened
On 1 July 2022, Mr C tried to make a debit card payment of more than £9,000. The payment 
was then blocked by Lloyds. Mr C says he received text messages from Lloyds to confirm he 
made the payment. Mr C replied in the affirmative, but the payment was still not processed.
Mr 
C called Lloyds to resolve the matter. Lloyds initially told him that it had not declined a 
transaction and Mr C asked to speak to a manager. The call was then cut off. Mr C called 
back and was eventually transferred to the fraud team where the block on the transaction 
was lifted. Mr C called Lloyds back later that day to log a complaint.
Following that, Mr C called Lloyds again to make further complaints that a manager had not 
returned his calls and about the length of time he had spent on the phone to Lloyds.
On 19 July 2022, further payments were declined from Mr C's account because the two-step 
verification process had not been completed. Also on 19 July 2022, Lloyds issued a final 
response letter and offered to pay £63 to Mr C to settle his complaint. This offer comprised 
£50 in compensation and £13 to cover his call costs.
Mr C  did not accept what Lloyds had offered. He believed his complaint had been re-opened 
following his conversation with Lloyds on 19 July 2023. There followed several lengthy calls 
between Mr C  and Lloyds over several months with Mr C trying to establish the status of his 
dispute.
Further final response letters were issued to Mr C on 21 September 2022, 4 October 2022, 9 
November 2022 and 21 December 2022 respectively. In summary, Lloyds requested an 
itemised telephone bill to make sure Mr C wasnt out of pocket. It then offered to pay a 
further £60 to cover the cost of those calls, bringing its offer of compensation to £123 in total.
In the meantime, Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator said he thought Lloyds 
offer of £123 to Mr C was fair. He thought Mr C could have called his Lloyds complaint 
handler directly, which would have mitigated some of the calls he had to make to Lloyds.
Mr C  didnt agree with our investigators view and so the matter was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. I asked our investigator to obtain the call recordings between Mr C 
and Lloyds and I listened to all of those recordings. 
Having done so, I issued a provisional decision in this matter because I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. I said: 
The first thing Ive considered is whether it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to 
block transactions on Mr C's account. 
Lloyd s blocked a transaction on 1 July 2022 because of concerns around potential 
fraud on Mr C's account.
I appreciate the blocked transaction caused Mr C some inconvenience. But I dont 
think Lloyds was at fault in declining this payment until it could be confirmed it had 
been made by Mr C. I know it was frustrating for Mr C, particularly when he thought 
he had alleviated Lloyds concerns 
by text message. But Lloyds decided it needed to 
speak to Mr C by phone to be assured that the payments were genuine. Given that 
this was a significant transaction, I think it was fair for Lloyds to take those steps to 
protect Mr C's account.
A further transaction was declined later in July because Mr C did not complete the 
two-step authentication. Again, I cant say Lloyds was wrong to decline those 
transactions if its security requirements had not been met.
That said, I think the service Mr C received from Lloyds thereafter was confused, 
unclear and unnecessarily lengthy.
Listening to calls between Mr C and Lloyds, it is clear Mr C was very distressed by 
the situation and his dealings with Lloyds. I note Mr C informed Lloyds that he was 
caring for a family 
member who was very unwell. He later told Lloyds that a family 
member had died. Across several calls, Mr C said he has a number of health 
conditions that affect his ability to speak to Lloyds for a long time on the phone. 
However, Lloyds did not acknowledge or appear to understand Mr C's obvious 
distress or his potential vulnerability.
During one call lasting for almost an hour, Mr C was enquiring why a manager had 
not contacted him 
when he believed such a call had been promised. Mr C specifically 
told Lloyds that he had health issues and he struggled with lengthy telephone calls. 
Mr C indicated he wanted to make a new complaint but requested a call back from 
Lloyds because he was in difficulty with his health. Lloyds refused to call him back 
and said he needed to remain on hold for the complaint to be set up. The call handler 
then placed Mr C  on hold for around half an hour immediately after he said he would 
have health difficulties if he was on hold again.
None of the call handlers Mr C spoke to appeared to explore whether Lloyds needed 
to adapt its service to meet Mr C's  stated needs. On the contrary, Lloyds appears to 
have stuck to its process. In the many calls Mr C made to Lloyds, he was cut off on 
several occasions  usually after he had asked to speak to a manager. He then had 
to call Lloyds back and start the process of explaining his situation all over again. I 
can see why this would have been difficult for Mr C and why it caused him some 
frustration.
As I said above, Mr C  made Lloyds aware that he had ongoing health concerns and 
he was feeling overwhelmed and stressed in his encounters with Lloyds. He 
repeatedly described having to call Lloyds as torture. Mr C was also clear that he 
was caring for a very unwell family member and that later, he had suffered a 
bereavement. In a situation such as this, I think it would have been fair for Lloyds to 
respond flexibly to what could have helped Mr C.
The evidence before me does not suggest that Lloyds took any account of Mr C's 
needs. I can see why Mr C was confused about what was happening with his 
complaint. 
He was repeatedly told that his complaint had been closed and then told it 
had been re-opened. At one point, when he expressed concern about how many 
times hed had to call Lloyds, the call handler said that the reason for the lengthy 
calls was because Mr C  kept staying on the phone line. I dont think it was fair for Lloyds to say this to Mr C.
In one of its final response letters, 
Lloyds also said that it had given Mr C the direct 
telephone numbe r for hi s complaint handler. It said that if he had called that number 
directly, the call s he made to Lloyds would not have been so lengthy. I can see the 
final response letters do contain the direct number of the complaint handler. 
However, if it would have been helpful for Mr C to speak to the complaint handler 
directly, it is not clear to me why he was not transferred to that number when he 
called Lloyds general helpline. It is also not clear why Mr C was not told that he 
should speak to the complaint handler when he called.
Although I appreciate the complaint handlers phone number was set out in the final 
response letters, I dont think it would have been unreasonable for Lloyds to notify Mr 
C when he called that he should speak to the complaint handler instead.
There was further confusion as to the itemised telephone bill Lloyds asked Mr C to 
provide. It seems to me that what Lloyds was seeking from Mr C was a breakdown of 
the call costs he had incurred. Instead of making that clear, Lloyds requested an 
itemised bill from him. I can see why Mr C interpreted this as Lloyds seeking a record 
of when he had called it. Mr C went to some lengths to obtain a full log of the calls he 
made to Lloyds.
I dont think it was necessary for Lloyds to require an itemised bill. I say this because 
one of the issues Mr C was unhappy with was the amount of time it had taken for him 
to speak to Lloyds. As far as I can see, he was not seeking reimbursement of his call 
costs, but compensation fo r the inconvenience he had been put to b y virtu e of the 
repeated calls he made to Lloyds.
With all this in mind, Im provisionally satisfied that it was fair for Lloyds to decline Mr 
C's transactions. But in its subsequent customer service, Lloyds did not take account 
of the difficult personal circumstances Mr C repeatedly told it about. Its general 
communication appears to have been confusing and lengthy. In all the 
circumstances, Im satisfied Lloyds needs to take action to put things right for Mr C.
I know Mr C told us about what he would usually be paid for his professional time. 
However, as this complaint has been brought in Mr C's  personal capacity, I dont 
think it would be fair to require Lloyds to pay an amount equivalent to his professional 
fees here.
That said, it is clear that Mr C was distressed by his interactions with Lloyds at what 
was clearly a very difficult time. I 
think that distress was exacerbated because Lloyds 
did not adapt its customer service to take account of those difficult circumstances. 
With all of this in mind, my provisional view is that it would be fair for Lloyds to pay 
£300 in compensation to Mr C.
Both Mr C  and Lloyds responded to my provisional decision to say they agreed with what I 
said. Lloyds clarified that it had already paid £123 to Mr C and so £177 would be left to 
pay.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So, for the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds to take action to put things right for Mr C. 
Putting 
things right
Lloyds is required to pay £300 to Mr C to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience I identified above. I understand Lloyds has paid £123 to Mr C already in 
connection with this matter. Accordingly, it may deduct that amount from the £300 
compensation I have directed. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to put things right as I have set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman