DRN-4457529
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank Plc will not refund payments he says he did not make. 
What happened
Between January and June 2022 a series of transfers and card payments were made from 
Mr Cs Lloyds accounts. These were either transfers to Mr Cs brother, Mr D, or card 
payments to online gambling sites and totalled over £194,000.
Mr C says that he had been locked out of his online banking in around April 2022, and had 
also lost his card for his main current account in May 2022. He says that when he reordered 
a new debit card and was unable to get it to work he visited a branch and discovered the 
payments that had been made. Mr C believes that Mr D gained access to his online banking 
and was making the payments to fund gambling.
Lloyds reviewed the disputed withdrawals, but did not agree that there was evidence to show 
they had not been authorised, so it declined to refund them to Mr C.
Mr C maintains that he did not make these withdrawals. He reported Mr D to the police and 
says that Mr D had also opened accounts in Mr Cs name without his consent at other 
banking institutions. Mr C was able to recover around £55,000 from Mr D but would like 
Lloyds to reimburse him for the remainder of his loss.
Our Investigator looked into what had happened. They felt it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
conclude that Mr C had more than likely authorised the payments or otherwise allowed them 
to be made. So they therefore did not recommend that Lloyds refund the payments to Mr C.
Mr C maintains that Mr D made the payments without his knowledge or permission. So as no 
agreement could be reached this case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks
will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Mr C made the disputed payments himself or
authorised them to be made on his behalf, it would not be fair to ask Lloyds to refund
them.
I cant say with certainty exactly what happened here. But the key issue I have to
consider is whether Lloyds can reasonably hold Mr C responsible for these transactions 
because there is adequate evidence to suggest he authorised them himself or allowed them 
to be made. And with the evidence Ive seen, I believe Lloyds can.
Ive thought very carefully about how Mr C has said he thinks Mr D could have accessed his 
online banking to make the payments, but I agree with our Investigators findings that there 
is not a plausible point of compromise here. Mr C has said that he did not use biometrics on 
his phone, meaning that he didnt use fingerprint ID or face ID. Many of the payments in 
dispute here were authorised using biometrics. But if it was Mr D that had set up biometrics 
on the banking app then he would have needed multiple pieces of Mr Cs security 
information in order to do so, including details like the PIN for the phone, Mr Cs mobile 
banking passwords, and Mr Cs memorable information. Mr C has said that he tended to use 
information based on his fathers name and date of death for those security details, and that 
Mr D could have guessed that information. But given that there are numerous different 
combinations of that data which Mr C could have used, and that there do not appear to have 
been any incorrect entries recorded around the time of the payments, this does not seem to 
me to be plausible. And Mr C has said his security details were not written down anywhere, 
so I cannot see a plausible explanation as to how Mr D would have been able to accurately 
guess all this information, on the first try, unless the security details had been shared with 
him by Mr C.
In addition, there are other features of what has happened here that I think do give cause for 
concern. Specifically:
- That there have been inconsistencies in what Mr C has said about whether he did or 
didnt make the payments to his mother during the period of the disputed payments. 
Mr C has said to us that he didnt make the payments to his mother, but he told the 
police that he had made them. I appreciate Mr C says now that he didnt want to get 
his mother in trouble but weve nonetheless not seen any explanation for why these 
payments would have been made to Mrs C. 
- Mr C has also told us he had no knowledge of the second current account that the 
payments to Mr D were made from, but when he discussed it with Lloyds he did 
seem to be aware of it and did not say it was an account he hadnt opened or that he 
had been unaware of it until recently. It seems that this is something he would have 
mentioned to the bank if it was the case that he had not opened the account himself.
With all this in mind Im satisfied that it is reasonable for Lloyds to have found that Mr C more 
likely than not did authorise the payments in dispute here, or otherwise allow them to be 
made. Ive not seen anything to make me think it would be fair to hold Lloyds responsible for 
the loss Mr C is claiming. It follows that Lloyds is therefore entitled to hold Mr C liable for the 
disputed payments, and so I wont be asking Lloyds to refund any of the payments in dispute 
here.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr C, but I hope he will understand the reasons for 
my decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Sophie MitchellOmbudsman