DRN-1741998
The complaint
Miss B complains that esure Insurance Limited opened a claim against her on her motor 
insurance policy when she had no involvement. 
What happened
esure contacted Miss B to tell her that it had been alleged shed been involved in an 
accident. Miss B denied this and esure arranged for an independent assessor to inspect her 
car ten days later. He sent his report for esure to view the next day. Miss B also sent esure a 
letter from the police saying shed not been involved. But it took esure a further month to 
remove the fault marker from Miss Bs record. She said that shed not been able to travel to 
work and had to take out more expensive insurance because of this.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esure 
should have acted more quickly to remove the marker from Miss Bs record. To put things 
right, he thought esure should pay Miss B £100 compensation, remove records of the fault 
and provide Miss B with a letter saying that the claim had been opened in error and she 
wasnt at fault. This was so that her new insurer could rerate her policy. 
esure replied that it had to keep the claim open until the other insurer had told it that it 
agreed to drop it. It said it had to keep the claim open in the meantime to protect Miss Bs 
interests.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been a frustrating and upsetting experience for Miss B. Shes 
told us that her cars number plates were cloned, and she received various fines which were 
nothing to do with her. Shes also explained that esure cancelled her policy due to a missed 
payment, but she hasnt complained about that. 
esure said it had to open a claim when it was notified of allegations by another insurer. I 
think thats fair and reasonable. It said it then had to prove that Miss B wasnt involved, so it 
instructed an independent assessor to inspect her car. Again, I think this was a reasonable 
step to take to prove to the other insurer that Miss B wasnt involved in the alleged incident.
Miss B had received various fines and she told esure she thought her plates had been 
cloned. But I think esure still needed to establish that Miss B wasnt involved in the alleged 
incident. 
Ive seen the independent assessors report. It concludes that there is damage to Miss Bs 
car, which she said was long-standing. It says the other car should be inspected for 
consistency.
esure has told us that it received this report two days after the inspection. It said it forwarded 
the report to the other insurer, with a request to inspect the other car, the following day. But I 
can see from its records that it told the other insurer on this day that Miss B denied 
involvement. It didnt send the independent assessors report until two weeks later. I think 
this caused an avoidable delay in closing the claim. I cant see that it received a response to 
this request. 
Miss B then told esure that shed received a letter from the police saying that it had 
recovered a stolen car with her number plates. She gave esure the crime reference number. 
Miss B also made it clear that the open claim was affecting her ability to obtain new 
insurance. Miss B sent in a copy of the letter from the police. From esures file, I cant see 
that it sent this letter on to the other insurer for it to consider.
esure told Miss B, in response to her complaint, that it had kept the claim open until it was 
able to prove she wasnt involved. It said this was after it had reviewed the assessors report. 
esure told Miss B the claim had then been closed as opened in error and wouldnt show on 
any databases. 
But esure later told us that it had to keep the claim open until the other insurer agreed to not 
pursue it further. It provided a letter from the other insurer showing that this was received a 
further month after its response to Miss Bs complaint. I think this is inconsistent with what 
esure had earlier told Miss B. 
esure said it had told Miss B that it couldnt close the claim until the other insurer told it that it 
was no longer pursuing her. But I cant see this on its file. All I can see on file is that esure 
told Miss B that it had to keep the claim open until it could prove she wasnt involved. I think 
it should have known this when it received the police report. This was two weeks before it 
told Miss B the claim had been closed. 
So I think esure caused delays in keeping the claim open and these caused Miss B harm as 
she couldnt get affordable cover elsewhere in the meantime. Miss B wanted esure to 
recompense her for her lost income due to not being able to drive her car. But I cant 
reasonably require this as there may have been alternatives available for Miss B to mitigate 
her losses. And I think it was reasonable for esure to keep the claim open until it received 
the police letter.  
The investigator thought esure should compensate Miss B for not managing her 
expectations and for the level of service shed received. Miss B said shed been told that 
things would be put right on the day of the assessors inspection. She said she had to call 
repeatedly to find out what was happening so that she could get new insurance. I think £100 
compensation for this trouble and upset is in keeping with what Id award in similar 
situations.
Putting things right
I think esure should put things right for Miss B by paying her £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service. esure has told us that the claim is 
recorded as closed opened in error, which I think is fair and reasonable. But I think esure 
should provide Miss B with a letter to confirm this so that she can ask her new insurer to 
recalculate her premiums if they were affected by the open claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman