DRN-3618406
The complaint
Mr S complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to him when it 
shouldnt have done. He says he couldnt afford the loans.
What happened
Mr S was lent two loans by 118 118 Money. The adjudicator gave a detailed breakdown on 
the lending history and so I wont repeat that here.
Loan 2 was used to repay loan 1 and to provide further borrowing of £2,550, the information 
available shows theres still a balance outstanding on this loan.
118 118 Money didnt uphold Mr S complaint but when he referred it to this service, our 
adjudicator thought 118 118 Money lent both loans to Mr S when it shouldnt have.
As 118 118 Money didnt fully respond or agree with the adjudicators view, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
118 118 Moneys checks at the time of loan 1 showed Mr S was utilising two credit card 
accounts, one of which was over its credit limit. Mr S was also utilising the overdraft facility 
on his account. The results of the credit file showed Mr S had a loan with another high cost 
credit provider and repaying a car finance loan.
Bearing in mind Mr S use of credit 118 118 Money should have been curious about Mr S 
financial circumstances particularly as hed declared a large income but was still borrowing 
often. And so I think 118 118 Money should have taken its checks further.
A similar level of checks should have been carried out before lending loan 2. Mr S was 
borrowing to repay loan 1 and taking out further borrowing that was more than two and a half 
times his previous loan. Loan 2 was for 60 months, a significantly longer period than the first 
loan and the results of the credit search for this loan showed that Mr S was still using credit 
from different sources including multiple high cost credit lenders, credit cards, mail order 
account and the overdraft facility. Mr S had a delinquency recorded on his credit file about 
seven months before this loan. 
118 118 Money should have been looking to build a clear picture and gain a good 
understanding of Mr S financial circumstances before lending either one of these loans to 
him.
Mr S has provided copies of his bank statements from around the time of the loans which 
Ive used to reconstruct his circumstances at the time. From what I can see, Mr S living 
costs were significantly higher than hed declared to 118 118 Money, his rent for example 
was around £1,325 including his regular direct debit payments, transport, food and utilities 
hed have been paying over £2,000 for his living costs. Mr S was also due to pay around 
£902 towards his regular credit commitments including this loan  nearly a third of his 
income.
I can also see that Mr S was largely living in his overdraft and wasnt maintaining a credit 
balance without needing to borrow further. 
Overall, I dont think the lending was sustainable for Mr S and 118 118 Money shouldnt 
have lent and it needs to put things right.
Putting things right  what 118 118 Money needs to do
remove all interest and charges applied to both loans;
treat all payments made by Mr S as payments towards the capital amount of both 
loans;
if this results in an overpayment pay interest of 8% simple a year on any 
overpayments from the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
if theres still a balance outstanding, 118 118 Money should come to a suitable 
repayment arrangement with Mr S.
remove any negative information about the loans from Mr Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 Money 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman