DRN-3683814
The complaint
Mrs G complains that WDP Insurance Limited (WDP) failed to fix her phone and returned it 
with more damage.
What happened
Mrs G had mobile phone insurance underwritten by WDP. She claimed under her policy for a 
cracked screen and sent the phone to WDP for repair. WDP got in touch with her to say the 
phone was damaged more than shed reported so it would return it to her. On receipt of her 
phone, Mrs G found it wasn't working at all, so she complained to WDP. In the absence of 
any evidence of the phone damage when Mrs G first sent it to WDP, it didnt uphold her 
complaint.
Mrs G had the phone inspected by a third-party specialist, who reported that the phone 
mustve been opened to incur the damage seen. She sent the report and supporting photos 
to WDP, but it still denied responsibility for the damage. Mrs G sent copies of phone bills 
showing that the phone was in use right up to the day she sent it, but WDP maintained its 
view.
While WDP didnt think it had caused the damage, in an attempt to resolve Mrs Gs 
complaint, it offered to replace the phone, waive the excess and pay £25 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mrs G didnt think its offer was enough because she was still paying for the 
insurance and the phone contract, and shed been without a working phone for longer than 
necessary. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. She said that the evidence didnt confirm 
when the phone was damaged but, even so, WDP had offered to resolve the matter as if it 
had damaged the phone. Our investigator didnt think WDP needed to do any more.
Mrs G didnt agree. She said her phone bills were evidence that she had a working phone 
before she sent it to WDP, so the expert report was also evidence that the phone was 
working before she sent it. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs G will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The key issue of dispute is whether the phone was damaged to the extent seen in the 
photos before or after Mrs G sent it to WDP. Mrs G sent the following evidence to support 
her claim that WDP damaged the phone:
Phone bills showing usage right up to the date Mrs G sent the phone to WDP.
A specialist report saying that if the phone was working when sent, then the 
technician mustve caused the damage after they opened the phone back.
Photos of damage more extensive than a cracked screen.
The problem, here, is that while the evidence proves the damage is more than a cracked 
screen, it doesnt prove when it happened. While I have no reason to doubt Mrs Gs claim 
that the damage wasn't as extensive when she sent it, nor do I have any reason to doubt 
WDPs claim that the phone arrived in that condition.
The specialist report, while concluding the extent of damage, doesnt conclude that WDP 
caused that damage. The report specifically states, 
if the device was sent with a still working display albeit with cracked glass, then this 
damage must have taken place either at the point of initially removing or re-attaching 
the top flex by a technician.
I must stress that the specialist has only concluded on the damage, not who caused it.
Looking at the phone bills, theres no evidence that the calls were made using the same 
handset. The usage is attached to the phone SIM rather than the handset. Evidence may be 
available to show usage on the same device, but Mrs G hasnt provided anything to 
demonstrate that. Therefore, usage right up to the date Mrs G sent the phone to WDP 
doesnt categorically prove that the handset was working.
So, for the reasons Ive explained and based on the evidence available, I cant fairly say 
WDP caused the damage to Mrs Gs phone.
With all this said, if the evidence did show that the damage was caused after Mrs G sent it to 
WDP, Ive thought about what I wouldve required. Id have expected WDP to replace Mrs 
Gs phone and waive the policy excess. Id also consider compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
WDP has already offered to replace the phone, waive the policy excess and pay £25 
compensation for the delays. I find that a reasonable offer.
I understand Mrs G wants more because she still paid for her insurance and she was without 
a phone. Mrs G would always have been without a phone for a while because shed cracked 
the screen and it needed to be repaired. I cant reasonably say WDP caused any avoidable 
delay returning her phone.
As for the phone contract, while Mrs G may still be paying, she will not be paying any more 
than she wouldve done before the matter in hand. I see no reason to ask WDP to do 
anything in respect of this issue.
Overall, I havent seen any evidence to prove that the damage happened to Mrs Gs phone 
after she sent it to WDP, yet it has offered to resolve the matter by taking the action I 
wouldve expected if it had caused the damage. Therefore, I dont think theres anything 
more WDP need do in respect of this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman