DRN-3706991
The complaint
Miss T complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund money that she says she lost to a scam. 
Miss T is represented by a firm Ill refer to as R.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Miss T purchased three construction vehicles for $50,000 from a merchant based outside of 
the UK, with delivery also to another country outside of the UK. The purchase agreement 
shows Miss T was required to pay 30% initially, 50% when the shipping vessel was booked 
and the final 20% paid when the Bill of Lading (BoL) was issued. 
Miss T made the following payments from her TSB account to the merchant via another firm 
(firm B) that specialises in currency exchange and international payments:
Date Type Amount
20 May 2020 Faster payment £12,278.55
28 May 2020 Faster payment £12,213.34
9 July 2021 Faster payment £15,292.44
Total: £39,784.33
Upon delivery, the vehicles were seized by the relevant port authority due to their age. A 
seizure letter provided to Miss T said that vehicles entering the country shouldnt be over 10 
years old. And that based on the BoL and other documents, two of the vehicles were shown 
to be manufactured in 2018 with the other in 2016. Upon further inspection however, the 
vehicles were manufactured in 2009.
Miss T had to pay port fees totalling $39,995.78  consisting of a tax bill of $30,712.78 and 
combined penalty payments of $9,283  to release the vehicles. Miss T also spent a further 
$23,133 on attempting to repair the vehicles due to them not being in a useable condition. 
In April 2022 R complained to TSB, on Miss Ts behalf, about their decision not to refund the 
above payments and subsequent costs incurred. In short, they said:
Miss T fell victim to a purchase scam for expensive construction equipment. She was 
looking for specific brands of equipment of an age less than ten years old (due to the 
countrys regulations). And she was told by the merchant the vehicles were made in 
2016 and 2018, and that they were in great condition. Pictures of the vehicles were 
sent to Miss T that matched her expectations and so she made the payments. 
The vehicles received though were neither of the age or condition expected. 
Inspections carried out showed they were dismantled and in an unusable condition. 
Miss T tried to repair the vehicles but they were too damaged and never worked. 
The merchant blocked Miss T when she contacted them about the matter. They said 
there wasnt anything wrong with what was sent. 
Miss T should be refunded under TSBs fraud refund guarantee. The merchant sent 
fake pictures and videos of the vehicles, as what arrived was completely different 
(old, broken and beyond repair). They also sent invoices that lied about the age and 
make of the vehicles. So, the merchant intended to deceive and trick Miss T into 
purchasing broken vehicles. And this type of scam works in this way as its how the 
scammer gets the bill of shipment and BoL. 
TSB also ought to have identified these payments as being out of character for 
Miss T, triggering them to stop and question the payments. Had TSB done so, they 
wouldve identified Miss T was at risk of being scammed  as she was paying an 
upfront fee for goods via an insecure payment method  and couldve educated her 
about how purchase scams work. Miss T wouldnt have proceeded and so the fraud 
wouldve been prevented. 
TSBs failure to intervene and protect Miss T means theyre responsible for all loss, 
including port and repair fees.  
TSB didnt uphold the complaint. They said Miss T should raise a claim with firm B. This was 
because the payments from her TSB account were sent to firm B, for the currency to be 
exchanged, before it was sent to the merchants account. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman but our investigator didnt think 
TSB had to do anything further. She said banks arent obligated to protect customers against 
the risk of bad bargains or civil disputes. And generally, in the case of scams, its reasonable 
to expect an illegitimate company to be involved and for goods/services not to be provided at 
all (and for there not to have been any intention of providing it). Here, goods were provided 
to Miss T albeit not what she expected. She didnt think there was clear intent from the 
merchant to defraud. Instead, she considered this to be a civil dispute with the merchant.
Our investigator said the payments wouldnt be covered under TSBs fraud refund guarantee 
as it doesnt include purchase disputes. And, even if TSB had questioned Miss T about the 
payments, she wasnt sure this wouldve made a difference. This is because the information 
she wouldve given TSB  such as the reasons for the payments, how she found the supplier 
and the research conducted  wouldnt have given cause for concern as Miss T was 
convinced it was a genuine purchase. So, its most likely Miss T wouldve gone ahead with 
the payments anyway. Our investigator further explained that the port and repair fees were 
paid to legitimate third parties and so not to the merchant. 
R disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, theyve added:
They disagree this is a case of a bad bargain or a civil dispute between Miss T and 
the merchant. Instead, they consider the merchant had an intent to defraud Miss T 
from the outset. And just because goods were received by Miss T, doesn't 
automatically make it a civil matter.
Although Miss T did receive goods, this was done to extract as much money from her as possible. The merchant sent scrap versions of the vehicles ordered to make it 
appear as though what Miss T purchased had been shipped. Thereby inducing 
further payments such as when the BoL was issued. 
Despite having a fraud refund guarantee, TSB failed to investigate thoroughly and 
refund Miss T when the scam was reported to them. As such, Miss T had no 
alternative but to attempt to (unsuccessfully) repair the goods and get them in 
working order. Therefore, but for TSB's error, Miss T wouldnt have incurred these 
costs and so TSB should be liable for them too. 
Theres no need to consider whether the payments were unusual or not because 
TSB has a fraud refund guarantee. 
Im aware R has also referred to other decision(s) made by the Financial Ombudsman that 
they consider relevant to Miss Ts complaint. Ive taken this into consideration but Id like to 
point out each complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im 
required to do, Ive looked solely at the individual circumstances of Miss Ts complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, consumers are generally liable for 
payments they authorise. TSB is expected to process authorised payment instructions 
without undue delay. As a bank, they also have long-standing obligations to help protect 
customers from financial harm from fraud and scams. But those are predicated on there 
having been a fraud or scam. So, to start, Ive considered whether Miss T was a victim of a 
scam.
From what Ive seen, it seems that the vehicles Miss T received were different to what she 
expected. But theres a high legal threshold for determining fraud. And, for Miss T to have 
been the victim of a scam, Id have to be satisfied that the merchant was intent on 
defrauding her from the outset. Ive given this careful consideration but I dont think I can say 
that is what most likely happened here. Ill explain why.
Typically, in the circumstances of a purchase scam, the scammer is unlikely to provide any 
goods or services to the buyer upon receipt of the funds. In this case however, Im aware 
that R argue the only reason goods were provided  albeit they consider the vehicles to have 
been junk  was so that the scammers could induce further payments from Miss T. This 
was by tricking Miss T into thinking genuine items were being sent, through the use of 
shipping documents such as the BoL, to prompt her to send further funds at the relevant 
stages of the shipping process.
Ive given this careful thought. And, while Ive noted Rs points on this, I think its unlikely 
construction vehicles  of any quality  wouldve been sent had there been an intent to 
defraud from the outset. I say this because, even if the vehicles loaded on to the shipping 
containers werent of the quality Miss T expected, this wouldve taken considerable effort on 
the merchants part. There wouldve been a financial, as well as time, cost to the merchant 
as they had to acquire the vehicles, arrange shipping and then load them on to the 
containers.I think its also relevant to add that  as per the purchase agreement  80% of the costs 
were to be paid at the point shipping was booked. And so, prior to the vehicles being loaded 
and the BoL being issued. Its unclear why Miss T paid different amounts to those set out in 
the purchase agreement. But, if there was a clear intent to defraud, I think its more likely the 
merchant wouldve sought the 80% payment from Miss T by arranging shipping but then not 
sent any vehicles. I consider it unlikely; if it was a scam, the merchant wouldve gone to the 
considerable effort of loading vehicles onto a shipping container for the agreed final payment 
(which shouldve been considerably smaller, only 20%).
Im aware that R says the vehicles received were heavily damaged and not representative of 
the photos provided by the merchant when the sale was agreed. And that the vehicles were 
older than what Miss T expected with the original chassis plates removed and replaced with 
fake ones (according to the examiners at the port). 
Although I appreciate Miss Ts strength of feeling that she was a victim of a scam, the 
purchase agreement doesnt confirm the age of the vehicles. There also isnt any video 
evidence showing the condition of the vehicles entering the shipping containers and them 
being unloaded. I therefore cant be sure whether damage occurred during transit, or if there 
was any third-party interference while being transported. And, even if I was to accept the 
chassis plates had been switched, I dont think  based on what Ive seen  I can reasonably 
conclude that the merchant sold the vehicles knowing this. Its possible they were sold to 
Miss T in good faith that they were manufactured in 2016 and 2018.
So, after taking everything into careful consideration, on balance, I cant safely say this 
meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Instead, and while I know R 
disagree, this appears to be a case of a purchase dispute and not a scam. The TSB fraud 
refund guarantee has the following exclusion:
The guarantee doesnt cover purchase disputes, where you pay for something with 
your TSB account and the goods or services dont meet your expectations. This 
could be if the item arrives differently to how it was described But, if you feel youve 
been misled by the seller, you may be able to claim under the chargeback rules or 
the Consumer Credit Act, if you used a debit card or credit card.
Given Im satisfied this is a purchase dispute, and not a scam, I consider this applies here. 
TSB werent therefore obligated to refund the payments under this guarantee. 
As Ive said, TSB has obligations to protect their customers from financial harm from fraud 
and scams. As Ive concluded there wasnt a scam to prevent here, there was no reason for 
TSB to intervene in the payment instructions Miss T provided (or done more prior to 
following the instructions). 
I know this isnt the outcome Miss T is hoping for but, for the above reasons, I dont think 
TSB has to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Daniel O'DellOmbudsman