DRN-1649424
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) hasnt reinstated his online and telephone 
banking access after blocking it for security reasons.
What happened
Mr A called HSBC to update the address on his current account. The call disconnected 
several times meaning he had to keep calling back. The agent told Mr A he hadnt passed 
the security checks so he would need to visit a branch to provide photo identification. Mr A 
explained that he was in another country and the agent gave details of a branch there. 
HSBC suspended online and telephone access to his account to prevent any fraudulent 
activity.
Mr A complained to HSBC. It responded to say why it had suspended the account and gave 
Mr A instructions on how to get his account access reset. He needed to visit a branch in the 
country where he was staying, show photo ID, and ask the branch to call HSBC UK to have 
the security reset. As a gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience of having to visit a branch, 
HSBC paid £50 into Mr As account.
Mr A wasnt happy with HSBCs response.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She didnt think it was unreasonable for HSBC 
to block access to the account if it had concerns about security, and she noted it was in line 
with the terms and conditions. Our investigator thought HSBC had provided appropriate 
advice for Mr A to regain access to his account and there was no indication that HSBC had 
disconnected the calls with Mr A. She saw that HSBC paid Mr A £50 for the inconvenience 
of having to visit a branch, which she felt was fair in the circumstances.
Mr A didnt agree. He said he wasnt in another country at the time his online and telephone 
access was blocked and that the agent he spoke to hadnt understood him properly. He also 
raised further issues of complaint regarding the same account.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. While I realise hell be disappointed with my 
decision, Im satisfied that HSBCs actions were fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
First, I must make it clear that my decision is about the complaint Mr A brought to this 
service about online and telephone banking. There have been further issues since our initial 
investigation, but HSBC must first have an opportunity to resolve those matters.
Also, I should point out that in his submission to our service and in his calls to HSBC, Mr A 
said he was out of the country. He later said he wasnt. However, I dont think his location 
has a significant bearing on the complaint, so I wont make any detailed comment on that 
point.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr A and HSBC when he first contacted it to update his 
address. Its clear to me that the agent wasnt satisfied with Mr As responses to security 
questions - the address he gave didnt match the one it held on record, and he wasnt calling 
from a registered number.  So, I think it was reasonable for HSBC to suspend access to the 
account until it could be satisfied that it was Mr A trying to update details. This is in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account which state:
15. Blocking your payments and services
We can block any payment device (and your access to related services such as Telephone, 
Mobile and Online Banking) if we reasonably believe its necessary because:
of a significantly increased risk that you wont be able to repay any money you owe 
us;
we suspect fraud or criminal use of the payment device; or
of security concerns we have (eg if we know or suspect your security details and/or 
the payment device have been misused).
If we do this, well usually let you know why straight after, unless were prevented by law or 
any regulation or for security reasons. Well unblock the payment device as soon as the 
reason for blocking it ends.
Mr A complained that HSBC didnt reinstate online and telephone access to his account. He 
says this was of particular inconvenience because he was out of the country. I can 
understand that he wouldve been frustrated by this added inconvenience. However, I dont 
think HSBC wouldve been acting responsibly if it had reinstated access without going 
through the proper security checks. The checks are in place to minimise the risk of 
fraudulent activity on Mr As account and, therefore, for his protection.  And, as stated in the 
above terms, HSBC will unblock access only when the reason for it ends  that is, when it 
has completed identity verification. Having listened to the many calls between Mr A and 
HSBC, Im satisfied that it explained this to Mr A.
Ive looked at whether HSBC made unreasonable requests of him. I dont think it did. HSBC 
asked him to visit a branch with photo ID. It didnt have a verified signature on file so it 
wouldnt have been enough to ask for written confirmation of identity from Mr A. And he 
wasnt calling from a number it held for him on his account. For these reasons Im satisfied 
that asking him to visit a branch with photo ID was a reasonable request.
Mr A said he couldnt visit a branch because he was out of the country. I see that HSBC 
provided him with details of a branch in that same country. It also paid £50 into his account 
in recognition of the inconvenience of visiting a branch. I think that was helpful and I dont 
think HSBC needed to have done any more than that.
I understand that it mustve been frustrating for Mr A when his calls repeatedly disconnected. 
But I havent identified anything to indicate that HSBC purposely disconnected the calls. And 
theres no evidence to suggest the disconnected calls were anything other than a poor 
connecting line between Mr A and HSBC. I dont think HSBC did anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman