DRN-1551177
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with esure Insurance Limited (esure) about the way it dealt with a 
claim she submitted. Miss H says esures customer service has been poor and it hasn't kept 
her updated about the progress of her claim.
What happened
On 15 October 2018, Miss H contacted esure about damage that was caused to her 
car when shed returned to it in a car park. A note was left by a witness leaving details of 
the other car. On 18 October, esure sent communication to the other drivers insurer 
alleging their driver was at fault for the incident.
esure didn't contact the witness or try to obtain the name of the other driver until
31 January 2019. Following further chasers, esure received contact from the witness on
28 March 2019 and the witness form was completed and sent to esure on 10 April 2019.
The other drivers insurer didn't admit liability and said it looked like the witness had 
provided incorrect details. Their policy holder was female and had shown she was at work at 
the time of the incident. esure therefore instructed solicitors and Miss H was informed. 
esure contacted the solicitors in July 2019. But they confirmed they hadn't been able 
to proceed because they hadn't received the other drivers details. esure sent the details to 
the solicitors.
Miss H made a complaint to esure in September 2019. It apologised for the errors 
and refunded the £250 excess shed paid and escalated the complaint. A final response 
was issued in November 2019 apologising again for the errors and delays caused. 
esure confirmed that the solicitors had issued proceedings and were waiting for a court date. 
It also paid Miss H £150 compensation for the errors and delays.
Unhappy with esures final response, Miss H referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didn't think esure had done enough to 
progress the claim and delays were caused unnecessarily. He also thought esure hadn't 
done enough in keeping Miss H updated throughout the claim. As such, he 
recommended the compensation for distress and inconvenience should be increased to 
£400 from the £150 esure had already paid. This he thought should be as well as the £250 
excess which esure had refunded to Miss H.
esure didn't agree with the investigators assessment and asked for the complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman. So, the complaint was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 January 2020. I said I didn't think the increase in the 
offer from £150 to £400, recommended by the investigator, was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint. I thought it was fair that esure had refunded the £250 
excess to Miss H and also paid £150 compensation for the lack of communication and 
delays caused. 
Miss H responded to my provisional decision. In summary, she said she agreed esure hadn't 
provided the level of service it should have. But the lack of service had a huge impact on 
her, and she has had to get the claim to the right outcome. As a result of what happened, Miss H will lose her 'no claim bonus' and this will mean her insurance going forward will be 
more expensive. She feels esure was to blame for all of this because it didn't follow the right 
processes. 
esure said it had nothing further to add to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide here is whether the payment of £150 and the refund of the 
£250 excess is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
I've considered Miss H's further comments. I understand that Miss H has strong feelings 
about what happened and how esure has handled the claim. But, esure has acknowledged 
that it should have handled the claim better and it also could have avoided the delays 
caused. 
However, having weighed up everything, I'm satisfied the compensation esure has offered is 
fair and reasonable. Miss H has received a refund of her excess of £250 and also paid her 
£150 compensation. When looking at the offer of compensation for distress and  
inconvenience, the awards we recommend are modest and essentially depend on the impact 
caused. I understand that Miss H has told us this has had a huge impact on her. But I've 
taken this into account and understand that esure didn't need to refund the £250 excess. 
Overall, therefore, I think the £150 esure has paid to Miss H and the £250 excess that was 
refunded is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold Miss H's complaint against esure Insurance 
Limited. esure doesn't need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman