DRN-1547215
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the handling of a claim under the plumbing and drainage section of 
his insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited. 
What happened
British Gas dealt with a claim under the policy the claim regarding a leak from an outside 
pipe. I understand that British Gass contractors dug three or four holes around a metre deep 
in a paved area outside Mr Cs home but couldnt find the leak. In the end they re-routed the 
pipe using a moling device, rather than excavate any more ground. 
The leak was mended but Mr C was unhappy with the way his property was left. The 
contractors filled the holes with clay subsoil, which was left loose and uneven, and then after 
he complained, Mr C says the contractors came back unannounced and poured some sand 
on top. They refused to relay the block paving. Mr C says this sand will have to be dug out in 
order for the subsoil to be properly compacted down ready for blocks to be re-laid. Mr C also 
says that more excavation was done than should have been necessary and so, regardless of 
any policy terms, British Gas has a responsibility to put this right. 
British Gas says this was a complex leak and it could not be found by its contractors or the 
water supplier, so it resolved the problem with the least amount of digging possible by using 
a moling device. The contractors then backfilled the holes dug, with the subsoil that had 
been taken out and sand on top to leave a level surface, which is all it is obliged to do under 
the policy. It says it is not required to do anything more than this. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and decided that British Gas should compact 
the sand and subsoil, so there is a level service at the correct height for the blocks to be 
replaced. 
British Gas does not accept the investigators assessment. It says:
compacting the clay/sand would leave a tripping hazard, as the ground around the 
leak is saturated and so the soil will compact further when this dries out.
It cant prepare this ground to the liking of whichever contractor does the final re-
laying. It is a drainage company and does not specialise in landscaping. 
Its policy provides that it will fill in holes and leave the ground level. From the photos 
provided, it has done exactly that. 
The policy does not state or imply, that it will do anything over the top of this in 
preparing the ground for slabs to be re-laid directly on top. The preparation of the 
ground for paving is a specialist job.
If it took on the preparation of the ground for landscaping then this could lead to its 
contractors having to respond if there is a problem with the paving in the future, when 
this should be the responsibility of the pavers.
There is also a safety issue to consider, if it leaves the unpaved area at a lower depth 
than the remaining paved areas around it, then this is potentially leaving the 
customer with an uneven and unsafe area which could cause a tripping hazard. 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see for the papers provided to me that there was some difficulty in finding the source of 
the leak. While I can see this would have been frustrating and it might be that the leak could 
have been found sooner, with less damage, theres no convincing evidence of this. I cant 
therefore make a finding that the excavations completed were not reasonable. 
British Gas says its contractors fulfilled its obligations under the policy in levelling the 
excavations as best they could, in accordance with the policy terms. The relevant terms 
include that it will provide cover Up to £1,000, including VAT, for getting access and making 
good for each repair. 
Getting access and making good is defined in the policy as getting access to your boiler, 
appliance or system, and then repairing any damage we may cause in doing so, by replacing 
items such as cabinets or cupboards that weve removed and by filling in holes we have 
made and leaving a level surface - but we won't replace or restore the original surface or 
coverings, for example, tiles, floor coverings, decoration, grass or plants."
I agree with British Gas that this means it is not responsible for re-paving the excavated 
areas. However, I do not agree that filling the holes with any material is sufficient to meet the 
policy terms either. 
British Gas has said it cant leave an uneven surface, as it would be dangerous. However, it 
initially left the holes filled with loose uneven soil. It then put sand on top but this is still not a 
level, safe surface as far as I can see from the photos. The stones surrounding the 
excavated area are loose and uneven and the sand is not at the same level throughout. I 
dont see how a compacted but level surface, with a step up to the stones around it, would 
be any less safe.   
British Gas also says that it is a drainage expert and not landscapers. British Gas Insurance 
Limited is neither  it is an insurance company, which uses various specialist contractors to 
carry out work required as a result of an insurance claim. While it used drainage specialists 
to complete the repair to the drain, it does not mean they have to do the work required to put 
the excavations back. 
The policy terms say British Gas will make good any excavated areas but not put back the 
surface covering. In my opinion therefore it needs to prepare the ground for the stones to be 
re-laid. It is not required to do the final paving but should restore the base to how it was 
before. This would be by compacting the clay and sand layer on top. Otherwise, it has not 
been made good; instead it has just been filled with materials that will need to be extracted 
before Mr C can have the area properly made good and rectified. I consider that the terms require British Gas to fill in the holes made with the correct 
materials to the correct depths as far as it can, as a properly prepared base for the paving 
stones to be re-laid. Alternatively, British Gas can offer a suitable cash amount for Mr C to 
have this work done himself.  Alternatively if both parties prefer, British Gas can pay a cash 
settlement for Mr C to have this done by his own contractors. The amount would have to be 
agreed. 
I also consider that British Gas should pay £150 for the trouble this matter has caused Mr C. 
The site has been left unsightly for longer than necessary and this will have caused 
inconvenience and frustration.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to do the following: 
make good the excavated areas, by installing a suitable compacted base ready for 
the stones to be laid on top; and
pay Mr C the sum of £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its handling of this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman