DRN-1467203
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they werent told by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to change 
their life cover policy when they re-mortgaged.  
What happened
In 2004, Mr and Mrs H applied for life cover in respect of their mortgage, which was 
comprised of a £40,000 interest only element  protected by an endowment policy  and a 
£33,000 capital and interest repayment only element, for a term of 15 years. 
RBS recommended a level term assurance policy in respect of the £33,000 balance of their 
mortgage, also for a term of 15 years, which Mr and Mrs H accepted. 
In due course the endowment policy failed to pay off the interest only portion of their 
mortgage, so in 2013 they changed to a capital and interest repayment mortgage, borrowed 
an additional £15,000 and extended their mortgage term by an additional five years.    
Theyre unhappy that RBS didnt tell them that theyd need to amend their life cover as the 
current policy would no longer be suitable to protect their new mortgage, despite being told 
that the life cover would be reviewed every five years. 
Despite the changes in 2013, Mr and Mrs H have now found their life cover is coming to an 
end. Theyre concerned that theyll no longer be compliant with the terms of their mortgage 
and will be unlikely to find an affordable new policy given changes to their age and health. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, he said:
In 2004, RBS fulfilled its duty to provide suitable advice by recommending life cover 
that was sufficient to cover the unprotected balance of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage. 
In 2013, they borrowed an additional £15,000, changed to capital and interest 
repayment, and extended the mortgage by an additional five years. This meant their 
existing cover was insufficient and ended before the term of their mortgage. 
It was their decision to amend their mortgage and RBS was no longer providing 
advice.  
Life cover was also no longer a condition of the borrowing and it was up to them to 
decide whether or not they wanted cover. In other words, it was their responsibility to 
get life cover if they wanted it.  
In 2009 and 2014 they were sent review letters to notify them of the increase in 
premiums. This wouldve given them opportunity review their position but at no time 
did they contact RBS to express their concerns. 
As life cover is no longer a condition of their mortgage theyre not in breach of the 
conditions of their lending.  
Mr and Mrs H disagree with the investigators view. They maintain that they were told the 
policy would be reviewed every five years  particularly in relation to Mr H who had a critical 
illness element  and therefore RBS would notify them if it wasnt sufficient cover. They feel that issues arose after RBSs insurance arm was sold to a third party business and 
it was under pressure for its part in the financial crash. In any case they dont think it carried 
out reviews in line with the original agreement.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the advice in 2004 was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H. I note that life cover was a condition of RBS lending money and 
therefore it was a prerequisite of their mortgage. 
I note the policy provided cover in respect of their capital and interest repayment mortgage, 
for which they had no cover in place at the time, and matched the term and amount of their 
mortgage.
Although a decreasing term assurance policy is generally considered suitable in respect of a 
repayment mortgage I understand that Mr and Mrs H agreed to take out the level tem 
assurance policy, and this isnt what the complaint is about. In 2004, they potentially had 
additional cover, not less, but are unhappy that they werent told it was insufficient after they 
re-mortgaged.    
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I dont think at the point of extending their 
mortgage in 2013, and changing to capital and interest repayment, meant that the advice 
they received in 2004 was unsuitable. 
Im also not persuaded that RBS was under an ongoing obligation to provide advice 
regarding the suitability of their existing life cover policy in light of their re-mortgage. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that any additional advice was even sought by Mr and Mrs H at this 
stage either.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H thought that the policy would be reviewed every five years and so 
any suitability issues would be flagged up and possibly dealt with. Unfortunately for them, 
the reviews were only in relation to the cost of providing cover, based upon their 
circumstances at the point of sale in 2004. It wasnt an ongoing review of their changing 
circumstances and whether or not the policy was still suitable. 
So RBS cant be responsible for not doing something that it wasnt obliged to do. I also dont 
think that the potential sale of its insurance arm to a third party business or the financial 
crises caused RBS to behave in any other way than it shouldve done.      
Inevitably the 2004 policy would be unsuitable as cover in respect of the 2013 changes, but 
that doesnt mean RBS is responsible for Mr and Mrs H not having appropriate cover 
because it didnt actively bring to their attention that they might need to get a new policy. 
If Mr and Mrs H thought they needed additional cover following their re-mortgage, it wouldnt 
have been possible to extend their existing policy as the term and cost wouldve been set. 
Inevitably they wouldve needed a new policy, despite being older and having potential 
medical issues. But by not having cover now theyre not in breach of the conditions of their 
borrowing as life cover is no longer a condition of RBS lending them money. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman