DRN-3824825
The complaint
Miss G complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) 
declining a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In July 2022 Miss Gs dog had a problem with pain from a swollen stomach. She wasnt able 
to take the dog to her normal vet, so she took it to an out-of-hours vet, who diagnosed acute 
gastroenteritis. The vet treated the dog and Miss G subsequently made a claim for the cost 
of treatment (£374.58). 
However, CG said they wouldnt accept the claim, as review of the dogs clinical history 
indicated previous consultations involving diarrhoea and vomiting that would have affected 
the cover provided under the policy. They said had they been aware of the history when 
Miss G took out her policy they would have imposed specific exclusions (from October 2021, 
the date Miss G took out her policy). The exclusion would relate to the digestive system. CG 
added that at the time of taking out her policy, Miss G would have been advised of the 
importance of detailing all history relating to the dogs clinical history (which would have led 
them to apply the exclusion). As the condition claimed for (acute gastroenteritis) would have 
fallen within the exclusion, so they wouldnt accept the claim.
Miss G was unhappy about CGs decline of her claim, as she didnt think the previous clinical 
history indicated anything related to the current diagnosis of acute  gastroenteritis. The vet 
that treated the dog also didnt think the current condition was related to any similar 
conditions in the past. Miss G thought there were no pre-existing conditions for her to 
declare when taking out the policy. Miss G then complained to CG.
CG didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said when Miss G took out her 
policy, she was asked if her dog had ever visited the vet for anything other than routine 
vaccinations. Had the clinical history prior to the policy been disclosed, CG would have 
placed an exclusion on the policy (for the digestive system) which Miss G would have been 
able to decide whether to accept (and proceed with the policy). As the clinical history wasnt 
provided, CG placed the exclusion on the policy retrospectively. They added the claim for 
treatment of acute gastroenteritis would fall under the exclusion, so CG confirmed the 
decline of the claim.
CG also noted the policy terms and conditions provided to Miss G made it clear pre-existing 
conditions (or where there were clinical signs of existence) wouldnt be covered. CG referred 
to information in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and the General 
Exclusions section of the policy which provided for CG to add endorsements to the policy 
where they became aware of pre-existing conditions after a policy had been taken out.
CG also referred to the dogs clinical history prior to the policys inception, including vomiting 
and diarrhoea, which they said confirmed there were signs and symptoms of gastroenteritis 
prior to the start of the policy. They also referred to two assumptions statements that Miss 
G would have been asked to confirm when taking out the policy, relating to whether she was 
looking for cover for pre-existing conditions, and whether she was concerned that after 12 
months a condition wasnt covered. CG noted Miss G didnt disclose any pre-existing 
conditions for gastroenteritis  but it was discussed during a consultation in September 
2014. Had Miss G disclosed the clinical signs and symptoms from the consultation, CG 
would have applied the exclusion (endorsement) to the policy.
Miss G then complained to this service, saying CG had unreasonably declined her claim in 
saying the dogs condition was pre-existing. She said the letter from her vet confirmed the 
condition wasnt pre-existing, as the vet said the previous conditions in the clinical history 
werent shown to be related to the present acute gastroenteritis condition. She also said she 
wasnt asked about pre-existing conditions. Also that the diarrhoea her dog had suffered 
from at various points hadnt been diagnosed as gastroenteritis. She wanted CG to 
reconsider their rejection of the claim and to settle the claim.
Our investigator upheld Miss Gs complaint, concluding CG hadnt demonstrated the claim 
(for acute gastroenteritis) was linked to a pre-existing condition. He was persuaded by the 
vets opinion the acute gastroenteritis wasnt related to any conditions the dog had in the 
past, so it wasnt a pre-existing condition. The investigator also didnt think Miss G had made 
a misrepresentation, under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA), as he didnt think CG had asked a clear, relevant question to make her aware 
she would need to make them aware her dog had previously visited the vets for diarrhoea. 
So, she hadnt failed to take reasonable steps not to make a misrepresentation. So, CG 
hadnt acted fairly by applying the exclusion and declining the claim. To put things right, the 
investigator thought CG should consider Miss Gs claim in accordance with the remaining 
terms of the policy. 
CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, they referred to the clinical history showing a minimum of five 
visits to the vet due to diarrhoea and vomiting. This would fall under the exclusion for the 
digestive system. They also referred to a definition of gastroenteritis, including symptoms 
such as vomiting and diarrhoea. 
CG also provided evidence of the sales journey Miss G would have followed when taking 
out the policy. This included a question about whether she wanted cover for any pre-existing 
conditions (and a pop-up description of what would be a pre-existing condition (any illness, 
injury, symptom or sign of a condition that happened before your new policy begins). As 
Miss G answered no to the question, she made a misrepresentation and that was why an 
exclusion was added to the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Miss G.
 
There are two key issue in Miss Gs complaint. The first is whether CG acted fairly in 
declining her claim for treatment of her dog, on the grounds the dogs clinical history 
confirmed signs and symptoms of acute gastroenteritis. Which would indicate a pre-existing 
condition, so excluded from cover under the policy. Miss Gs view is that the previous 
conditions werent shown to be related to the present condition, as her vet stated.
The second issue is whether Miss G made a misrepresentation when she took out the 
policy, by not declaring a pre-condition. Miss G says there were no pre-existing conditions for her to declare (indicating she didnt make a misrepresentation). CG say the sales 
journey she followed when taking out the policy included a question about whether she 
wanted cover for any pre-existing conditions (and a pop-up description of what would be a 
pre-existing condition). As Miss G answered no to the question, she made a 
misrepresentation and that was why an exclusion was added to the policy.
On the first issue, the decline of the claim because of the exclusion for a pre-existing 
condition, Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of 
the policy (particularly those referred to by CG in their final response) together with the 
supporting information and evidence, including the vets notes and the clinical history of Miss 
Gs dog. In their final response, CG refer to the following statement in the IPID:
What is not insured?
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition 
Similar wording appears under the Veterinary Fees heading, where theres a sub-heading 
What is not covered?
CG refer to the Policy Definitions which state a Pre-Existing Condition means:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before 
the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
CG also refer to the General Exclusions section of the policy that includes the following:
As with all insurance policies, there are exclusions and conditions You accept and 
understand that medical conditions or diseases that apply to your coverage
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this policy. We will not pay claims for 
any of the following reasons:
If we are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these 
Pre-existing Conditions will not be covered and we reserve the right to add a 
relevant endorsement(s) to your policy in respect of these Pre-existing 
Conditions. . 
Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition, 
specifically, the [acute] gastroenteritis diagnosed by the vet in July 2022. Or whether there 
were any clinical signs or symptoms. Looking at the clinical history, there are notes of issues 
including vomiting and diarrhoea. However, none mention gastroenteritis as the cause. Ive 
also considered the vets opinion that the acute gastroenteritis wasnt related to these 
previous issues of diarrhoea and vomiting. 
In their response to our investigators view, CG refer to the clinical history showing a 
minimum of five visits to the vet due to diarrhoea and vomiting, which would fall under the 
exclusion for the digestive system. Ive taken these five visits to be those set out in their final 
response. Looking at them, three cover a two-week period in 2014 when the dog was  few 
weeks old and one in 2020 refers to similar issues when [the dog] was a puppy but nothing 
since then. None of the five episodes mention a diagnosis of gastroenteritis. 
CG also refer to a definition of gastroenteritis, including symptoms such as vomiting and 
diarrhoea. While I accept they are symptoms, this doesnt mean they cant be the result of other conditions (or one-off issues). Put another way, the occurrence of vomiting and 
diarrhoea doesnt automatically mean (or prove) the presence of gastroenteritis.
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given the points noted above, Im not 
persuaded CG have shown enough to apply the exclusion for a pre-existing condition in the 
circumstances of this case. So, Ive concluded CG acted unfairly to apply the exclusion to 
decline Miss Gs claim.
Turning to the second issue, whether Miss G failed to declare a pre-existing condition at the 
point she took out the policy, Ive considered the circumstances in which Miss G took out her 
policy. Ive considered the Assumptions section statements Miss G was asked to respond 
to that CG refer to in their final response, which are:
Are you looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition?
Are you concerned that after 12 months a Condition is no longer covered?
The first question assumes that a consumer would reasonably have known their pet had a 
pre-existing condition and declared it. Given my conclusion it wasnt reasonable for CG to 
apply the exclusion for a pre-existing condition, together with the vets view the 
gastroenteritis wasnt linked to the dogs previous issues, then I dont believe it was 
unreasonable for Miss G to think her dog didnt have a pre-existing condition. 
So, Ive concluded Miss G didnt make a misrepresentation (under CIDRA) when she took 
out her policy.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the exclusion for pre-existing conditions, and Miss G didnt make 
a misrepresentation when she took out her policy, they should assess the claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any limits on the costs of 
treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate). 
If CG accept the claim  they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount 
accepted, from the date of Miss G paid the vets bill to the date they reimburse her. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint. I require 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Assess Miss Gs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any limits on the costs of treatment and any policy excess (as appropriate).
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd accept the claim, they should also 
pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount settled, from the date Miss G paid the vets 
bill to the date they reimburse her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman