DRN-3863990
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr Ps complaint is about a loan provided by Santander. The loan was for £10,000 over a 
term of 60 months with monthly repayments of £227.97.
Mr P complains that Santander lent to him irresponsibly.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She said that although the checks carried out by 
Santander were reasonable and proportionate, the information gathered from the checks 
showed that the loan was likely to be unaffordable for Mr P.
Santander disagreed. It said that Mr P had declared monthly income of £1617 and monthly 
outgoings of £750 at the point of application. It said that this left Mr P with monthly 
disposable income of £867, which it thought was sufficient to make the cost of the credit 
affordable. Santander said it used a combination of customer stated information, credit 
bureau information and ONS data to obtain an estimate of Mr Ps outgoings. This showed 
estimated outgoings of £1223. Santander said it didnt agree with the adjudicators 
conclusion that it was unlikely that Mr P wouldve been able to repay the loan. It said the 
loan had never fallen into arrears and was redeemed much sooner than its maturity date. 
Santander said the conduct of the loan account wasnt representative of someone in 
financial difficulties.
Santander asked for further clarification from the adjudicator and sent further representations 
before this complaint was passed to me. Ive taken everything into account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, is set out on this firms website. 
Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ps complaint.
Santander needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to make 
sure that Mr P could afford to repay what was being lent in a sustainable manner.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to carry out. The checks must be borrower 
focussed and could take into account a number of things, such as the amount being lent, the 
length of the agreement, the amount of repayments, the total amount repayable and what 
Santander knew ab out Mr P at the time he applied for the loan.
When Mr P applied for the loan, he stated that his monthly income was £1617 and that his 
monthly outgoings were £750. This left monthly disposable income of £867 before the 
monthly cost of the loan of £227.
As part of its checks, Santander verified Mr Ps income and used credit bureau and ONS 
tools to estimate his expenditure. These tools estimated outgoings of £1223, and took 
account of housing and living costs, as well as the cost of existing credit commitments, 
based on lending date from the credit bureau.
Based on what Ive seen and taking into account factors such as the term of the loan and the 
cost of the loan, Im satisfied that the checks carried out by Santander were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Ive gone on to consider whether Santander made a fair lending decision based on the 
information it had gathered from these checks.
In his letter of complaint to Santander, Mr P stated that his household outgoings at the time 
he applied for the loan were £1102. He stated that his existing credit commitments were 
£461. Mr P says that if Santander had carried out proper checks, it wouldve found that his 
outgoings exceeded his income, and that further credit wasnt affordable.
Ive already said that I think the checks carried out by Santander were reasonable and 
proportionate. The information gathered by Santander doesnt correlate to the figures 
referred to by Mr P in his complaint letter. So, Ive focussed on the information obtained by 
Santander at the time.
The checks carried out by Santander showed that Mr P had eight credit card accounts and 
one mail order account at the time of application. The information from the credit bureau 
showed that Mr S was utilising around £9100 of available credit of £21,000, or around 43%. 
Whilst I agree with Santander that Mr S hadnt maximised his existing credit at the time of 
the application, I think the overall level of unsecured debt was significant in proportion to Mr 
Ps income. Existing credit payments (based on 5% of the unsecured debt balance) were 
£455 per month  this is information Ive taken from the account performance summary 
produced by Santanders Risk Team. This figure isnt significantly different from what Mr S 
says he was repaying at the time in his letter of complaint. This means that Mr S was using a 
high proportion of his monthly income to repay of existing credit. However, Santander have 
based its affordability assessment on an assumed monthly payment of 2.5% of the balance  
(£248) when the performance summary suggests that Mr S was paying more than this.
The account performance summary shows that Mr S had monthly mortgage payments of 
£322. Santanders assessment assumed that Mr S was paying half of this because the 
mortgage was in joint names. However, Mr S has told this service that he was the only 
person bringing income into the household at the time so 100% of the mortgage payments 
were being met by him.  
Looking at the information gathered by Santander, and taking into account the existing credit 
costs, the mortgage costs and other outgoings, I dont think this left Mr S with sufficient 
disposable income to afford the credit without needing to borrow further. Mr Ss monthly 
credit repayments already represented a significant proportion of his monthly income. And 
taking into account the term of the loan, I dont think further credit was sustainably 
repayable.
Ive taken account of all the points made by Santander.  It has referred to another decision 
by this service which is says had similar facts but wasnt upheld. Each case referred to this 
service is decided on its own circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr P didnt default on the loan repayments and settled the loan early. I agree that late payments, arrears and defaults tend to indicate that a consumer is 
experiencing financial difficulties. But the fact that Mr P didnt miss any payments and/or that 
he settled the loan early doesnt mean that he wasnt in a precarious financial position. Mr P 
has told this service that he had to borrow money from family and friends to meet the loan 
payments. And the early settlement may have come from another funding source rather than 
from Mr Ps funds.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Santander lent responsibly to Mr P. It should 
take steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Mr P should only have to repay the money he borrowed and had use of. So I think 
Santander should refund all of the interest and charges Mr P paid on the loan.
Santander UK Plc should;
Add up the total amount of money Mr P received as a result of being given the loan. The 
repayments made by Mr P should be deducted from this amount.
(a)if this results in Mr P having paid more than he received, any overpayments should be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest, calculated from the date of the overpayment to the 
date of settlement
(b)if any capital balance remains outstanding, Santander should arrange an affordable 
payment plan with Mr P
Santander should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation 
to the loan
HMRC require Santander to take tax off the refund of interest. Santander must give Mr P a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander UK Plc must take the steps Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman