DRN-2915314
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy sold to Mr and Mrs S in 2000, in connection with a joint 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr S if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ss needs? 
- Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs S the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy? 
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs S are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss case and Ive set out my reasons below.
I can see that Mr and Mrs S have put time and effort into their complaint, and Id like to 
reassure them that Ive considered everything theyve said, even if I dont refer to every point 
theyve raised in this final decision. 
Mr S has mentioned that salary information and the policy number in the redacted details 
provided by the business are incorrect. Having reviewed the unredacted document supplied 
to this service, it seems there may have been some typographical errors in the information 
supplied. But despite those errors, having taken everything into account Im not persuaded 
they make a difference to the overall outcome of the complaint. 
In their response to the adjudicators view Mr and Mrs S mentioned a number of 
discrepancies arising from the documents available from the point of sale, including the 
backdating of premiums for the policy. A lot of the clarification Mr and Mrs S are seeking can 
only be provided by Lloyds. But given the amount of time thats passed it may not be 
possible for the bank to provide the relevant details. I dont think thats unreasonable and we 
wouldnt expect a business to retain point of sale information indefinitely.
For the purpose of this final decision I have assessed the available information to decide 
whether or not the PPI policy was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs S say they were put under pressure to buy the policy, and that Lloyds didnt give 
them a proper choice about taking the cover. They say they had to buy the policy to get the 
mortgage they wanted. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs S have said. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure exactly what was discussed between Mr and Mrs S 
and Lloyds when the policy was sold. And as Ive already said, the sale took place many 
years ago, and Im mindful that precise recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
I can see that there was some correspondence between Mr and Mrs S and Lloyds in 
December 2000, following a phone call where the policy was sold. But there is nothing in the 
correspondence to suggest that buying the policy was a condition of getting the mortgage. In 
addition, after the policy was put in place, Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs S and said:
Please check the enclosed Policy Schedule to make sure that your policy details are correct 
and that the cover is right for you.
If youre dissatisfied, please return the documents within 30 days of receiving them, along 
with a note from you asking us to cancel the policy. 
Again, this doesnt suggest to me that the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage.
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs S have told me, I havent been able to 
safely conclude that Lloyds didnt make them aware that the policy was optional. 
Lloyds accepts that it probably advised Mr and Mrs S to take out the policy and it doesnt 
look like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. I say this because:
- Mr S was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. I understand Mrs S wasnt working when the policy was sold, so she 
wouldnt have been eligible for it. I think this might explain why only Mr S was 
covered by the policy.
- Mr S says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to 
sickness or accident, and that he and Mrs S owned a property overseas. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Ss employer sick pay, and wouldve 
meant Mr and Mrs S could use those benefits to pay for other expenses if Mr S 
couldnt work. 
In addition, I cant be sure that the proceeds of sale from the overseas property 
couldve been available quickly enough if Mr and Mrs S needed the money to cover their mortgage repayments.
So overall I think Mr and Mrs S would have had some use for the policy, despite their 
existing arrangements. 
- Mr S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover, I think it 
unlikely he and Mrs S needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the policys cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs S before they 
agreed to buy it. But the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have made a different decision if 
better information about the cost had been provided. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy was reasonably priced. So, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs S would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they 
would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman