DRN-3692984
The complaint
Mr P complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) increased his premium 
at renewal, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P says he paid £156.92 to insure his car with Acromas until the end of January 2022. He 
has made no claims during the policy year and his circumstances havent changed. The 
renewal quote he received was for £271.87, which he didnt think was fair and so queried 
this with Acromas. He says he received a response acknowledging his concerns but no 
explanation of the increase in premium was given.
Mr P says the response from Acromas didnt have a return address for him to respond in 
writing. He wants an explanation why the business hadnt contacted him since January 
2022.
Acromas says its agent spoke to Mr P to explain that his premium was calculated correctly.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Acromass response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says its for the business to decide how much it 
charges for its insurance policies. She explained she had seen Acromass underwriting 
criteria and is satisfied it followed this when calculating Mr Ps premium. 
Mr P didnt think this answered his concern about why his premium had increased by so 
much. So, he asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I understand he will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
The premium an insurer charges is based on an assessment of the likelihood of a customer 
making a claim and how much this is likely to cost. A wide range of factors are considered, 
and each insurer will have its own approach and appetite for taking on risk.
Its not our role to dictate to an insurer what it should charge customers for an insurance 
policy. The price it charges, and the methods used to calculate its premiums are a 
commercial decision for it to make.
So, we wont usually make any judgements about the way an insurer chooses to assess risk, 
the risk assessments it makes  or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk. But we will 
consider whether the insurer treated its customer fairly in the same way it would other 
customers, which is consistent with its general approach to pricing.
We asked Acromas for its underwriting information, which it has supplied. I have read this 
information to determine whether it used its established underwriting criteria when 
calculating Mr Ps premium.
Acromass underwriting criteria is sensitive commercial information, so I cant share it. But 
Ive considered the information it provided, and Im satisfied it did follow its established 
process when calculating Mr Ps premium.
Acromas explains that it constantly updates its view of risk in relation to changing claims 
patterns and new market data. We dont think its unfair for an insurer to do this. And I think 
the information it has provided shows it did treat Mr P as it wouldve any other customer. 
I can understand why Mr P was surprised and disappointed with the increased premiums he 
was quoted by Acromas. This was a significant increase compared with the premium he had 
paid in the previous year. I acknowledge his point that his circumstances didnt change, and 
he hadnt made any claims. But this doesnt mean Acromas treated him unfairly. The level at 
which it sets its premiums is a decision for it to make. Im satisfied it treated Mr P the same 
as it would any other customer when calculating his premium.
Mr P raised points in his referral to our service regarding a return postal address, and lack of 
timely responses by Acromas. These points werent part of his initial complaint and this is 
being dealt with separately by the business. I cant consider these points here.    
Im sorry that Mr P is upset with the rise in cost of Acromass insurance premium. But I think 
it has treated him fairly when calculating this. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more to 
resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman