DRN-3175446
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, has wrongly rejected a 
claim hes made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. 
What happened
In August 2020, Mr P was looking to buy a vehicle and he says he paid £494.40 for a pre-
purchase inspection and report. He made the payment to a business I will refer to as F.
Mr P says F carried out the inspection and phoned him with the outcome. But it didnt 
provide an inspection report. He needed this to try to negotiate the price with the seller. He 
contacted F more than once to try to get the report, but F did not reply. He had to pay for 
another business to inspect the vehicle and supply a report.
Barclaycard said it needed documentary evidence to show that F had breached its contract 
or misrepresented its services to Mr P.
Mr P said he was never given an invoice or contract. He provided information from Fs 
website and his communications with it.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think there was 
enough evidence to show that a breach of contract had occurred. And that Barclaycard 
wasnt wrong when it didnt attempt a chargeback or uphold Mr Ps section 75 claim.
Mr P didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
F did not provide him with a receipt or invoice.
A court would most likely accept the evidence he has been able to produce and decide 
that F was contracted to provide a comprehensive report. Therefore, under section 75, 
Barclaycard should compensate him for the breach of contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator. 
I will explain the reasons why.
Chargeback
Banks can help settle some disputes between customers and merchants by submitting a 
chargeback request for a transaction. Chargeback is a way for customers to dispute certain 
card payments and is run by the card scheme. A chargeback can only be done for certain 
specific reasons, such as the goods or services not being as described or being faulty, and 
within certain timescales. And theres no obligation on a business to carry out a chargeback, 
although we generally take the view that its good practice for a business to do so where 
theres a reasonable prospect of success.
Barclaycard didnt attempt a chargeback request. It couldnt demonstrate what service 
F should have provided because it didnt have a copy of the contract. F did something in 
return for the payment Mr P made - it carried out an inspection of the vehicle. So, in the 
absence of a contract or invoice, I think it was most likely that any chargeback would have 
been successfully defended by Fs bank. In the circumstances, I dont find Barclaycard acted 
unreasonably in not attempting a chargeback request.
Section 75
In considering whether Barclaycard treated Mr P fairly, I need to have regard to the relevant 
law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the time. In this 
case, relevant law includes Section 75, amongst others. Importantly, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. Rather, when I think about 
what a fair way is to resolve Mr Ps complaint, I have to take account of relevant law, but that 
doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if 
Mr P pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract. This is because, our 
service is an informal alternative to the courts, and it operates under different rules from a 
court.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr P has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier, he can also bring that claim against Barclaycard provided 
certain conditions are met.
Mr P says he paid for F to inspect a vehicle and provide a report. Hes provided evidence to 
support what he says, including information from Fs website and Mr Ps texts to F. But the 
evidence Mr Ps provided is not enough for me to conclude that there was a valid debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement or that a breach of contract or misrepresentation occurred. My 
role is to consider whether Barclaycard has acted fairly and reasonably here. And I think it 
has. I dont think it acted unfairly in not refunding Mr P when Mr P has been unable to supply 
a copy of the invoice or contract setting out what F had agreed to provide. And its clear he 
did receive something for the sum he paid, because the vehicle was inspected, and he 
received a verbal report.
I am not unsympathetic to the position in which Mr P finds himself. It is clear F did not 
respond to him when he asked about the report, or to his requests for a refund and for a 
copy of its invoice. But I cant uphold his complaint against Barclaycard for the reasons Ive 
explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman