DRN-4198675
The complaint
Mr H has complained about restrictions that St Jamess Place UK plc (SJP) has put on his 
account. He said he has been told to cease switching in and out of certain unit trusts. He 
doesnt feel he has been treated fairly. He wants to be able to switch without any restrictions 
going forward.
What happened
Mr H holds accounts with SJP. He has been investing in unit trusts either through an 
individual savings account (ISA) or an investment account. He said he received a letter from 
SJP in April 2022, notifying him that it was going to place restrictions on his switching 
activities within the accounts. 
Mr H said SJP agreed that his frequent switching in and out of specific funds was not illegal. 
But, he said, SJP went ahead and imposed restrictions including delaying his switching 
instructions by 24 hours and not allowing him to switch into specific funds altogether. 
Mr H said he was being discriminated against as the restrictions only applied to him and not 
to any other customers. He said SJP are in breach of contract, and he just wants to be 
treated the same as every other SJP client. He said he wants to be able to switch funds 
without restrictions.
SJP said in response, that it had analysed Mr Hs switch activity. It said Mr H was carrying 
out frequent short-term switches, usually lasting a day. It said it thought Mr H was doing this 
with the purpose of him benefiting from an upward movement that had not been priced in. It 
said this was called market timing and had a detrimental impact on other customers.
SJP said it had overriding responsibilities to all its clients. It referred to terms within its own 
documentation along with Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulation and in particular 
principles for businesses to adhere to, from the handbook. It said permitting frequent 
switching activity from Mr H would cause a conflict with its wider interests to be fair to its 
other customers.
Mr H was not happy with SJPs response and referred his complaint to our service.  
An investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint. He said he didnt think SJP had treated Mr H 
unfairly. He said Mr Hs investment strategy was different to that of most other investors and 
this is why SJP treated him differently. He said he found SJPs argument persuasive that Mr 
Hs frequent switches had a negative impact on other investors returns. He referenced 
guidance issued by the Investment Association and a note from the FCA. He said the 
guidance issued outlined the negative impact of Mr Hs investment strategy and that firms 
can turn business away in these circumstances. He concluded that SJPs actions were not 
unfair in the circumstances.
Mr H was not in agreement with the investigators view. He said he did not accept the 
investigators conclusions. He said the investigator was happy to accept that he was being 
discriminated against. He said when a switch into a property fund was cancelled by SJP, and 
he made a loss, it settled and paid compensation. He said it knew what was happening so 
far as its actions were insider dealing, in his opinion. He asked that his complaint be 
appealed. 
So as this is the case, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to look 
into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What is the role of The Financial Ombudsman Service?
I have read all submissions provided by both parties and in doing so I think it is worth 
explaining from the outset about the role of The Financial Ombudsman Service as an 
informal dispute resolution service. As an ombudsman, I make decisions on the balance of 
probabilities, and as an impartial decision maker I look to make findings that are fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint. My role does not involve applying any 
regulatory or disciplinary powers and it is not in my remit to tell a business how it should or 
shouldnt operate. 
In the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint, I have looked at two questions. Firstly, was it fair 
of SJP to decide Mr H had been undertaking a market timing strategy? If it was, then were 
the actions taken by SJP to place restrictions on his account on balance, fair and reasonable 
or not? 
I will not be looking into Mr Hs comments about SJP and insider dealing. Mr H has made 
comments that are of a regulatory nature. I am not the regulator, the FCA are. Mr H can 
send his comments to them if he wants to.  
Did SJP act fairly in deciding Mr H had been undertaking a market timing strategy? 
It isnt really in dispute that Mr H is carrying out a market timing strategy. He has not denied 
the strategy he has deployed, what or how he is doing it or why. It is acknowledged by both 
sides here what is happening. Furthermore, Mr H has stated he is willing to encourage 
more people to engage in the same strategy. He is open about what he is doing and doesnt 
believe he is doing anything wrong.
But for completeness, I would have drawn a conclusion that SJP acted fairly in deciding Mr 
H was engaged in market timing anyway.  
I say this after considering the analysis provided by SJP that it carried out over a quarter 
during 2022. It could see that Mr H carried 124 switches that amounted to a total value 
altogether £24,300,000. It said 90% of this by volume and value was in relation to a North 
American unit trust. 
SJP said Mr H was frequently switching into the North American unit trust when there was 
an upward movement in an underlying US index. It said this wouldnt have been reflected in 
the unit trust price, due to the price being calculated at the close of the last business day. 
SJP explained that Mr H was getting what it called a free ride each time he switched, and 
that Mr Hs activities were what is known as market timing. 
SJP provided persuasive analysis about what Mr H has been doing and why. Again, I dont 
think SJP has unfairly drawn the conclusions it has here. So, with all I have said above, it is not in dispute between the parties what Mr H is doing. 
What is in dispute is whether Mr H should be able to carry on with his market timing 
activities or not and whether SJP has acted unfairly in placing restrictions on his accounts.
Did SJP act fairly when it placed restrictions on Mr Hs accounts?
Mr H has said he is being discriminated against and is not being treated fairly. He said he 
just wants to be able to make switches on his accounts like other SJP account holders. 
SJP has placed restrictions on Mr Hs trading activity. It has either stopped Mr H from 
switching in certain funds or has delayed his switching request by 24 hours. SJP said it has 
a right to refuse Mr Hs switching requests or take action that it deems appropriate. It says it 
has stated this in its supplementary information document for his accounts.  
Within the SID document, it states under 7.4 Refusal to Act, 
If we reasonably believe that something you ask us to do might not follow the law, 
rules or regulations that apply, we can delay taking action whilst it considers the 
request or refuse to act.
I have looked through and read the SID document that SJP has referred to. I can see that 
by delaying or refusing to act, SJP was seeking to follow the terms provided in this 
document and in particular term 7.4 (given above). It has provided further information that it 
says supports the action it has taken under its own terms here.  
It has referred to two principles for businesses, within the FCA handbook that it thinks are 
relevant here. These are:
Principle 6: Customers interests  a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 8: Conflicts of interest  a firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both 
between itself and its customers and between a customer and another client. 
SJP said it has had to in this instance, manage a conflict of interest, between Mr H and its 
other customers that have holdings in the unit trust that he frequently switches in and out of.
SJP has also submitted to our service guidance written by the Investment Association about 
market timing. The guidance was published by the association to highlight the damaging 
effects of market timing on the wider client base of a unit trust. It also gives guidance on 
what a business can do about it including applying restrictions or turning business away. At 
the back of the guidance is a note written by the FCA also about market timing. SJP said it 
had followed the guidance when it applied the restrictions to Mr Hs accounts.
I have read the Investment Association guidance on market timing and the FCA note that 
was given as an appendix. The guidance outlines the issues with customers engaged with 
market timing and the negative impact this has on most investors that are holding units for 
the long term. SJP has explained the conflict of interest it had here in allowing Mr Hs 
trading activity to continue and has referenced FCA principles about this, given above. 
I have also read a report written by the European Securities and Markets Authority about 
market timing, that it issued in 2015. The report was called Investigations of Mis-practices 
in the European Investment Fund Industry. The authority stated the need for a firm to take 
action to ensure the wider protection of its investors. I think when I look through all of this, I can see the reasons why SJP has taken the actions it has, and I dont think it has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in doing so.  
Mr H has said on a few occasions that what he is doing is not breaking the law or rules, but 
I dont think thats the point here. SJP have had to balance its responsibilities to Mr H 
against its wider responsibilities to its other customers, after it has seen Mr H greatly benefit 
at their expense. SJP has listed guidance, regulation, and its own terms to support the 
action it has taken to protect its wider customer base. In looking through all that it has done 
and the reasons why, I am satisfied it has not acted unfairly to Mr H.  
In conclusion, based on everything I have read and the findings I have given, I dont uphold 
Mr Hs complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman