DRN-4235143
The complaint
Mr H has complained about U K Insurance Limited (UKI). He isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under his commercial motor insurance policy in relation to his windscreen.
For ease of reading any reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr H made a claim under his commercial motor insurance policy as he had a crack in his 
windscreen. His windscreen was fitted by UKIs agent, a national windscreen provider, but I 
will refer to UKI throughout for ease as it is responsible for the claim.
It transpired that the windscreen was fitted incorrectly, and the poor fitting caused water 
ingress that affected the vehicle to the extent that it failed its MOT. This was because the 
water had caused a problem with the vehicles electrics. But when Mr H complained about 
this UKIs agent was slow in its response and delayed matters. Although it ultimately 
accepted it had made a mistake after Mr H got an independent report (which Mr H has been 
paid for) to support his position. Given the delay and poor handling of all of this Mr H 
complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. It was accepted that the 
claim had been handled badly and that Mr H had been left without his van for a period of 
about eight months. And our investigator thought that Mr H should be paid £500 
compensation for this. But he didnt think additional costs that Mr H feels he incurred, such 
as the loss in value of his vehicle and additional repairs he had to undertake in relation to his 
brakes to get the van through its subsequent MOT, should be paid.
As Mr H remained unhappy, as he thought the compensation should be higher and his other 
costs should be paid, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree the complaint should be upheld but I dont think the redress 
suggested by our investigator goes far enough. Ill explain why.
It is accepted by both sides that the repair and attempts by UKIs agent to put things right 
after things went wrong with the windscreen repair was poor and extremely delayed. I agree 
with Mr H that his attempts to engage UKIs agents in putting things right was really poor and 
it mustve been very frustrating for Mr H to have to deal with this claim which dragged on for 
over eight months.
As such I think the compensation should be increased. I can understand why our 
investigator awarded £500 but I dont think this fully covers the stress, annoyance and 
inconvenience Mr H faced in dealing with his claim. This should have been a straightforward 
windscreen replacement and yet Mr H had to chase UKIs agent for months just to get his 
van repaired and back on the road after the water ingress problem affected the electrics. 
Plus, he had to be without his van for eight months while all this was sorted out which 
caused further inconvenience. Mr H had changed his work pattern at that stage and was less 
reliant on the van and fortunately he had use of another car, but there were clearly times he 
would have used the van had it been roadworthy. Mr H has also been clear that he was 
looking to sell the van around the time his van failed its MOT the first time and it was poor of 
UKIs agent not to fully valet and clean his van before it was returned to him. And when it did 
valet the van it only cleaned the inside, given it was in its possession for months and was in 
a poor state I find this disappointing. Given all of this, I think it would be fairer to pay Mr H 
£1,000 in compensation as opposed to £500.
Turning to the other concerns Mr H has raised I can understand that he feels his van may be 
worth less now and he was looking to sell it around the time he got the windscreen replaced. 
But vehicle prices fluctuate, and some have gone up in the present marketplace. However, 
importantly in this case, Mr H has chosen to keep his van as it is useful at this time since the 
van was returned to him a few months ago  so I cant be sure he wouldve sold it when he 
originally had the problem as he may have changed his mind. So, I dont think it would be 
fair to ask UKI to pay the difference in value, if any, here.
Finally, I understand that Mr H has had to pay a contribution towards further issues the van 
had in order to finally pass its MOT before it was returned by UKI. While Mr H accepts that 
the brake pads needed replacing due to wear and tear he doesnt feel he should pay for the 
other brake related issues. I understand his point, especially as his van didnt fail for these 
reasons before UKI looked to repair the water ingress problem caused by the poorly fitted 
windscreen.
However, Mr Hs repairing garage has been clear that the brake issues werent related to 
either the water ingress or the vehicle been sat unused for so long. His repairer said 
Unfortunately, the Front and Rear Brake Discs & Pads are nearly 100% worn due to daily 
usage. In regards to the Master Cylinder and Brake Booster / Servo. This is due to a fault 
with the vehicle, this is not to do with the vehicle not being used or the water ingress. As this 
is the only evidence provided in relation to this point, and it has been provided by Mr Hs 
chosen garage I cant hold UKI responsible for the brake related issues. If Mr H gains any 
further evidence in support of his position I would expect UKI to consider this, after all a 
vehicle being stood idle for a period of time is likely to have brake issues. But without any 
evidence in support of Mr Hs position I cant say UKI has acted unfairly here as it has simply 
acted in line with Mr Hs repairers advice.
Given all of this, Im presently minded to partly uphold this complaint and to ask UKI to pay 
Mr H £1,000 in compensation for the clear stress, annoyance, inconvenience and loss of use 
that Mr H has faced here.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision and accepted the position outlined. 
Mr H said he was a little disappointed with the level of compensation awarded because of 
the sheer disdain with which UKI treated me  and felt that the compensation didnt fully 
take into account the deterioration of the condition of his van. But he accepted this 
judgement. While UKI just asked for clarification as to whether the compensation awarded included the 
reimbursement of the £85 Mr H paid for his report. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides accept the position outlined I dont propose to go over the detail of the 
complaint again now. Other than to say I can understand Mr Hs response in accepting the 
decision as he thinks he should be paid a higher level of compensation. While I understand 
his position, and accept that he was treated poorly here, I think £1,000 is fair. And this 
compensation award is in addition to the £85 Mr H had to pay for his independent report.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance 
Limited to pay £1,000 compensation in addition to the £85 Mr H paid for his report. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman