DRN-1306646
 
The complaint
Mr W complaints about unsolicited calls he received from a third-party company following a 
claim he made with U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line Insurance).
What happened
Mr W made a claim with his insurance company, Direct Line. Following this, he began to 
receive unsolicited calls from a third-party company who say they are an accident 
management firm. The third party say they obtained his details from his insurance company 
Direct Line.
Direct Line says its policy is that it does not pass on or sell details to accident management 
companies or work with them. It explained that these companies often obtain information 
illegally and that it does everything it can to prevent that. It also explained that it is 
proactively working with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and other regulators to 
work out how his details were obtained and has passed the matter to its counter fraud team 
to investigate whether his details were leaked to the third-party.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said we arent the 
regulator so can only look at the information we have available to consider whether Direct 
Line has done anything wrong. He said that there is nothing to suggest Direct Line passed 
Mr Ws details on and he thought Direct Line had done everything he would expect it to do 
when it was informed about the call.
Mr W didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained, this service isnt a regulator. Instead, my role is to look at the 
circumstances of this individual complaint.
Direct Line has explained that it doesnt pass on its customers' details to third parties and 
that it is currently working with the ICO to try to establish how Mr Ws details were obtained. 
It has also explained that this has been passed to their counter fraud department to 
investigate. So, Im satisfied that Direct Line is taking Mr Ws concerns seriously and doing 
all it can to investigate them.
Direct Line hasnt been able to tell Mr W how the third party obtained his details  and I can 
understand how concerning that must be for Mr W. But I cant ask Direct Line to tell Mr W 
something it doesnt yet know  and may never know. And I haven't seen anything to suggest Direct Line knowingly passed Mr W's details to the third-party company. From the 
information Ive seen, it appears that Direct Line is doing everything Id expect it to in order to 
try to find out how this happened. And Mr W hasn't told us that there has been any financial 
loss as a result of this issue. So I dont think I can ask Direct Line to do anything further.
Mr W has referred the matter to the ICO  and they are the correct body to be able to 
investigate Mr Ws concerns further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman