DRN-2186832
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr R complain that BISL Ltd treated them unfairly when they needed to make 
amendments to their motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M and Mr R had an existing car insurance policy with BISL which they took out in           
March 2019. In September 2019, Mr R was due to start a new job and needed to amend the 
policy to include business use. The policy documents said he could make amendments to 
the policy for a £25 fee, so Mr R contacted BISL to change his policy.
BISL tried to amend Mrs M and Mr Rs existing policy to include business use as theyd 
asked. However, the existing insurer didnt want to accept the risk on the policy. So BISL 
explained to Mr R that theyd have to cancel their existing policy, but theyd be able to offer a 
new policy with a different insurer for a premium of around £363 per annum.
Mr R didnt think this was fair. He felt that he should have been able to amend his existing 
policy, he also felt the new insurance premium hed been offered was too high. So, he found 
a cheaper policy with another provider for around £290 per year, cancelled the policy with 
BISL and paid them the £55 cancellation fee. He then raised a complaint.
 
BISL didnt uphold the complaint. They said that although there was an option to make 
amendments to an existing policy for £25, there was no guarantee any amendments would 
be accepted by the insurer. They said that had Mr R taken out the new policy with BISL that 
the £55 cancellation fee wouldnt have been payable. However, as Mrs M and Mr R had 
chosen to insure their car elsewhere, theyd charged the fee which was explained in the 
policy agreement.
Mrs M and Mr R didnt think this was fair. They said they hadnt seen anything in the policy 
documents which limited the type of amendments that could be made. So, they asked this 
service to look into their complaint.
 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that BISL had tried to 
amend the policy as requested but the existing insurer had declined this  which wasnt 
BISLs fault. She also said that BISL had offered Mrs M and Mr R a new policy, but they had 
chosen to go with a different insurer, so it was fair that theyd paid the £55 cancellation fee.
Mrs M and Mr R didnt agree. They said they hadnt been made aware that amendments 
may not be accepted by their insurer, and they felt theyd been forced to pay the £55 and 
cancel the policy or pay substantially more.
 
So, they asked for an ombudsman to look into their complaint, and the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mrs M and Mr R have told us they didnt recall seeing anything in their policy documents 
which said that BISL may arrange cover with another insurer if any amendments arent 
accepted. They also said they feel the policy was mis-sold because BISL advertised 
amendments could be made - even though they werent obligated to do so. But I dont agree.  
Ive looked at the policy documents, and Ive seen that in the welcome pack there is a 
section titled Important Information about Our Insurance Intermediary Services and within 
this there is a section titled What Insurance Intermediary Services will We provide? which 
explains that BISL will Deal with your requests for adjustments you have to make to your 
policy such as changes to the cover required, the use and/or vehicle insured. We will notify 
the insurer, deal with any amendments of risk or adjustments of premium required and 
provide you with confirmation of any changes to your policy. We may arrange cover with an 
alternative insurer if the amendments to your policy are not acceptable to your original 
insurer. 
Ive also looked at how this information was presented, if it was clear or misleading, and 
therefore if the policy was mis-sold to Mrs M and Mr R - but I dont think it was. I say this 
because there is a dedicated section to the services BISL provide on the contents page and 
it is one of the first sections referred to in the welcome pack. 
It is also highlighted in bold as important information so Im satisfied that BISL have made it 
clear about the services they provide and what would happen if an insurer declined an 
amendment request. I also think its clear that BISL would only deal with notifying the 
insurers of any requests, not actually making the decision about whether or not the request 
was accepted. So, I dont think theyve done anything wrong here.
Mrs M and Mr R have also told us they feel they were forced to cancel the policy and pay the 
£55 cancellation fee. I acknowledge that Mrs M and Mr R were told that they needed to 
cancel their existing policy because their existing insurer wouldnt allow the requested 
amendment. But this isnt something that BISL had any control over, that was a commercial 
decision made by Mrs M and Mr Rs existing insurer. I can only look at the actions taken by 
BISL and if they treated Mr and Mrs M fairly. 
I recognise that the premium Mrs M and Mr R were offered by BISL was higher than they 
were able to get elsewhere, but I cant reasonably say BISL did anything wrong here.            
Ive seen that in the policy documents BISL said that they will arrange your vehicle 
insurance by selecting a range of prices from Our panel of insurers that we can offer.        
So, I think it was clear that BISL have specific insurers that they deal with and are limited to 
providing quotes from this panel. 
BISL offered Mrs M and Mr R the best premium that they could source from this panel.             
I recognise that on the initial call, BISL told Mr R that even if he chose to take out a new 
policy with them that hed have to pay the cancellation fee. And Im persuaded that Mr R 
then chose to seek an alternative quote and proceed with this, after being told that he would 
have to pay the cancellation fee regardless of his decision. But its not for me to punish a 
business for making a mistake, and Ive listened to the second call Mrs M had with BISL, 
where the call handler confirmed that the cancellation fee wouldnt have been payable if 
theyd chosen to take out the new policy with BISL.
  I recognise this would have been frustrating for Mrs M and Mr R, and that by the time they 
spoke to the second call handler they had already looked elsewhere for alternative insurance 
and decided to proceed with a quote from a new insurer. However, Mrs M and Mr R were 
provided with the correct information on the second call to allow them to make an informed 
decision about what would happen if they chose to insure their vehicle elsewhere - and they 
continued with this option.
I also dont think Mrs M and Mr R would have done anything differently if theyd been told the 
cancellation fee could be waived before theyd accepted the quote from the new insurer. I 
say this because, by this point they had already received an alternative quote that was 
cheaper than BISL could offer  before the £25 amendment fee had been added. So, I think 
its likely Mrs M and Mr R would have gone ahead with the cheaper insurance once they 
were aware of the annual saving between the two policies. 
I recognise that Mrs M and Mr R feel strongly about this, and that this wont be the outcome 
they were hoping for. However, having reviewed their complaint in full, I cant say that BISL 
have acted unreasonably or applied any of the terms and conditions of its policy unfairly, so I 
cant uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman