DRN-2731355
The complaint
Mrs K, represented by Miss K, complains that the kitchen she acquired through a fixed sum 
loan agreement with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality. She says items 
were missing and the installation wasnt of the standard it should have been. Although Mrs K 
is represented by Miss K, for ease of reference Ill be referring to Mrs K throughout. 
What happened
Mrs K entered a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi in April 2018 to pay for a new 
kitchen. The kitchen was to be installed by the retailer. Mrs K says that the kitchen wasnt 
fitted as it should have been. Mrs K raised several issues with the quality of the installation, 
missing parts and damage caused. Mrs K says that there has been a breach of contract. 
She says the contract should be delivered and that all damaged items replaced. She also 
says that she should be compensated for the upset caused by not having a fully functioning 
kitchen since June 2018 and the costs of having to take remedial actions  including 
additional running of the dishwasher to prevent flooding and additional cleaning costs.
Hitachi provided a final response letter dated 1 May 2019. This contained a summary of the 
discussion that had taken place to that time regarding the works required and the concerns 
raised by Mrs K. It concluded that the retailer had offered to refund £1,163.16 to allow Mrs K 
to have works completed herself and to supply the parts it had confirmed. It also said the 
retailer had offered to pay £250 as a gesture of goodwill. Hitachi said in addition to the 
retailers offer it would refund a total of £1,163.16.
Mrs K didnt accept this offer. Mrs K provided quotes for the work to be undertaken. One was 
for £3,480 and another for £2,700. Although the retailer didnt accept that all the issues 
included in the quote should be covered it agreed in order to resolve the complaint it would 
provide the stock as necessary and pay £3,000 in settlement of this case.
Our investigator thought that the combination of the offer of a £3,000 refund and supply of 
stock along with the payments for distress and inconvenience offered in Hitachis final 
response letter were reasonable.
Mrs K didnt accept the offer of £3,000 for the costs of the labour. Mrs K said this wasnt 
enough as a breach of contract had occurred, and the kitchen should either be reinstalled to 
the point of the breach or the contract fulfilled. Mrs K said that items had also been damaged 
noting the dining table, dishwasher, oven and kitchen sink and she didnt think this had been 
considered. Mrs K later provided an invoice for a new dishwasher and plumbing work under 
the kitchen sink which she said should be reimbursed.
Mrs K said she had suffered with a non-fully functioning kitchen for over two years and that 
this had caused a lot of distress and upset which warranted a significant amount of 
compensation which she didnt think had been addressed.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mrs K entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi in April 2018 to acquire a 
kitchen. The contract included the provision of items and the installation. This 
complaint is against Hitachi as the finance provider. Under the regulations Hitachi 
can be held liable if there was a breach of contract in the delivery of the kitchen. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) sets out that the goods must be of 
satisfactory quality and that services delivered with reasonable care and skill. In this 
case that means that all the ordered parts needed to be delivered and be fit for 
purpose and that the installation needed to be to a reasonable standard.
It was accepted that Mrs Ks kitchen wasnt fully installed to the required standard. 
Therefore, I accepted that a breach of contract had occurred.
There was a breakdown in the relationship between Mrs K and the retailer. I noted 
Mrs Ks comments that the retailer should complete the work in line with the contract. 
But, given the reported issues, I accepted that the relationship had broken down and 
the appropriate resolution was for the remaining work to be completed by another 
party.
Mrs K provided two quotes for the work that needed to be completed. These were for 
£3,480 and £2,700 respectively. Our investigator considered these and suggested an 
amount of £3,000 be refunded to allow the works to take place. The retailer agreed to 
refund £3,000 to settle the issues and to supply the stock required for the work to 
take place. Having looked at the quotes provided and the other information available 
I found the offer of a refund of £3,000 along with the required supplies was 
reasonable.
The case against the retailer was also sent to the Furniture Ombudsman and I 
understood it supported the suggested refund. At the time of my provisional decision 
I understood Mrs K hadnt accepted the outcome from the Furniture Ombudsman and 
so payment hadnt been made by the retailer. As I found that there was a breach of 
contract, I said that Hitachi could be held jointly liable. So, in the event the refund and 
supplies werent provided by the retailer I would expect Hitachi to provide this to 
Mrs K.
Mrs K was caused distress and inconvenience by the issues with her kitchen, but this 
was an issue to be considered against the retailer. As this complaint was against 
Hitachi, I could only consider compensation for any upset caused by it not providing 
the service it should have done through the investigation. And having looked through 
the case file I thought Hitachi had assisted Mrs K in this case. 
Mrs K said she incurred costs for plumbing work under the sink and a new 
dishwasher and she wanted these costs refunded. However, the quotes provided on 
which the refund of £3,000 was offered included plumbing work and the contract 
didnt include the provision of a new dishwasher and I had nothing to show this was 
subsequently agreed. Therefore, I thought that the refund of £3,000 along with the 
required stock was a reasonable remedy to the issues raised regarding the 
installation of the kitchen and didnt require the additional costs of the new 
dishwasher and plumbing to be refunded separately.
Hitachi responded to my provisional decision saying it had nothing further to add. Mrs K 
didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further information was provided in response to my provisional decision, my 
conclusions havent changed. As I set out in my provisional decision I find that there was a 
breach of contract as the kitchen Mrs K acquired wasnt installed with reasonable care and 
skill. However, I find the offer of £3,000 for the remedial works along with the provision of the 
required stock a reasonable remedy. As I noted in my provisional decision, Hitachi is liable 
for this if it is not actioned by the retailer.
Putting things right
Mrs K has been offered a refund of £3,000 by the retailer and the supply of the required 
stock. However, in the event this hasnt been provided, as I accept there has been a breach 
of contract for which Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc can be held liable, Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc 
should refund Mrs K £3,000 and ensure that the required supplies are provided for the 
remedial action to take place. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should take the 
actions set out above in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman