DRN-4403092
The complaint
Mr C complains about the amount Covea Insurance plc has offered for a claim he made 
under a buildings insurance policy following a water leak.
Reference to Mr C or Covea includes respective agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the background:
Mr C owns a flat that benefitted from buildings insurance underwritten by Covea. In 
2016 a water leak caused damage in the basement of his flat. He got in touch with 
Covea to make a claim in August 2017. It appointed a loss adjuster.
The claim was accepted and the loss adjuster agreed for Mr C to proceed with 
repairs at a value of around £12,000, including VAT. Work began in late 2017. After 
the strip out, Mr Cs builder said the tanking should be reinstated, so this cost should 
be added to the schedule of repair. The loss adjuster didnt agree.
The loss adjuster said it chased Mr C in early 2018 but didnt hear back. It closed the 
claim in July 2018 without making a payment.
Mr C got back in touch with the loss adjuster in early 2022. He provided a quote of 
around £23,500 for the work, which included tanking. The loss adjuster agreed to pay 
it to settle the claim, but Covea said it wouldnt pay more than the original value of 
the work  which it maintained was £12,000. Mr C complained.
Covea said it was correct to maintain its original offer. However, it accepted it should 
have paid that in 2018. Noting the cost of building work had increased since then, it 
increased its offer to around £17,500, based on paying 75% of Mr Cs quote. Covea 
didnt comment on the tanking.
Mr C didnt think that was fair. He said hed taken professional advice in 2017 and 
that had shown the tanking was damaged by the water leak. So he thought tanking 
should be included in the settlement. Covea told us it hadnt excluded any of the work 
from the quote  so it had included the tanking. It clarified it had only reduced the 
quote by 25% to account for the time taken to get the work completed.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. He was satisfied 
tanking was included in the offer. And he thought the reduction was fair as Covea 
wasnt solely responsible for the delay. However, he said Covea should pay the cost 
of the professional advice Mr C took as that showed tanking had been damaged by 
the water leak and should be included in the claim settlement. That was £540.
Mr C didnt think this went far enough to put things right. He wasnt satisfied tanking 
was included in the offer. And he said the delays arose because Covea didnt agree 
to include tanking originally  which is why he took professional advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the position reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Covea agrees the damage is covered by the policy. And its made an offer to settle 
the claim. The question for me is whether that offer is a fair one. There are two main 
points to consider: the tanking and the timescale.
Initially Covea didnt agree to include tanking at all. It said there either wasnt tanking 
or, if there was, it wouldnt have been damaged by the water leak. Mr C turned to a 
surveyor for professional advice in 2017. They inspected the flat and said there was 
tanking. They said it had been damaged, I understand as a result of the water 
damage, and recommended reinstating it. I havent seen any other expert opinion 
that might challenge the surveyor, so Im satisfied its a fair position. That means 
Covea should have included the tanking repair originally.
It also means I think Covea should pay for the cost of the surveyors professional 
advice. Had Covea handled things fairly and recognised there was tanking and it had 
been damaged, Mr C wouldnt have had to turn to the surveyor. Because of that Im 
going to require Covea to reimburse the £540 Mr C paid.
The quote Mr C presented in 2022 included tanking. Whilst Covea could have been 
clearer that it accepted the tanking work was covered by that time, it didnt say it had 
excluded it. The only reason it gave for reducing the invoice was the timeframe. So 
Im satisfied that by this time, Covea had agreed to cover the tanking in principle and 
a contribution to it was included within its offer of around £17,500.
Covea closed the claim in 2018 when the loss adjuster didnt hear from Mr C about 
the progress of the work. Hes given a number of reasons why he wasnt in touch 
again until 2022. I understand other work, unrelated to the claim, was being carried 
out to the building and Mr C was focused on that. The other work was itself delayed 
by a problem with the buildings managing agent that took time to resolve, as well as 
the Covid pandemic.
Its not clear to what extent these things prevented the work to Mr Cs flat from 
progressing. And he wasnt in touch with Covea for around four years  so it didnt 
get the chance during that time to help him overcome any potential barriers to 
progress and manage the value of the claim. With the claim closed, it wasnt aware it 
had a potential liability to Mr C for the claim, that would have been growing in value 
over time. So I can understand why Covea considers its position was prejudiced.
On the other hand, I havent seen any evidence to show Covea made a cash offer to 
Mr C in 2018 that he could have accepted in full and final settlement. And even if it 
had, it wouldnt have included the tanking, so it wouldnt have been reasonable. He 
would have had to return to Covea at some point to ask it to pay for the tanking. So I 
think Covea is responsible for some of the timescale  but not all of it.
In these circumstances, I dont think it would be fair for either party to lose out 
entirely. It was unfair for Covea to maintain its offer at the 2018 rate. But if it were to pay the quote in full, it would effectively be held solely responsible for the time taken 
 which I dont think would be fair either. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied 
Coveas offer of around £17,500 is fair and reasonable. I think it amounts to a fair 
compromise given whats happened. So I wont be requiring it to increase that offer.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Covea Insurance plc to pay £540 for the surveyors professional advice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman