DRN-4504259
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the partial settlement hes received from Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) following a claim made under his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D has a bank account which also provides travel insurance underwritten by IPA.
Whilst on holiday, his headphones, camera (small video recording device), wedding ring and 
a belt were stolen from Mr Ds room whilst he was elsewhere. So, he made a travel 
insurance claim for the theft of the items to IPA.
There was a delay in IPA considering Mr Ds claim. Ultimately, IPA settled the claim for the 
headphones, with a 30% deduction for wear and tear, but they declined the other items. 
IPA said the camera wasnt covered under the policy, and the belt and ring werent reported 
to the police at the time, so IPA said these items wouldnt be covered either. However, they 
recognised there was a delay in considering the claim, so they also paid Mr D £75 
compensation.
Mr D was unhappy with IPAs claim decision and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt 
think IPA had applied the exclusion theyd relied on correctly when declining parts of the 
claim. However, she also said that she didnt think those declined items would be covered in 
any event. 
The investigator also said the headphones shouldnt have actually been covered, and 
therefore the deduction IPA had applied wasnt unreasonable. She also thought the 
compensation IPA had paid was fair, so she didnt recommend they do anything further.
Mr D didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Mr D, Ive reached the same outcome as 
our investigator.
Ill address the different points of the claim and complaint separately.
The declined parts of the claim
IPA declined to cover the stolen camera, wedding ring and belt. 
They said the camera wasnt covered under the Policy. They referred to the following policy 
term:
WHAT IS NOT COVERED
8. Unset precious stones, contact or corneal lenses, non-prescription spectacles or 
sunglasses without a receipt, hearing aids, dental or medical fittings, cosmetics, 
perfumes, tobacco, vaporisers or E-cigarettes, drones, alcohol, antiques, musical 
instruments, deeds, manuscripts, securities, perishable goods, surfboards/sailboards, 
bicycles, marine equipment or craft or any related equipment or fittings of any kind 
and damage to suitcases (unless the suitcases are entirely unusable as a result of 
one single incidence of damage).Damage to china, glass (other than glass in watch 
faces, prescription spectacles and sunglasses, cameras, binoculars or telescopes), 
porcelain or other brittle or fragile articles unless caused by fire, theft, or accident to 
the transportation vehicle or vessel in which they are being carried.
The belt and wedding ring were also declined, as IPA say they werent reported to the Police 
at the time. 
I dont think IPA has fairly declined the claim for these items based on the reasons and 
exclusions they relied on. Firstly, the exclusion IPA referred to in reference to the camera not 
being covered isnt correct, as this exclusion is in relation to damage to glass, other than 
cameras. And I understand the reasons why Mr D didnt report the ring and belt at the time, 
as they werent discovered until the following day.
However, whilst I dont think the exclusions or reasons relied on were correct or fair, I still 
dont think IPA acted unfairly overall by declining the claim for these items. Ill explain why.
Mr Ds policy defines valuables as:
VALUABLES
jewellery, precious metals or precious stones or items made from precious metals or 
precious stones, watches, furs, leather articles, laptops, tablets, e-readers, 
photographic  audio  video  computer  television - games (including but not 
limited to CDs, DVDs, memory devices and headphones), telescopes, or binoculars.
All the above items being claimed for are classed as valuables, the ring is jewellery, the 
camera falls under photographic/video items, and the belt is an article of leather. However, 
under the policy cover for baggage and, and of importance in this claim - valuables, there is 
the following exclusion:
WHAT IS NOT COVERED
15. Valuables or personal money or passport left unattended at any time (including in 
a vehicle or in the custody of carriers) unless deposited in a hotel safe or locked 
safety deposit box. If items are stolen from a hotel safe or safety deposit box, any 
claims where you have not reported the incident to the hotel in writing and obtained 
an official report from the appropriate local authority.
None of the stolen items were in either a safe or locked safety deposit box at the time, so in 
line with the above exclusion, the theft of these items wouldnt have been covered. 
Therefore, whilst I recognise the term IPA relied on was incorrect, and I understand why two 
items werent reported at the time, the overall decision to decline the claim for those items was correct, but for other reasons. Consequently, I dont think IPA has acted unfairly by 
declining the claim for these items.
The deduction to the headphones settlement
Mr D is unhappy that he has received a reduced settlement for his headphones. 
IPA has applied a deduction of 30% for wear and tear. IPA have also provided this service 
with internal guidance on how they apply deductions, and the deduction has been applied in 
line with this.
However, Mr D argues that the deduction amount specifically isnt listed in his policy terms, 
so he says it isnt fair to apply.
Having looked at the terms, I agree with Mr D that the specific appliable deduction isnt 
listed. It says:
The amount payable will be the value at the time of purchase less a deduction for 
wear and tear based on the age of the property as shown in the table below, (or if the 
item can be repaired economically we will pay the cost of repair only).
But the table isnt actually in the policy terms. There is a deduction table for ski equipment, 
but that is a separate part of the policy.
So, I might have concluded it was unreasonable for IPA to apply this deduction if they were 
settling the claim under the policy cover. However, I dont think they have acted unfairly 
overall. Ill explain why.
As I outlined in the above policy term, headphones are actually classed as a valuable. And 
the headphones werent in a safe at the time of the theft. So technically, under the policy 
terms and cover, IPA could have declined to cover them at all.
So, the fact IPA has covered them outside the policy terms, I think Mr D has received a 
benefit which he shouldnt actually have received in the first place. Under the policy terms, 
he shouldnt have received any settlement for them. So, the fact he has received a 
settlement outside the policy terms, minus 30%, isnt unfair.
Whilst I appreciate Mr D feels its unfair to apply a deduction outside of what the policy terms 
say, by that same approach, he has actually benefited from a settlement outside the policy 
terms in the first place. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to say IPA cant 
apply a deduction on a settlement that, under the terms, Mr D shouldnt be receiving in any 
event.
The service received
IPA recognise there was a delay in assessing Mr Ds claim and communication issues, and 
they paid £75 compensation for this. Having considered all the information provided, I think 
that amount is fair, so Im not going to direct IPA to increase this.
A relatives claim
Mr D has also said hes been treated unfairly as a relative who has the same policy had their 
claim settled in a different way.However, as explained by our investigator, our consideration of Mr Ds claim and complaint 
is limited to his claim and his insurance policy, and whether IPA has fairly settled his claim. 
But what I would add here is that as mentioned, Mr D has received a settlement for his 
headphones outside the policy terms as they never should have been covered. And I cant 
consider what his relative received as settlement of their claim, or whether that was in line 
with, or outside of, the terms of their policy.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman