DRN-3582470
The complaint
Mr H complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that Sanlam Investments 
UK Limited (Sanlam) provided unsuitable investment advice during the years 1988-1991 
when it recommended Mr H to invest in a number of savings plans. Mr H feels he has been 
financially disadvantaged by the poor advice he feels was provided and wants redress based 
on the principle of investment loss. 
The plans were sold to Mr H by a financial business trading under a different name. But, to 
keep things simpler, as Sanlam is now responsible for the actions of that business, I will 
refer to Sanlam as the financial business that provided the advice and sold the investments 
complained about. 
What happened
Sanlam sold Mr H savings policies as follows: 
Policy W - commenced on 18 February 1988 and included a life assurance benefit of 
£450.00 or the Investment Benefit if greater. A total of £4,780.00 was paid in 
premiums. A surrender value of £5,012.96 was paid on 4 January 2008.
Policy K - commenced on 3 January 1989, and a total of £4,380.00 was paid in 
premiums. A surrender value of £5,504.87 was paid on 15 March 2007.
Policy T - commenced on 4 December 1989 with premiums totalling £4,340.00 being 
paid up to the surrender date of 4 January 2008. The surrender value was £7,153.93.
Policy A - commenced on 4 June 1991, and a total of £4,975.00 was paid in 
premiums. A surrender value of £7,032.55 was paid on 4 January 2008.
Mr H told Sanlam he was mainly unhappy because there was:
no evidence of a requirement for him to have savings contracts of such a long term 
nature 
no evidence of him having adequate deposit based emergency savings worth at least 
three months income as an absolute minimum 
no evidence of the other, quite probably more suitable, products in Sanlams product 
range having been discussed  the reason (Mr H suggested) being that the sale of 
the long term policies he was recommended resulted in increased commission 
payments to Sanlams representatives 
no evidence that he had been provided with all the relevant product literature so it 
cant be assumed he had all the information at hand when making his investment 
decisions. 
In response to his complaint Sanlam said, in brief summary, that the limited information still 
available showed that Mr H had been comfortably able to afford to invest as he had deposit 
based cash savings worth more than three months salary in 1991 and it was reasonable to 
suppose this had been building up throughout the timespan the savings policies were sold. 
In addition, Sanlam said as well as having substantial equity in his property, Mr H had a 
significant portfolio of non-cash assets in various investments to fall back on if required. 
Sanlam said that although Mr Hs savings objectives werent mentioned in the paperwork it 
held, his financial situation and personal circumstances meant his needs could reasonably 
be considered less likely to have been of a shorter-term nature  which seems to have been 
borne out by the 18-20 years terms he signed up to. It said his investment track record 
suggested a more adventurous attitude to risk, and a very astute understanding of the 
policies' features. Sanlam didnt agree that the savings policies it sold Mr H had been 
unsuitable given his circumstances.
Mr H wasnt happy with this response so he brought his complaint to us. 
Where complaints concern events that happened more than six years ago, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cant always look into what happened. Our investigator first considered 
whether the complaint was in our jurisdiction. He explained to Sanlam why he thought Mr H 
was still in time to bring the complaint. Sanlam then gave its consent to us investigating 
Mr Hs complaint so our investigator proceeded to look at the merits of the complaint.
After considering the complaint, based on all the information he had seen, the investigator 
didnt feel this was a complaint he could recommend upholding. He said:
it wasnt the role of this Service to decide what was the most suitable policy available 
to a customer at the point of sale  only whether they were sold an unsuitable 
investment
the first policy sold had life cover attached and it was perfectly normal for this to last 
as long as it did and he assumed Mr H was happy with the term as he paid the 
premiums for the full lifespan
he inferred from the fact that the plans were surrendered so close to Mr Hs 
retirement that this was the length of time he had hoped to invest for 
Mr H had been well able to afford the investments as it looked like he held ample 
cash deposits and other assets
although there was no detailed information about Mr Hs disposable income, what is 
known about his circumstances didnt suggest that these policies were unaffordable 
for him. 
All in all, our investigator concluded that Mr H had retirement planning in mind when he 
signed up to these policies and as they provided him with a savings plan until retirement, as 
well as life assurance, he didnt consider they had been unsuitable. 
Through the CMC acting on his behalf, Mr H told us he didnt agree with the investigator. He 
mainly said the regulatory requirements at the time required Sanlams representatives to 
recommend the best products from their product range. Mr H said he was sold the best 
products by way of commission generation for the firms representative but not the best by 
way of suitability for his needs. The CMC put things this way: Quite simply, it is our position 
that the firms representative made a commercial decision to sell inferior products  to 
maximise the commission received.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sanlam has consented to us looking into Mr Hs complaint about what happened when it 
sold these policies, so I am satisfied that I can consider the complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint. Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
Where the information is incomplete (as some of it is here) or facts arent agreed by the 
parties involved, I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely in the light of available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I must make reasonable assumptions where necessary. 
There is only limited information now available about Mr Hs financial situation when he took 
out these policies, but this isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Sanlam or Mr H to have kept full financial records dating back more than 
20 years. 
It seems not to be disputed that Mr H was married with no dependent children and in full 
time employment throughout. A fact find completed in 1991 (around the time he took out 
Policy A) shows that he had earned between £35,000 and £39,000 per year. He had 
£10,000 cash in deposit based savings and around £25,000 worth of investments in shares, 
fixed term investments and PEPs (a form of tax efficient savings at the time). Mr H had been 
in a secure job for a number of years and Ive seen nothing to suggest he wasnt expecting 
to work for a further 20 years or so up until his expected retirement age, giving Mr H plenty 
of earning potential.  
So I think this all suggests Mr H was well placed to be able to invest in these savings plans, 
especially bearing in mind that the monthly contributions seem to have been very modest 
compared to his earnings. 
I havent seen enough to make me think it likely that Mr H wouldnt have had enough 
disposable income and savings to give him capacity to absorb some investment loss without 
this impacting adversely on his day to day spending or overall financial security. 
I think Mr Hs investment in these policies was likely to be affordable over the planned 
lifespan of the products. It looks like he was taking advantage of his working years to provide 
additional financial security for his retirement, which seems like something a prudent investor 
in Mr Hs circumstances might have considered worthwhile. And as long as Mr H was 
working that was a feasible objective. Mr H was a financial services professional with some 
investment experience so I think it's fair to say he probably would have understood the need 
to consider future spending plans and any foreseeable costs/expenses arising when making 
investment decisions. Ive seen nothing to suggest these savings policies left him financially 
overstretched as he maintained the policies for very many years. 
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr H was in a strong enough financial situation to be able to 
invest in all the above savings policies.
I cant be sure about exactly what Mr H understood about risk. Sanlam doesnt have a record 
of any detailed discussion about the risk Mr H was prepared to take with these investments 
but Im satisfied this would most likely have been discussed. And looking at the available information, I think Mr H wouldve already had a reasonable understanding of the basic 
principle that risk was commensurate with growth potential. I think it was reasonable for 
Sanlam to recommend a risk-based investment to Mr H.
As far as I can see, these plans suited Mr Hs needs. It looks like the funds were invested in 
a range of equity based products. But he was an experienced investor and I think Mr H 
probably understood and accepted the risk of the funds that Sanlam advised him to invest in. 
In choosing to invest in these savings plans, I think Mr H balanced his investment objectives 
against the risk he felt comfortable taking with this money. And it seems to me that these 
savings policies reasonably reflected what I think Mr Hs likely objectives and risk attitude 
broadly would have been. Mr H hasnt suggested otherwise, so I dont feel I need to say 
more about the level of risk associated with the policies. 
Mr H had also taken out a life assurance benefit as part of the savings programme. As far as 
I can see, Mr H hasnt complained that this was unsuitable  and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest it was. 
All in all, I consider that these policies were suitable, given Mr Hs particular circumstances 
and financial situation. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken carefully into account what the CMC has said in 
response to the investigators view. But I have been provided with no evidence to support 
the suggestion that in recommending these savings plans Sanlam prioritised commission 
payments it might receive over the question of suitability. And I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint when I have found that Sanlams investment advice seems to me to have been 
suitable for Mr Hs needs and likely objectives and the policies were affordable for him. 
I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mr H but I hope that 
setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall conclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman