DRN-2080409
The complaint
Mr D complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim under his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D had a home insurance policy with AXA. He made a claim after his home was flooded in 
May 2018.
AXA accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjustor, who arranged for drying out and 
repair work to be carried out.
Mr D and his family were in temporary accommodation for about four months, with AXA 
covering the costs.
Around four months after returning home, Mr D contacted AXA to report on-going issues with 
the electrics in his property. He paid (£100) for an inspection by an independent electrician, 
who reported there were serious issues with the earlier repair work to the electrics.
AXA asked the loss adjustor and their electrical contractor to look into this, but they reported 
there was no problem with the work theyd carried out.
Mr D paid (£288) for a second independent inspection which confirmed the serious issues 
with the electrical work at the property.
AXA appointed a second loss adjustor to deal with the claim. After further inspections, they 
agreed the original work was sub-standard. A new schedule of works was agreed. And Mr D 
and his family had to move out of their home again, with the temporary accommodation 
again paid for by AXA.
Mr D complained to AXA about: the original work being sub-standard  and dangerous; the 
overall delays in the work being carried out satisfactorily; and AXAs refusal at first to accept 
that the original work was poor.
He was concerned that hed had to spend a large amount of time on the claim to get it 
handled satisfactorily. And that his family had been put to the inconvenience of a second 
spell in temporary accommodation unnecessarily.
AXA upheld the complaint and paid Mr D £1,100 in compensation.
Mr D complained to us because he didnt think this was sufficient to reflect the stress and 
inconvenience he and his family had experienced.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think AXA had done anything wrong in the way they 
handled Mr Ds complaint. He thought the compensation already provided was sufficient in 
all the circumstances.
Mr D disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres very little - if any - dispute about the facts in this case. AXA accept that the original 
attempt to repair the electrics in the property was sub-standard  and they arranged for the 
work to be re-done.
After his property flooded, Mr D and his family were always going to be inconvenienced, as 
repairs were carried out. And they were going to experience the stress and upset caused by 
the flood, the repair work and the move to temporary accommodation. And thats not AXAs 
fault.
However, if the work had been carried out to the required standard in the first place, Mr D 
and his family would have been out of their home once - for four months. They wouldnt have 
experienced the inconvenience and stress of moving to temporary accommodation for a 
second time.
They wouldnt have had to live in a house with sub-standard electrics  which Mr D tells us 
affected the lighting and heating  for several months, with very young children.
And Mr D wouldnt have had to spend time and money getting independent reports and 
chasing AXA to get them to accept there was a problem and agree the means to fix it.
So, thats essentially what AXA should compensate Mr D for. And my decision is solely 
about whether £1,100 is sufficient to do that.
Mr D says that he spent around eight days making phone calls and writing emails to AXA in 
order to get the claim dealt with.
He says he took eight days off work to be at home for inspections, discussions with builders 
and so on.
He says it took three days to find - and deal with administration for - the second temporary 
accommodation. And it took three more days to pack and unpack when he and his family 
moved out for the second time.
He wants AXA to pay him for lost time at £250 per day (22 days, so £5,500 in total)  which 
is what he earned at the time. And for the independent electricians reports he paid for.
Ill deal with the easy bit first. AXA have already paid for the second independent 
electricians report (£288). And Ive no doubt theyll pay for the first one too if he can provide 
them with an invoice.
As our investigator has pointed out to Mr D, we dont calculate compensation based on 
payment for time spent dealing with claims or complaints at the rate the complainant earns 
money.
That would lead to us awarding much higher compensation for higher earners  when the 
trouble, upset, stress and/or inconvenience theyd experienced was the same as for 
someone who earns less. So, Im looking in the round at the inconvenience, trouble and upset AXA caused Mr D as a 
result of the first set of repairs not being carried out very well.
I have no doubt this was a very frustrating experience for Mr D. And I have no doubt he and 
his family were very much inconvenienced by the second set of repairs and the second 
move to temporary accommodation. And by the time they spent living in their home when the 
electrics werent fully functioning.
But I dont think £1,100 is an unreasonable amount to offer in compensation for that, bearing 
in mind that AXA have, in the end, carried out the repair works to a satisfactory standard and 
did pay all costs associated with both spells in suitable alternative accommodation.
AXA have now met all their obligations under the policy. So, the compensation reflects the 
time it took to get to that point  and the inconvenience caused to Mr D along the way  
rather than a fundamental and lasting failure to provide Mr D with what he was entitled to 
under the policy.
Im really sorry Mr D and his family suffered this terrible experience as a result of the flooding 
 and that AXA added to their trouble and upset. But Im satisfied AXA have properly 
reflected their failings in the level of compensation already paid to Mr D.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman