DRN-4376465
The complaint
Mr M complains that London & Colonial Services Limited (L&C) didnt undertake sufficient 
due diligence on the firm, 1 Stop Financial Services (1 Stop), that introduced him to L&C. 
Mr M also complains that L&C didnt undertake sufficient due diligence on investments he 
made through his L&C Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). Further, that as a result of 
this hes suffered losses.
What happened
Involved parties
L&C
L&C is a regulated pension provider and administrator. Its authorised to arrange deals in 
investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, operate or wind up a personal 
pension scheme and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. 
The Resort  Group  (TRG)
TRG was founded in 2007. TRG owns a series of luxury resorts in Cape Verde. TRG sold 
luxury hotel rooms to UK consumers, either as whole entities or as fractional share 
ownership in a company. TRG wasnt regulated by the financial services regulator. This case 
involves investments in TRGs Llana Beach Resort.
Green Oil Plantations Australia Limited
Green Oil Plantations Australia Limited was founded in May 2010. Green Oil Plantations 
Australia Limited offered land leases for land pre-planted with green oil producing trees in 
Queensland Australia. Green Oil Plantations Australia Limited wasnt regulated by the 
financial services regulator.
Future Assets
Future Assets was an unregulated introducer, Mr P worked for Future Assets. Future Assets 
wasnt regulated by the financial services regulator.
1 Stop Financial Services (1 Stop)
At the time of the events in this complaint, 1 Stop was an independent financial adviser 
(IFA) authorised by the then regulator  the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later 
became the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Weve been provided with a copy of pages from 1 Stops entry on the FSA Register. This 
says that 1 Stops permissions included advising on investments (except on Pension 
Transfers and Pension Opt Outs). Other permissions 1 Stop held included arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments. 
In an April 2014 publication on its website, updated the following month, the FCA explained 
that:
(Mr R) and (Mr H), partners at 1 Stop Financial Services (1 Stop), have been 
banned by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) from performing any significant 
influence function in relation to any regulated activity. (Mr R) and (Mr H) had advised 
customers to switch into self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs), which enabled 
those customers to invest in unregulated and often high risk products, regardless of 
whether those products were suitable for the customers.
It was noted in the FCAs Final Notice of 17 April 2014 for Mr R that:
Mr R was one of two partners at 1 Stop, a firm that provided advice to customers 
seeking to transfer their pension to make unregulated investments via SIPPs. 
Between 1 October 2010 and 10 November 2012, Mr R failed to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that the business of 1 Stop complied with the relevant requirements 
and standards of the regulatory system. Specifically, Mr R failed to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that 1 Stop assessed the suitability of the underlying investment for 
the customer. Instead, 1 Stops business model focussed solely on providing advice 
on the most suitable SIPP wrapper for the underlying investment. 
Mr R failed to take reasonable steps to ensure that 1 Stop gathered sufficient 
information to be able to assess the suitability of the underlying investment for its 
customers. 
In particular, Mr R failed adequately to take reasonable steps to ensure that 1 Stop:
oestablished customers investment aims and objectives; 
oassessed customers attitude to risk; and 
oascertained customers knowledge and experience in relation to financial 
products.
Mr R also failed to take reasonable steps to ensure that 1 Stops customers 
understood the information provided to them, and therefore understood the key 
features of their investment, including both the operation of the SIPP that they were 
investing in (and the risks associated with that SIPP) and the underlying investment. 
As a result of Mr Rs actions, 1,959 of 1 Stops customers during the Relevant Period 
(the Relevant Period in the context of the contents of the Final Notice means the 
period from 1 October 2010 to 10 November 2012 inclusive) were at risk of having 
invested a total of £112,331,229, mostly from pension funds including some final 
salary schemes, into SIPPs which may not have been suitable for them.
Prior to and during the Relevant Period, 1 Stop shifted the focus of its business from 
advising on a mix of mortgage, insurance and standard retail investment products to 
providing advice in relation to SIPPs. In April 2010, mortgage and insurance advice 
accounted for 52% of the revenue earned by 1 Stop. By October 2012 97% of 1 
Stops revenue was derived from its SIPP business.
As a result of the risks posed by non-standard investments within the SIPPs, it was 
especially important that 1 Stop ensured that when making investment decisions, 
customers understood how their SIPPs operated and the potential increased risks 
associated with the underlying investments within them. 
It was also essential that 1 Stop assessed both the suitability of the SIPP wrapper 
and the proposed underlying investment for the customer, to ensure that customers 
only invested in investments which were suitable for them. 
The FCA had reviewed investments made by some of 1 Stops customers who 
received advice on SIPPs. This review included, but was not limited to, a review of 
the documentation recorded on 15 of 1 Stops customer files.
1 Stops SIPP advisory process A 1 Stop customer seeking advice on moving their pension would typically be one 
looking to invest their pension into an unregulated product such as an overseas 
property investment. Such customers would typically have been introduced to the 
investment product by an unregulated Introducerwho would, on behalf of the 
underlying investment company, present marketing materials and/or provide 
presentations to the customer on which the customer based their decision to invest. 
The customer would then be introduced by the Introducer to 1 Stop in order to obtain 
advice on using their pension to facilitate the investment via a SIPP. During the 
Relevant Period, every customer was referred to 1 Stop by an Introducer. 
Upon referral to 1 Stop, the customer would: 
oComplete a brief fact find/pension profiler questionnaire document that included  
high level questions about their investment aims, objectives, attitude to risk 
(ATR), knowledge and experience of financial products. In some cases, the fact 
find would be completed by the Introducer for the customer with no input from 1 
Stop. 
oReceive 1 Stops complimentary pension review report, setting out details of 
consumers existing pensions and projected yield. 
oAt the same time as the pension review report, or shortly thereafter, receive 1 
Stops suitability report, which contained 1 Stops recommendation for the most 
suitable SIPP wrapper for the proposed investment. Typically, when selecting the 
most suitable SIPP for the customer, 1 Stop assessed, amongst other things, the 
set up and ongoing fees of the SIPP provider, the standard of administrative 
assistance and whether the SIPP was able to invest into the underlying 
investment product.
oReceive a SIPP application pack that would enable the customer to purchase a 
SIPP from the SIPP Operator recommended by 1 Stop. This application pack 
would be submitted to the SIPP Operator, processed and then the customers 
pension funds would be transferred. Those funds would then be used to 
purchase the underlying investment.
Typically, 1 Stop would send the documents outlined above to the customer without 
providing any further explanation and/or clarification. 
The advisory model established at 1 Stop by Mr R and his partner didnt take into 
account any consideration of the suitability for the customer of the underlying 
investment within the SIPP. 
1 Stops customer documentation contained numerous disclaimers that as a 
business, 1 Stop didnt advise on, or have any involvement in considering, the 
underlying investment. Mr R himself confirmed that, all we would be doing is 
looking at a suitable SIPP that they could transfer their pension into a SIPP that 
would accept that particular investment.
As a result of this deficient business model, all 1,959 of 1 Stops SIPP customers 
were at risk of investing their monies into an investment which may not have been 
suitable for them.
Mr R confirmed that 1 Stops customers were stated as having a High ATR because 
of the types of underlying investment that the customers were investing into through 
their SIPPs. A customers ATR was inferred from their proposed underlying 
investment, as opposed to 1 Stop taking steps to confirm that the customer was 
willing to accept a high level of risk in their investment/to confirm whether that 
investment was suitable for the customer.
Mr R confirmed that he didnt establish a customers knowledge and understanding of 
financial services products. Similarly, Mr R confirmed that he didnt take any steps to 
establish the customers knowledge and understanding of the underlying investment 
product beyond the fact that the customer had confirmed they wanted to invest into it. Further, the business model established required no further steps to be taken to 
confirm the customers knowledge and experience of financial products.
At the FCAs request, 1 Stop voluntarily varied its permissions, such that with effect 
from 10 November 2012, 1 Stop was no longer permitted to carry on any regulated 
activities. On 14 March 2013, 1 Stop voluntarily applied to cancel its permissions.
A number of similar points to those Ive mentioned above were also referenced in Mr Hs 
FCA Final Notice of 17 April 2014. It was also noted in Mr Hs Final Notice that Mr H 
confirmed statements in the suitability report regarding the customers high level of 
understanding of financial services products related solely to the customers understanding 
of the underlying investment. Mr H also confirmed that the customers understanding of that 
underlying investment product would be what he perceived to be as high, based on the 
customer having received promotional material from the Introducer. However, the business 
model established required no further steps to be taken to confirm the customers knowledge 
and experience of financial products, including taking no further steps to confirm whether the 
customer actually understood the promotional material theyd been given.
What happened?
Weve been provided with a signed copy of a 1 Stop client agreement, the agreement is a 
version from March 2011 and its been signed by Mr M on 12 July 2011. Its noted in the 
agreement that, unless confirmed in writing to the contrary, 1 Stop would assume that the 
client didnt wish to place any restrictions on the advice it proffered. 1 Stop was an 
independent adviser and would advise on products from the whole of market.
Weve also been provided with a copy of a 1 Stop Keyfacts document, this is a version from 
January 2010. Its noted in the Keyfacts document that 1 Stop is authorised and regulated by 
the FSA. The document explains that 1 Stop offered investment products from the whole of 
market and that it would advise and make recommendations for clients after it had assessed 
their needs.
A 1 Stop Personal Financial Questionnaire for Mr M was completed by Mr R, this is dated 12 
July 2011. Amongst other things, its noted in this document that:
Mr M was looking to plan for a secure retirement.
Mr M had an external investment opportunity presented to him for the purchase of a 
hotel room style investment in Cape Verde and also investments into alternative 
investments.
Mr M was unhappy with the charges and lack of growth on his existing pension plans 
and they didnt allow investments into self chosen investments which is they (sic) 
key objective seeing their chosen choice of their external alternative investments 
path.
1 Stop had been asked to conduct research and give recommendations on a suitable 
SIPP that would accept such investments.
Clients areaware that the investment which has been self chosen to sit within the 
SIPP to be arranged are unregulated and not covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.
Mr M accepted a high degree of risk for his pension planning.
The investments that are to be chosen for the SIPP are not the responsibility of 1 
Stop and no advice has been given on investments that will be held in the SIPP in 
any way or form.
The clients wanted a flexible SIPP contract that would allow full access to funding 
alternative investments.Advice issues were conducted around available SIPP 
companies that will allow these investment areas.  Mr M signed a declaration at the end of the Personal Financial Questionnaire on 12 August 
2011.
A 1 Stop Pension Review report dated 12 July 2011, and prepared for Mr M by Mr R, 
records, amongst other things, that:
Mr M had four existing pension plans without guarantees and with a combined 
transfer value of a little under £105,000.
1 Stops fee was a one off fee, deductible from the fund value at the outset, to cover 
the set up advice, recommendations and liability for advising on the course of action 
and a suitable SIPP provider.
Due to the volume of new business it had introduced to L&C, 1 Stop had been able to 
negotiate lower fees on Mr Ms behalf.
It had chosen L&C has a suitable SIPP provider based on the funds that Mr M had to 
transfer and the type of investment portfolio hed chosen. 
The L&C SIPP offered full access to alternative investments.
There were strong indications that switching to a SIPP would be more advantageous 
for Mr M.
The switch would allow Mr M to invest into the investments that hed chosen, and 
which his former schemes wouldnt allow.
Moving the monies to the SIPP would give Mr M flexibility, control and a choice of 
future investments, including alternative investments.
If Mr M decided to transfer a full report would be provided covering the advantages 
and disadvantages of doing so.
Weve been provided with a document titled Research Notes for: [Mr M] dated 20 July 
2011. From the contents it appears that this was an internal 1 Stop note. Amongst other 
things, its recorded in the note that:
Mr M expressed a wish to invest in a property investment with TRG in Cape Verde, 
with which 1 Stop had no involvement. The investment was an off plan hotel room 
style investment.
Only L&C and one other SIPP provider deemed that investment permissible.
The duty under best advice rules was to ensure Mr M had a SIPP with a competitive 
charging structure and L&C was the most competitively priced of the two SIPP 
providers.
Mr M signed a 1 Stop document declaration form on 12 August 2011 to confirm that hed 
received a terms of business letter/client agreement, a Keyfacts document/personal 
illustration, a Key Facts about our services document and a record of suitability letter.
L&C received a completed application form for Mr M to open a new SIPP. The IFA details 
section of the application form records the IFA firm as 1 Stop, along with 1 Stops FSA 
authorisation number. Its recorded that initial remuneration of £1,495 would be paid to the 
IFA. Its also stated in the form that around £104,000 would be transferred into the SIPP 
from policies with other providers, but no initial post-transfer investments are recorded in the 
form. Mr M signed the form on 12 August 2011.
Amongst other things, its noted in a L&C Investment in Dunas Beach form Mr M signed on 
12 August 2011 that:
Mr M wanted to invest in a ground floor Delux Orchid Suite.
The purchase price was a little under £70,000.It was understood that the initial deposit could be lost if, for any reason, there wasnt 
enough cash available to pay the balance when due.
L&C wasnt authorised to give financial or investment advice. 
L&C had obtained legal advice in its capacity as trustee, in order to assess the risks 
of ownership and to ensure that appropriate title was attained.
Advice L&C had obtained didnt cover the investment merits, marketability or value 
of the property.
The investor had reviewed a due diligence report obtained in January 2010 and the 
promissory contract of purchase and sale.
The investor had obtained whatever information, reports, legal and other advice they 
required regarding investments, including the potential income and the associated 
costs and expenses which may fall to be paid.
The investor would indemnify L&C in respect of any loss claim action damage L&C 
incurred or suffered in respect of the investment.
The investor (here Mr M) wished to proceed with the investment.
A L&C Dunas Beach scheme borrowing form was also signed by Mr M on 12 August 
2011. Details of sums to be borrowed, and the lender theyd be borrowed from, were left 
blank. But it was noted in the form that:
This was an unusual investment structure involving property in a foreign 
jurisdiction, with a long period between the contract being entered into and 
completion, when the balance (including any scheme borrowing) would be due.
There were no standard or previously agreed terms with any potential lender.
Where scheme borrowing was needed, it was for the investor to choose a lender 
and obtain an offer, this would then be sent to L&C to review.
Weve not been provided with a contract for Mr Ms Llana Beach investment that has been 
signed by the vendor. However, weve previously been provided with a copy of a contract 
signed by the vendor (in that case Llana Beach Hotel, S.A.) in the complaint that was the 
subject of published decision DRN-3587366. In that complaint the signed contract 
explained that a total of 65% (consisting of a 45% down payment and an additional 20%) 
was paid when the contract is signed. Another 30% was then payable on the conclusion of 
the construction, with the vendor writing off the final 5%. Thered also be a discount each 
year, equivalent to 3% of the cost of the 45% down payment, until the earlier of 3 years or 
the date of delivery of the keys.
Further, the contract explained that the established date for the conclusion of the 
construction was no later than 31 December 2014. And that if the purchaser didnt make 
any instalment payment that was due the vendor may (at their discretion and amongst 
other options), sixty days after the due date, terminate the contract and retain all amounts 
paid under its terms.
While weve not seen a copy of the contract the vendor signed in Mr Ms case, I think its 
more likely than not that a not dissimilar contract would have been completed in respect of 
Mr Ms investment in the Llana Beach Resort.
Weve also been provided with a copy of a 5-year project Green Oil Plantation Australia 
Lease Application and Buyback Contract form that Mr M signed on 12 August 2011 and 
which L&C signed on 1 November 2011. The form records Mr M as the applicant and the 
agent as a Mr P of Future Assets. The form records that Mr M wishes to purchase a 5-year 
land lease and Section 3 of the application records that Mr M is looking to lease plots CM, 
AN, AM, that this amounts to a land area of one and a quarter hectare with 2,315 trees for 
a total amount of £50,000. Further, that an additional £550 would be included for payment of legal fees. The monies to fund the investment were to come from L&C. It was explained in 
the form that:
Details were being provided for those willing to purchase a 5-year land lease pre-
planted with green oil producing trees (Millettia Pinnata) in Queensland Australia. 
Millettia produces green oil and by-products.
Investors could do what they wished with the land and trees during the lease. 
The company offering land leases, and an optional buyback management contract, 
was Green Oil Plantations Australia Limited (GOPA), a private company limited by 
shares registered under the laws of England and Wales.
The land lease was fully registered with the land registry in Australia.  
The leaseholder had the option to enter a buyback management contract for the 
purposes of having their trees purchased by GOPA, GOPA would buy all the trees 
back from the leaseholder at the fixed price of £38.88 each. The buyback price for 
the trees would be paid on the fifth anniversary of the contract date.
Where a buyback management contract was entered into, GOPA would manage and 
exploit trees produce for five years for the purpose of generating a revenue. GOPA 
would also be responsible for running costs and taxes associated with the land/trees. 
GOPA would take out comprehensive insurance to cover crop reinstatement and loss 
of income. This also covered the leaseholders loss of income.
If investors felt that financial advice was needed, they could contact their IFA.
The grant of the lease wasnt a regulated investment under the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000. The GOPA lease wasnt an investment regulated by the FSA.
Mr M and L&C also signed a form so as to enter into the buyback management contract. It 
was noted, amongst other things, in the contract that:
The risk of loss of, or damage to, the crop would pass to GOPA on the execution of 
the buyback agreement but title to the crop would only pass to GOPA when the price 
together with all interest had been paid in full to the owner.
Until the price and interest had been paid, title to the crop would remain with the 
owner, provided that GOPA was entitled during the term of the agreement to sell or 
exploit in any way the produce of the crop and to retain as its own any consideration 
received.
The price would be paid in full to the owner by GOPA upon the earliest of a number 
of provisions set out in the agreement. 
Until the price was paid in full, GOPA would pay annual interest to the owner at the 
rate of 14% a year, GOPA could defer payment until the determination of the 
underlease.
GOPA would insure the payment to the owner throughout the duration of the 
agreement and until its full payment.
Mr Ms representatives provided us with a typed declaration Mr M signed on 12 August 
2011, my reading of the typed declaration is that it originated from 1 Stop. The declaration 
was titled Green Oil Investment Purchases via a SIPP. Amongst other things, this 
document said that:
The Green Oil investment had been presented to him as an investment opportunity 
by Future Assets.
This was a non-regulated investment which wasnt authorised or regulated by the 
FSA, so investors might not be able to make a complaint or claim any compensation.
Responsibility for the investments success didnt involve 1 Stop.1 Stop hadnt been involved in the decision of proceeding with the investment, the 
suitability of using pension funds to facilitate the purchase had been deemed 
appropriate by the investor (here Mr M). 
No comments would be made on the suitability of the investment but it was an 
investment that was typically suited to sophisticated investors.
The investment would be deemed to be an instructed investment request and it was 
recommended that the investor undertake their own full due diligence.
1 Stop had researched and advised on a suitable SIPP that the investment could be 
held in and the reasons for using the chosen SIPP provider were explained in a 
suitability report.
It was requested that the investor confirms and agrees that 1 Stops responsibility 
was only with assisting with the provision of a suitable SIPP provider.  
Mr Ms representatives provided us with a second typed declaration Mr M signed on 12 
August 2011. This one was titled Harlequin Property Investment Declaration Purchases via 
a SIPP. The points Ive highlighted above from the first declaration were also repeated in 
the second declaration, but with reference to Harlequin rather than Green Oil. Mr M didnt in 
fact invest in Harlequin after the SIPP was established.  
L&C wrote to Mr M on 31 August 2011 and acknowledged receipt of his application.
L&C wrote to Mr M again on 13 September 2011 to confirm his SIPP was in force. L&C also 
acknowledged receipt of transfers into the SIPP of a little under £100,000.
Weve been provided of a copy of some emails from 6 and 7 October 2011 between 1 Stop 
and L&C. In the correspondence L&C and 1 Stop discuss an investment into TRG. 1 Stop 
notes that Mr M had agreed to the Llana Beach Resort investment application it had 
submitted. 1 Stop says that its received confirmation for L&C to pay the full deposit to TRG 
and it asks L&C to send funds to TRG as soon as possible. 1 Stop confirmed that the 
payment option chosen by Mr M was 65%.1 Stop also asks L&C for a breakdown of the 
SIPP funds, so it can confirm with Mr M that hes happy for the remainder of available funds 
to go into Green Oil. 
Weve been provided with a copy of some emails between 1 Stop and L&C from 14 October 
2011 to 1 November 2011. In the emails L&C and 1 Stop discuss the remaining funds 
available in the SIPP to invest in Green Oil, this results in 1 Stop instructing that £50,000 be 
invested in Green Oil.  
GOPA wrote to Mr M on 9 November 2011 and said that:
Green Oil Plantations Limited would grant Mr M a 5-year land lease for an area of 
1.25 hectares.
Where an investment was via a SIPP, the SIPP provider would sign and would hold 
the title of the land and trees for the term of the lease.
Once the lease was signed it would be forwarded to a solicitor in Australia who would 
have it officially registered at the land registry. The final lease title would be held by 
Mr Ms SIPP provider and a copy would be sent to him.
Mr M had indicated that he wanted Green Oil Plantations Limited to manage his trees 
for the term of the lease and for the purpose of receiving an annual return.
The plantations and Mr Ms returns were fully insured for his protection.
Mr Ms 80% return plus his capital would be paid in 2016 on the anniversary of his 
investment.In January 2013 Green Oil Plantations Limiteds Management Team wrote to L&C and said 
that it had decided to halt all sales of the Green Oil Plantations investment. 
Green Oil Plantations Limited subsequently entered administration and administrators wrote 
out to L&C on 17 October 2013, confirming that they were proposing Green Oil Plantations 
Limited enter into a company voluntary agreement. Further correspondence relating to this 
was sent by the administrators and, on 15 October 2014, the liquidators made a payment of 
a little over £1,200 to L&C in respect of Mr Ms Green Oil investment.   
Weve been provided with a document titled Consolidation Breakdown for [Mr M]. This 
records that Mr M had originally purchased a 50% share in a plot at the Llana Beach Resort 
for a little over £38,500. But looking at the purchase price and the sum paid, it appears that 
Mr M actually paid 65% of the price (which ties in with the email correspondence Ive 
referenced above between L&C and 1 Stop in which 1 Stop referred to a 65% share). The 
consolidation breakdown continued to note that the new property would be a 17% share in a 
different plot at Llana Beach, and the discounted cost of this was shown as being equivalent 
to the sum Mr M had paid towards his share in the initial plot. I can see that fees were then 
paid from Mr Ms SIPP for property consolidation in August 2015.
A transaction history for Mr Ms L&C SIPP records, amongst other things, that:
A little under £100,000 was transferred into the SIPP from Mr Ms previous pension 
arrangements in September 2011.
A little under £1,500 was paid as an IFA fee in September 2011.
A little under £39,000 was invested in TRG in October 2011.
A little over £50,000 was invested in Green Oil Plantations in November 2011.
Fees were paid for property consolidation in August 2015 and there was a fractional 
Dunas/Llana Beach fee paid in January 2017. 
Mr M made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) about 1 Stop. 
In a FSCS claim form that Mr M signed on 19 August 2015, it was explained that Mr M was 
advised to transfer his pension to a SIPP to allow investment in alternative investments. 
Further, that Mr M wasnt warned about the potential risks with the investments and that if 
the risks had been explained properly he would never have gone ahead with the transfer. 
Mr M explained to the FSCS that a Mr P of Future Assets and a Mr R of 1 Stop were present 
at a meeting to discuss his pension, that hed told them he didnt want to lose the value of 
what he had and that he was assured that this wouldnt happen. Mr M said that he was told 
that he would benefit from better growth than he was receiving and that there was no 
mention of the fact that he could lose everything. 
It was also noted in the FSCS claim form that Mr M had, previously, worked as a protection 
adviser between 1991 and 1995.
The FSCS upheld Mr Ms claim and calculated his losses as a little under £100,000. The 
FSCS paid Mr M £50,000, which was its compensation limit at the time. The FSCS 
subsequently gave Mr M a reassignment of rights to enable him to pursue a complaint 
against L&C.
In his complaint to L&C, Mr Ms representatives noted, amongst other things, that:
L&C had permitted a transfer to an unsuitable pension which then facilitated the 
purchase of an unsuitable, high risk, illiquid investment.Mr M wasnt a sophisticated investor, he had a low risk profile and little investment 
experience.
L&C was required to carry out effective due diligence on investments it permitted.
L&C also had to check the suitability of firms introducing business to it.
L&C failed to verify the integrity of 1 Stop.
If L&C had proper controls in place concerns would have been raised, amongst other 
things, about:
oHigh levels of business being introduced by the same firm.
oThe advising firm recommending the same product and similar investments 
repeatedly.
oClients being in a very different location to the adviser.
oClear trends appearing.
If L&C had basic controls in place it should have rejected Mr Ms business.
In response to Mr Ms complaint L&C said, amongst other things, that:
L&C is the sole trustee and administrator of Mr Ms SIPP. 
L&C doesnt manage any investments within the SIPP.
1 Stop provided Mr M with the initial product, transfer and investment advice.
L&C accepts SIPP applications submitted by regulated financial advisers. Its the
responsibility of the adviser to advise on the suitability of the proposed investments. 
Theres no requirement for clients to take advice, or, if they do, to follow it.
L&Cs checks on the FSA's Register showed that 1 Stop was authorised and 
regulated for the provision of financial advice.
L&C was entitled to expect that 1 Stop would have given regulated advice on the 
suitability of the SIPP itself and on the intended investment.
The member (here Mr M) has the power to choose investments and L&C has only 
limited powers of veto of any investment.
L&C is an execution-only SIPP provider.
The provisions of the SIPP Trust Deed limit the fiduciary duties that might otherwise 
apply to a trustee. The default statutory duty of care defined in the Trustee Act 2000 
is excluded by the terms of the trust as its inconsistent with the purpose of a SIPP.
L&Cs role is to satisfy itself that the investment is acceptable from an HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) point of view and to take reasonable skill and care to establish 
that the seller has good title.
Amongst other things, Mr Ms representatives have said to us that:
Mr M was introduced to Mr P by a person who had set up some life cover for Mr M 
previously.
Mr M was introduced to the investments by Mr P, who it understands was acting as 
an unregulated introducer. 
Mr M met with Mr P, and a Mr R of 1 Stop, at a hotel. They discussed Mr Ms 
situation and Mr M said that he didn't want to take any risks or lose any value as this 
was everything he had for the future.
Mr M invested through L&C on the advice of Mr P and Mr R.
Mr M didnt carry out any research on the investments, which were presented as safe 
investments with good, solid returns.
The investment in TRG was presented as providing growth on the asset and a 
regular income from the rental of the room, it was sold to Mr M as being a sure thing. 
Mr P and Mr R seemed knowledgeable, and because hed been referred by someone 
he knew, Mr M trusted what he was told.The business with 1 Stop was as a result of Mr P, Mr M had no other dealings with 1 
Stop before or after the transfer.
Mr P introduced Mr M to Mr R, but Mr P continued to be involved in the transfer and 
investment discussions.
Mr M only remembers meeting with 1 Stop on the one occasion. 
Mr M was told that transferring his pension monies would help him to grow his fund 
better.
The level of risk associated with investments wasnt disclosed to Mr M, they were 
sold as a sure thing. 
These monies were Mr Ms only provision for his retirement and he didnt have 
capacity for their loss.
Mr M believed at the time that L&Cs role was to look after the investments and the 
cash held in his pension. 
There isnt a 1 Stop suitability report within the documents Mr M provided and no 
suitability report was available in the documents Mr Ms representatives obtained 
from 1 Stop when it made a subject access request.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint, the investigator said that L&C shouldnt 
have accepted Mr Ms business from 1 Stop and concluded that the complaint should be 
upheld. 
Mr M accepted the investigators findings. L&C didnt accept the investigators findings and 
its representatives noted, amongst other things, in their response that:
As far as L&C is aware, 1 Stop advised Mr M on the establishment of the SIPP and 
the Green Oil investment in 2011. 
L&C also has correspondence indicating that 1 Stop was involved in the Llana Beach 
Resort investment.
In his SIPP application form Mr M informed L&C that hed authorised his financial 
adviser to act on his behalf in dealing with the investments and correspondence 
shows that 1 Stop instructed L&C to purchase the investments.
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint if dealing with it would impair the effective 
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The Court would be a more appropriate jurisdiction than the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for this complaint and Mr Ms evidence, including his position on causation, 
should be tested in Court.
The wider impact of the findings, on L&C and the wider SIPP industry, are such that 
the claim should be subjected to full judicial scrutiny.
Alternatively, the Pension Ombudsman (TPO) would be a more appropriate 
jurisdiction given its specialist knowledge of pension complaints. The Memorandum 
of Understanding between the Financial Ombudsman Service and TPO contains a 
clause which states that the Financial Ombudsman Service and TPO should take 
reasonable steps to co-operate and exchange best practice around the resolution of 
similar complaints. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service largely ignores the disclaimers contained in the 
SIPP and investment applications.
The starting point should be to give primacy to the contract agreed between the 
parties.
The contract here was made on an execution-only basis; L&C accepted no 
responsibility for checking the quality of the investment business, much less the 
decision to transfer and invest. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is imposing a duty on L&C that goes far beyond 
what was agreed by the parties and which is not provided for either at law or in 
guidance or rules.The Financial Ombudsman Service states that the regulators reports and guidance 
provided examples of good practice observed by the FCA and FSA. This assumes 
that the examples of good practice would have been known to the wider SIPP 
industry at the time of the transaction. But they werent, due to having been published 
after the event, with the exception of any examples from the 2009 Thematic Review  
but these examples didnt constitute formal guidance. 
The examples of good practice didnt have the force of guidance and there was no 
obligation to follow them. 
The investments were exactly as advertised; the Llana Beach investment was an 
illiquid investment in real property with no established secondary market. Mr M was 
aware of this when he made the investment. Good title was obtained, and the 
investments produced a return. Returns ceased with the onset of the pandemic, 
however, the Llana Beach Resort is trading again and rooms are available to book. 
The Llana Beach Resort investments book value has increased and its continued to 
provide a return. 
Green Oil was a company registered in England and Wales and represented by a 
reputable firm of solicitors. Title was obtained in relation to the plots of land and 
registration took place via an Australian firm of solicitors. A letter from Green Oil to 
Mr M set out the basis upon which the investment worked and the exit strategy, 
including the buyback option.
Mr M was aware the investments were high risk unregulated investments and there 
was nothing preventing a SIPP provider from accepting such business.
L&C couldnt reject such business without making a value judgment on its suitability 
for each individual client, something which fell outside of its expertise and well 
outside of the terms of the contract.
An execution-only SIPP provider cannot reject such business without completing a 
full suitability assessment. In the alternative, no SIPP provider could ever accept high 
risk investments into a SIPP.
The introduction to L&C was from a regulated adviser, but there was no restriction on 
business being accepted from an unregulated introducer.
It was the responsibility of 1 Stop as the financial adviser to advise Mr M on the 
suitability of both the product and the proposed investment.
In compliance with COBS 11.2.19R, L&C acted on Mr Ms written instructions.
L&C did have an obligation to conduct due diligence on 1 Stop prior to accepting 
business from it and L&C carried out the following in 2010:
oA review of the FSA Register to confirm that 1 Stop was regulated by the FSA to 
provide advice on pension transfers and investments.
oA review of 1 Stop's publicly available information on Companies House 
(including checks on the individual directors as well as the legal entity).
oChecks on directors which amounted to internet searches of publicly available 
information on 1 Stop and its key personnel.
1 Stop's original agency application was made in December 2009 which also 
contained the following information:
o1 Stop had been in business since November 2004.
oThe key individuals were Mr R and Mr H, they were regulated to provide financial 
advice. Mr H had 19 years of experience of advising on pensions and Mr R had 
11 years of the same.
L&C wasnt aware of the changes in 1 Stop's business model, since the original 
application was made in 2009 and it wasnt unreasonable that L&C was unaware of 
this. 
The October 2013 FCA guidance on SIPPs and the FCA Final Notice against 1 Stop 
dated April 2014 were both published after the fact and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is using the benefit of hindsight.Had the October 2013 FCA guidance and the FCA Final Notice been available at the 
date that the due diligence was conducted, L&C may have come to a different 
conclusion regarding 1 Stop's involvement. At the time, there was no requirement for 
a SIPP provider to broaden the scope of its due diligence to include an 
understanding of an adviser's business model and, even if it did, the information 
identifying 1 Stop retail clients as investing primarily in high risk, esoteric 
investments, was only made available in the FCA Final Notice in April 2014.
The investigator said that Mr Ms introduction was likely the tenth introduction L&C 
received from 1 Stop. But its clear that the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt 
have accurate information on the number of introductions L&C received from 1 Stop 
ahead of Mr Ms application.
The Pension Review Report stating that 1 Stop didnt provide advice on the 
underlying investment is at odds with Mr Ms submission that 1 Stop provided him 
with investment advice and this was also the conclusion reached by the FSCS. 
Mr M was offered advice on the pension transfer and investment, if he maintains that 
advice wasnt provided then he refused that advice.
L&C considers that 1 Stop did advise on the investment, and that this is evidenced by 
1 Stop supplying L&C with a copy of the investment application form alongside the 
SIPP application form.
The level of due diligence imposed by the Financial Ombudsman Service goes far 
beyond what was agreed between the parties, and beyond any expectations that Mr 
M had of L&C.
Theres no reason why L&C should have had any concerns about accepting business 
from 1 Stop. 1 Stop was an FSA regulated entity and L&C was able to take comfort 
from that. 
A SIPP providers role isnt to make a value judgement on the investment, its to 
obtain good title to the investment and hold it within a pension wrapper.
There was nothing requiring L&C to request information (or copies) of advice that had 
been provided and, in any event, L&C couldnt comment on this without potentially 
putting itself in breach of its permissions.
In Adams the Store First investment being high risk didnt make it manifestly 
unsuitable and the same is true of the Llana Beach/Green Oil investments. 
The standard that L&C should be held to in looking to ascertain whether there was a 
breach of duty is that of a reasonably competent SIPP provider, not whether it 
followed the best possible practice.
The Financial Ombudsman Service cherry picks from the case law. 
A breach of the Principles cannot, of itself, give rise to any cause of action at law.
The Financial Ombudsman Service makes no attempt to explain why the Principles 
have been relied on rather than the High Court decision in Adams, despite this 
decision forming a much more solid foundation for any consideration of a complaint 
against a SIPP provider.
The Principles fall to be construed in light of the COBS rules applicable to L&C, 
L&Cs regulatory permissions, L&Cs contractual arrangements and the statutory 
objective that consumers should take responsibility for their decisions.
Using any examples of guidance from publications that were published after the 
transactions complained about runs contrary to common sense and the position in 
Adams.
Regulatory publications cant alter the meaning, or the scope, of the obligations 
imposed by the Principles.
Many of the matters which the 2009 Thematic Review Report invites firms to 
consider are directed at firms providing advisory services.
Even if the 2009 Thematic Review Report had been statutory guidance made under 
the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) S.139A (which it wasnt), the breach of such statutory guidance wouldnt give rise to a claim for damages under the 
FSMA.
The FCAs Enforcement Guide says that Guidance is not binding on those to whom 
the FCAs rules apply. Nor are the variety of materials (such as case studies showing 
good or bad practice, FCA speeches and generic letters written by the FCA to Chief 
Executives in particular sectors) published to support the rules and guidance in the 
Handbook. Rather, such materials are intended to illustrate ways (but not the only 
ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant rules.
Duties imposed by the COBS cant all apply to all firms in all circumstances.
The COBS rules contain some provisions and obligations that dont apply to 
execution-only SIPP providers.
The Principles must necessarily be applied within the context of the specific duties 
imposed by the Rules, not the other way around.
L&C didnt have permissions to carry on the regulated activity of advising on 
investments and it hasnt provided advice on whether consumers should open, or 
transfer monies, into SIPPs or on the underlying investments.
The relationships in this case are similar to those in Adams.
At all times, Mr M was aware that L&C would act on an execution-only basis and 
would accept no responsibility for the quality of the investment business.
Amongst other things, the judge in Adams held that in order to identify the extent of 
the regulatory duties imposed on Carey, "one has to identify the relevant factual 
context and that "the key fact...in the context is the agreement into which the parties 
entered, which defined their roles in the transaction".
The judge also said that "a duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best 
interests of the client, who is to take responsibility for his own decisions, cannot be 
construed...as meaning that the terms of the contract should be overlooked, that the 
client is not to be treated as able to reach and take responsibility for his own 
decisions and that his instructions are not to be followed.
In Adams the FCA agreed that the function of a firm, as determined by contract, 
would govern what it had to do to comply with its duties under the FCA Handbook.
Insufficient weight has been given to contractual arrangements and the demarcation 
of roles and responsibilities. 
In suggesting that, notwithstanding the clear terms of the relevant contractual 
arrangements, L&C owed obligations of due diligence under the Principles, the 
reasoning of the investigators view runs wholly contrary to that in Adams.
Regardless of when due diligence was completed, Adams considered the duties of a 
SIPP provider under COBS at length and the findings of that case should be applied.
At the time of the transaction complained of there was no obligation on a customer to 
take advice on the transfer of a pension. And there was no obligation on L&C to 
ensure that advice was taken. Its not fair or reasonable to use the Principles to 
artificially impose a duty that goes beyond that accepted and agreed by the parties.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is attempting to circumvent the Adams decision. 
The investigator should have concluded that L&Cs duties to Mr M extended no 
further than those owed to the claimant in Adams.
The investigators view fails to have regard to the general principle that consumers 
should take responsibility for their decisions, the fundamental principle of freedom of 
contract and to the authority of Adams and Kerrigan v Elevate Credit International Ltd 
[2020] C.T.L.C. 161. 
It was common practice for SIPP providers to accept investments such as those this 
complaint concerns, and another SIPP provider would have accepted Mr Ms 
application.
L&C is left to carry the can as its the last entity standing, this isnt fair or 
reasonable.
The Financial Ombudsman Service has contacted Mr M to ask a series of questions. Its procedurally irregular, and highly inappropriate, that a fact-sensitive matter such 
as this should be decided on the papers.
Important questions have been put to, and answers received from, Mr M without the 
Financial Ombudsman Service having had the opportunity to hear directly the 
responses to those questions or L&C having been invited to be part of the process.
It requests that the Financial Ombudsman Service holds an oral hearing or, as a 
minimum, we should provide copies of all communications passing between us and 
Mr M.
Following the investigators view on the case, L&C provided us with further documents 
relating to the due diligence it had undertaken. Ive referenced the contents of some of these 
below. 
A copy of an L&C intermediary application form has been signed and dated on 6 December 
2009. Its noted, amongst other things, in the form that the IFAs at 1 Stop who would sell or 
supervise sales of pension were Mr H (who had a little under 20 years experience of 
selling/advising on pensions) and Mr R (who had a little over 10 years experience of 
selling/advising on pensions).
A printout from the FSA Register, the printout appears to be from 16 December 2009. Its 
noted in the printout that 1 Stop had been authorised since November 2004. Its been 
handwritten towards the bottom of the printout not authorised for pension transfers & opt 
outs.
A letter from L&C to 1 Stop from 22 December 2009, in which L&C confirms that its 
approving 1 Stops agency application and that its enclosing intermediary agreements to be 
signed and returned.
An intermediary agreement between L&C and 1 Stop dated 22 December 2009. The copy 
weve been provided hasnt been signed by 1 Stop but, amongst other things, its noted in 
the agreement that:
The Intermediary complies with the requirements of the UK Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 and is regulated for this purpose by the FSA. 
The Intermediary agrees to comply with the regulatory and legal obligations for its 
continued authorisation, will comply with all appropriate rules of any self-regulatory 
organisation or professional body of which it is a member and agrees to inform L&C 
of any failure to do so. The Intermediary undertakes to inform L&C if its authorisation 
lapses or is suspended or withdrawn.
L&C reserves the right at any time to cease to accept business from the 
Intermediary, or to refuse any particular business proposed without giving reason.
A Vetting of Intermediary Applications form for 1 Stop, this recorded, amongst other things, 
that:
An FSA check had been completed.
The date an agreement had been received from 1 Stop was 11 January 2010 (Ive 
read this as referring to a completed copy of the intermediary agreement).
Following the investigators view we put some questions to Mr M. This included questions 
about his time as an adviser which, as mentioned above, Mr M had referenced in his claim 
form to the FSCS. Amongst other things, it was noted in the responses that:Mr M was previously employed as a tied agent and was only able to advise on a 
limited product range, including simple pension or life insurance products with 
premiums typically around £20-£50 per month. 
Mr M was also able to give investment advice but this had limits, when advising risk 
was assessed by the numbers 1, 2 and 3. 1 was low risk, 2 was medium risk and 3 
was high risk. Mr M was only able to recommend products in category 1. 
Mr M then had a career change and moved into a different area of work where he 
has remained since.
Due to his limited knowledge and lack of experience, Mr M had clearly stated that he 
was only interested in low risk investments. 
It was explained to Mr M that the values of any investment can go down or up, but he 
was told that this was a barn door or no brainer investment. 
It was mentioned that the Australian Government had made a commitment to 
investing in greener energy, such that the Green Oil investment would be safe and 
well supported.
While the TRG investment didnt have the same reassurances, it was deemed as 
safe as investing in property. 
Before signing the final documents Mr M was reassured that his pension transfer 
would be low risk and that 1 Stop had done the same for a number of clients with 
much larger funds. 
Mr M doesnt have a copy of a suitability report from 1 Stop and hes provided all 
documents held in relation to 1 Stop. 
Mr M isnt aware of any guarantees being given up when transferring away from his 
existing pension plans.
Mr M only met Mr R once, its believed this was on 12 August 2011, and this was to 
answer any questions he might have and then to complete the necessary paperwork.
The pension transfer had been well discussed before this point and the meeting was 
purely to get the necessary paperwork completed and the pension transfer 
underway, previous conversations had taken place with Mr P.
The paperwork wasnt given to Mr M to take away for reading or sent to him for 
review, it was just presented for the necessary signatures to allow the transfer to 
proceed.
He didnt receive any payment when transferring his pensions to the SIPP or when 
proceeding with any of the investments.
Mr M believed that Mr R was there to give him suitable financial advice for his 
circumstances.
Mr M was presented with numerous documents for signature. All were marked where 
signature was required. No time was given for him to read or review the documents. 
And Mr M had no reason to believe that what he was being told didnt correspond 
with the documents he was signing.
Mr M said that hed not knowingly signed any indemnity forms. Further, that if hed 
read a form detailing that any of the investments were high risk, he wouldnt have 
proceeded. 
The process adopted by 1 Stop was for its financial gain and showed no concern for 
the welfare of clients.
If L&C had refused to allow the TRG/Green Oil investments to go through It is very 
likely that I would have kept the funds in the current pensions as I didnt consider 
myself savvy enough to explore further options.
Mr M doesnt remember anything to do with Harlequin. He only remembers 
discussions on the Green Oil and TRG investments. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision on this complaint and I concluded Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. In 
brief, I concluded that:I dont consider that it would be more suitable for this complaint to be determined 
by TPO and Ive decided not to exercise my discretion to refer it to them.
Im not required to dismiss this complaint and Im not exercising my discretion 
to dismiss it.
Im satisfied that Im able to fairly determine Mr Ms complaint without 
convening a hearing.
L&C should have been conducting checks  due diligence  on introducers and 
investments to make informed decisions about accepting business. This obligation 
was a continuing one.
There was a significant risk of consumer detriment associated with the introductions 
L&C received from 1 Stop. 
L&C didnt undertake appropriate steps, or draw reasonable conclusions, mindful of 
the information that would have been available to it had it undertaken adequate due 
diligence. 
L&C didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its affairs 
responsibly, or treat Mr M fairly by accepting his business from 1 Stop. 
L&C didnt meet its obligations or good industry practice at the relevant times, and 
allowed Mr M to be put at significant risk of detriment as a result.
Its fair and reasonable for L&C to compensate Mr M for the loss hes suffered as a 
result of L&C accepting his business from 1 Stop.
L&C didnt accept my provisional decision and solicitors for L&C provided a response. Ive 
set out below a summary of what I consider to be the main points made in the solicitors 
response. However, the list isnt exhaustive and before making this decision I carefully 
considered the response in full. 
Mr Ms knowledge and expertise of pensions, investments and financial services has 
been given insufficient weight and has been unreasonably dismissed by the 
ombudsman.
The ombudsman has failed to consider that, irrespective of whether Mr M was only
authorised to advise on low-risk products, he would have needed to complete 
comprehensive training in order to be granted permission to provide investment 
advice.
Just because Mr M was advising on low-risk investments doesnt mean that he 
wasnt involved in SIPPs, or had no awareness of their structure or SIPP providers' 
due diligence obligations.
The ombudsman has incorrectly concluded that Mr M wasnt a sophisticated investor, 
that he had a low risk profile and little investment experience. Further, that due to his 
limited knowledge and lack of experience, Mr M had stated that he was only 
interested in low risk investments.
Its been assumed in the provisional decision that Mr M didnt know that the 
investment was unregulated and high risk, that Mr M wasnt aware of the downsides 
of failing to obtain full regulated advice, that it wasnt fair or reasonable to rely on 
indemnities signed by Mr M and that it wasnt fair or reasonable to say that Mr M's 
actions meant that he should bear the loss arising as a result of L&Cs failings.
The ombudsman says that he has no reason to doubt Mr M when he says that he 
didnt receive an explanation of the risks involved, and that he was led to believe that 
transferring his pension monies would help him to grow his fund. Further, the 
ombudsman says that he isnt satisfied that Mr M proceeded, knowing that the 
investments he was making were high risk and speculative, in order to take 
advantage of a cash incentive.
Mr M was a sophisticated investor and therefore would have read and understood 
the risk warnings in the literature provided to him by 1 Stop and L&C.Mr M would have known that a SIPP provider had due diligence obligations.
Given Mr Ms knowledge and experience, its unclear how the ombudsman has 
arrived at the conclusion that Mr M had no awareness of the high risk, unregulated 
nature of the investment and didnt think to query the process (despite the fact that 
he was likely familiar with the process, having been an adviser himself). 
Mr M clearly intended to invest in a high risk, unregulated investment and was fully 
aware of the consequences of doing so and therefore should take responsibility for 
his investment decisions. 
This case isnt very different to that of Mr Adams in Adams v Options SIPP.
Mr Ms recollection of events doesnt represent the best evidence of what he either 
was or ought to have been aware of at the time. 
Gestmin v Credit Suisse comprehensively set out the fallibility of memory and how 
recollection is subject to bias. 
The contemporaneous documents should take precedence over Mr Ms recollections 
as a record of events as a consequence.
L&Cs position, contained in its earlier submissions, remained the same.
In response to my provisional decision Mr Ms representatives said, amongst other things, 
that:
Mr M is in agreement with the provisional decision.
If redress monies are paid into Mr Ms pension fund this could potentially cause an 
issue with regards paying the £50,000 back to the FSCS. If not paid in time the client 
could start to encounter interest penalties. 
It could also be deemed as a withdrawal of pension funds which could impact on tax 
levied if Mr M needs to make a further withdrawal for personal use. 
If the funds have to be paid into the pension it requests that L&C repay the first 
£50,000 directly to the FSCS. 
Mr M would prefer for the monies not to be paid into his pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Better suited to be considered by TPO or a Court
L&C has said that it believes the complaint is better suited to be considered by TPO or a 
Court. Following on from my provisional decision, and as part of my review of this 
complaint, Ive reconsidered this issue. Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions 
on this issue as those Id set out in my provisional decision. For completeness, my 
conclusions on this issue are set out below.
Having carefully considered L&Cs submissions on this point, Im satisfied that Mr Ms 
complaint is one we can and should consider. We have a statutory duty to resolve 
complaints referred to us which are within our jurisdiction, subject to certain discretions 
which are set out in our rules. Regarding L&Cs submission about TPO; the rules set out 
in the FCA Handbook, at DISP 3.4.1R, say:
The Ombudsman may refer a complaint to another complaints scheme where:
(1) he considers that it would be more suitable for the matter to be determined by 
that scheme; and
(2) the complainant consents to the referral.
L&C has argued that Mr Ms complaint should be referred to TPO. And I could now refer 
the complaint to TPO on the basis of DISP 3.4.1R if I take the view its more suitable for TPO and if, in the light of that view, Mr M consents to a referral to TPO.
But I dont consider this is a complaint that would be more suitable for determination by 
TPO. This complaint requires consideration to be given to the rules and principles set down 
by the regulator. In my view, these are matters which the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
particularly well placed to deal with. Im also satisfied we possess the necessary knowledge 
and expertise to fairly determine the complaint. Our investigation is also well advanced. So I 
dont think it would be more suitable for the subject matter of this complaint to be 
considered by TPO.
In reaching this conclusion Ive considered the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) 
between our service and TPO. The MoU is a document about practical cooperation where 
theres remit overlap between the two organisations  however the MoU doesnt determine 
the jurisdiction of either organisation. Ultimately, DISP 3.4.1R says that I may refer the 
complaint to another complaints scheme, not that I must. So Ive discretion to decide what Ill 
do in the circumstances. And, for the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided to exercise my 
discretion not to refer Mr Ms complaint to TPO.
For similar reasons, Im satisfied that I dont need to exercise my discretion to dismiss the 
complaint under DISP 3.3.4A R on the basis it would significantly impair our effective 
operation, as it is more suitable to be dealt with by a Court or a comparable ADR entity. As 
Ive explained, Im satisfied the complaint is well suited to the work of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. We have significant experience of dealing with complaints of this type 
and are well-placed to consider them. Considering Mr Ms complaint would not in my view 
seriously impair our effective operation.
So, overall:
I dont consider that it would be more suitable for this complaint to be determined 
by TPO and Ive decided not to exercise my discretion to refer it.
Im not required to dismiss this complaint, and for the reasons Ive given, Im 
not exercising my discretion to dismiss it.
As such, Ive gone on to consider the merits of this complaint below.
Oral hearing
As Ive referenced above, in its response to the investigators view on the complaint L&Cs 
representatives noted, amongst other things, that they were requesting an oral hearing on 
this case. I explained in my provisional decision why I was satisfied that Im able to fairly 
determine Mr Ms complaint without convening a hearing. Following on from my provisional 
decision, and as part of my review of this complaint, Ive reconsidered this issue. Having 
done so Ive reached the same conclusions on this issue as those Id set out in my 
provisional decision. For completeness, my conclusions on this issue are set out below.
The DISP rules on hearings
As a preliminary point, the Financial Ombudsman Service provides a scheme under 
which certain disputes may be resolved quickly and with minimum formality (see 
section 225 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). And, the 
Dispute Resolution rules found in the FCA Handbook under which we operate (the 
DISP rules) provide the following in relation to the resolution of complaints by the 
ombudsman and hearings:
DISP 3.5.5RIf the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without 
convening a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite the parties 
to take part in a hearing. A hearing may be held by any means which the 
Ombudsman considers appropriate in the circumstances, including by telephone. No 
hearing will be held after the Ombudsman has determined the complaint.
DISP 3.5.6R
A party who wishes to request a hearing must do so in writing, setting out:
(1) the issues he wishes to raise; and
(2) (if appropriate) any reasons why he considers the hearing should be in 
private;
so that the Ombudsman may consider whether:
(3) the issues are material;
(4) a hearing should take place; and
(5) any hearing should be held in public or private.
DISP 3.5.7G
In deciding whether there should be a hearing and, if so, whether it should be in 
public or private, the Ombudsman will have regard to the provisions of the European 
Convention on Human Rights.
Given my statutory duty under FSMA to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum 
formality, Im satisfied that it would normally not be necessary for me to hold a hearing in 
most cases (see the Court of Appeals decision in R (Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642).
The key question for me to consider in making my decision on a hearing request is whether 
or not the complaint can be fairly determined without convening a hearing.
My consideration of the hearing request
In accordance with my duties under FSMA and the relevant DISP provisions as set out 
above, Ive carefully considered the request for a hearing on this complaint. And, Im 
satisfied that a hearing would only be required in this case if I thought the complaint couldnt 
be fairly determined without convening one.
As L&C will be aware, we dont operate in the same way as the Courts. Unlike a Court, we 
have the power to carry out our own investigation. And, if particular information is required to 
decide a complaint fairly, in most circumstances were able to request this information from 
either party to the complaint, or even from a third party.
DISP 3.5.8R provides:
The Ombudsman may give directions as to:
(1) the issues on which evidence is required;
(2) the extent to which evidence should be oral or written; and
(3) the way in which evidence should be presented.This means I, as the ombudsman determining this complaint, am able to decide the issues 
on which evidence is required and how that evidence should be presented. And Im not 
restricted to oral cross-examination to further explore points or to test the veracity of 
information thats been provided to me.
There are a number of issues that are in dispute in this complaint, but it is not uncommon for 
us to deal with complaints where the parties involved disagree as to what has happened 
and/or with the findings weve reached. But this doesnt necessarily mean that a hearing is 
required to fairly determine the complaint.
We generally decide complaints on the basis of the paperwork and submissions made either 
in writing or over the phone. Weve received written responses and documentary evidence 
from both parties during our investigation of this complaint, and Im able to consider that 
evidence fully. A number of written submissions have been made over the course of this 
complaint and I dont consider a hearing will necessarily make a difference or cause Mr Ms 
recollections of events that occurred many years ago to change.
I also want to emphasise that a hearing is only an opportunity for me to ask the parties to 
provide oral evidence. A hearing wouldnt normally provide L&C with the opportunity to 
cross-examine evidence/testimony provided. Our hearings dont follow the same format as a 
Court. Were inquisitorial in nature and not adversarial. The purpose of any hearing would be 
for me to obtain any further information from the parties that I require in order to fairly 
determine the complaint. 
Where I considered further evidence was needed on any point, Ive been able to ask the 
relevant party for the evidence I required. And the parties to this complaint have been given 
ample opportunity to make submissions at every stage of the process. Each party has had 
the benefit of seeing the material submissions made by the other party and been afforded 
the opportunity to respond.
Further, and more broadly, L&C has been invited to make submissions to us on a number of 
occasions during our investigation of this complaint. 
We initially wrote out to L&C to ask for its submissions on this complaint on 28 February 
2017. And an investigator issued a provisional assessment on this complaint on 10 March 
2022. Later the same investigator wrote to L&C on 6 May 2022 and invited it to submit any 
further points or information it would like the ombudsman to consider. I also gave L&C an 
opportunity to make further representations for me to consider in response to my provisional 
decision. So, L&C has been given a number of opportunities to make representations and 
has made several sets of representations. 
DISP 3.5.4R provides:
If the Ombudsman decides that an investigation is necessary, he will then:
(1) ensure both parties have been given an opportunity of making 
representations;
(2) send both parties a provisional assessment, setting out his reasons and a 
time limit within which either party must respond; and
(3) if either party indicates disagreement with the provisional assessment 
within that time limit, proceed to determination
Im satisfied this procedure has been followed in this case.Having taken all of the evidence and arguments into account, I remain satisfied that Im able 
to fairly determine Mr Ms complaint without convening a hearing. In deciding this, I have had 
regard to the parties rights under the European Convention on Human Rights. 
Merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account of 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
As a preliminary point, I should also say the purpose of this final decision is to set out my 
findings on whats fair and reasonable, and explain my reasons for reaching those findings, 
not to offer a point by point response to every submission made by the parties to the 
complaint. So, whilst I have considered all the submissions made to us, Ive focussed here 
on the points I believe to be key to my decision on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Relevant considerations
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, including the submissions in response to 
my provisional decision, Im still of the view that the relevant considerations in this case are 
those that Id previously set out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into 
account all of the submissions that have been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said 
about this point in my provisional decision.
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G  at the relevant 
date). Principles 2, 3 and 6 provide:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirements they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman whod upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated 
its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of the FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint.
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments and the judgment in Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA 
Civ 1188 when making this decision on Mr Ms case.Ive considered whether Adams means that the Principles should not be taken into account 
in deciding this case and Im of the view that it doesnt. I note that the Principles for 
Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial case against Options SIPP. 
And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles to SIPP operators in his 
judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles apply 
to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I dont say this means 
Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive taken account of the Adams 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Ms case.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of the FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight 
rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on 
the facts of Mr Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams 
appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had 
dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Ms complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 
120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual 
relationship between the parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 
2.1.1R that happened after the contract was entered into. And he wasnt asked to consider 
the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP.
And in Mr Ms complaint, amongst other things, Im considering whether L&C ought to have 
identified that the introductions from 1 Stop involved a significant risk of consumer detriment 
and, if so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting introductions from 1 Stop before 
entering into a contract with Mr M.
The facts of Mr Adams and Mr Ms cases are also different. I make that point to highlight 
that there are factual differences between Adams v Options SIPP and Mr Ms case. And I 
need to construe the duties L&C owed to Mr M under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific 
facts of Mr Ms case.
So Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr Ms case, including L&Cs role in the transaction.However, I think its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that L&C was under any obligation to advise Mr M 
on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application isnt the 
same thing as advising Mr M on the merits of the SIPP and/or the underlying investments.
Overall, Im satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Ms case.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) issued a number of publications which reminded 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
Ive considered the relevance of these publications. And Ive set out material parts of the 
publications here, although Ive considered them in their entirety.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 Report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.

We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to 
clients.Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client 
for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence, the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc.)Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety.
L&Cs representatives have said that the 2009 Thematic Review isnt statutory guidance. 
And I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports and the Dear CEO 
letter arent formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, Im of the 
view that the fact that the reports and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance 
doesnt mean their importance should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the 
Principles for Businesses apply and are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator 
might do to ensure its treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by 
the Principles. In that respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of 
what SIPP operators should be doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts 
to good industry practice, and Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into 
account.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to good industry practice in the BBSAL case, 
the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a long way to 
clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the judge in 
BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman.
At its introduction, the 2009 Thematic Review Report says:
In this report, we describe the findings of this thematic review, and make clear what 
we expect of SIPP operator firms in the areas we reviewed. It also provides 
examples of good practices we found.
And, as referenced above, the report goes on to provide examples of measures that SIPP 
operators could consider, taken from examples of good practice that we observed and 
suggestions we have made to firms.
So, Im satisfied that the 2009 Report is a reminder that the Principles apply and it gives an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. The Report set out 
the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be doing and therefore indicates 
what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time. So Im satisfied its 
relevant and therefore appropriate to take it into account.
In its submissions, including when making points about the regulatory publications, L&Cs 
representatives have referenced the R. (on the application of Aviva Life and Pensions (UK) 
Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2017] EWHC 352 (Admin) case. While the judge in 
that case made some observations about the application of our statutory remit, that remit 
remains unchanged. And, as noted above, in considering whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of a case, Im required to take into account (where appropriate) what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
L&Cs representatives have also said that many of the matters that the Report invites firms 
to consider are directed at firms providing advisory services. Its not specified which parts of 
the Report L&Cs representatives think are directed at such firms but, to be clear, I think the 
Report is also directed at firms like L&C acting purely as SIPP operators. The Report says 
that We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses And its noted prior to the good 
practice examples quoted above that We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators 
are not responsible for the SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are 
also clear that SIPP operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we 
would expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial crime and 
consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs.
Im also satisfied that L&C, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought the 
2009 Thematic Review Report was relevant. L&C did carry out some due diligence on 1 
Stop. So, it clearly thought it was good practice to do so, at the very least.
The remainder of the publications also provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is 
treating its customers fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, these publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good 
industry practice at the relevant time. Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into 
account too.
Ive carefully considered what L&C has said about publications published after Mr Ms SIPP 
was set up. But, like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact the 
publications, (other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that took 
place in relation to Mr Ms complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide 
werent good practice at the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were 
published after the events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed 
throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles.
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports (and the Dear 
CEO letter in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the 
regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good 
practice standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its 
clear the standards themselves hadnt changed.
I note L&Cs point that the judge in the Adams case didnt consider the 2012 Thematic 
Review Report, 2013 SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance 
to his consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it doesnt follow that those publications are 
irrelevant to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Im required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, 
as mentioned, the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at 
the relevant time.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider L&Cs 
actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions given were the 
limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what 
should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances.
The regulator also issued an alert in 2013 about advisers giving advice to consumers on 
SIPPs without consideration of the underlying investment to be held in the SIPP. The alert 
(Advising on pension transfers with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated 
products through a SIPP) set out that this type of restricted advice didnt meet regulatory 
requirements. It said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new 
pension. In particular, we have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement 
savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments (some which may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes).

Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that 
this process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part 
of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability 
of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes.
The alert post-dates the events in this complaint  but, again, it didnt set new standards. It 
highlighted that advisers using the restricted advice model discussed in the alert generally 
werent meeting existing regulatory requirements and set out the regulators concerns about 
industry practices at the time.
To be clear, I dont say the Principles or the publications obliged L&C to ensure the 
transactions were suitable for Mr M. Its accepted L&C wasnt required to give advice to 
Mr M, and couldnt give advice. And I accept the publications dont alter the meaning of, or 
the scope of, the Principles. But, as Ive said above, theyre evidence of what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles. As L&C notes from the FCAs Enforcement Guide, 
publications of this type illustrate ways (but not the only ways) in which a person can comply 
with the relevant rules. And so its fair and reasonable for me to take them into account 
when deciding this complaint.
Id also add that, even if I agreed with L&C that any publications or guidance that post-dated 
the events subject of this complaint dont help to clarify the type of good industry practice 
that existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that doesnt alter my view on what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time. Thats because I find that the 2009 Report 
together with the Principles provide a very clear indication of what L&C could and should 
have done to comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at the relevant time before 
accepting Mr Ms introduction from 1 Stop.
Its important to keep in mind the judge in Adams v Options didnt consider the regulatory 
publications in the context of considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the regulators rules) or 
good industry practice.
And in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Ms SIPP 
application from 1 Stop, L&C complied with its regulatory obligations: to act with due skill, 
care and diligence; to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly 
and effectively; to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly; and 
to act honestly, fairly and professionally. In doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the 
publications listed above to provide an indication of what L&C should have done to comply 
with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Submissions have been made about breaches of the Principles not giving rise to any cause 
of action at law, and breaches of guidance not giving rise to a claim for damages under the 
FSMA. Ive carefully considered these submissions but its not my role to determine whether 
something thats taken place gives rise to a right to take legal action. Im making a decision 
on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and for all the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that the Principles and the publications listed above are 
relevant considerations to that decision.
And taking account of the factual context of this case, its my view that in order for L&C to 
meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), amongst other 
things it should have undertaken sufficient due diligence into 1 Stop and the business 1 Stop 
was introducing, both initially and on an ongoing basis, before deciding to accept Mr Ms 
application.
Ultimately, what Ill be looking at whether L&C took reasonable care, acted with due 
diligence and treated Mr M fairly, in accordance with his best interests. And what I think is 
fair and reasonable in light of that. And I think the key issue in Mr Ms complaint is whether it 
was fair and reasonable for L&C to have accepted Mr Ms SIPP application in the first place. 
So, I need to consider whether L&C carried out appropriate due diligence checks on 1 Stop 
before deciding to accept Mr Ms SIPP application.
And the questions I need to consider are whether L&C ought to, acting fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, have identified that consumers 
introduced by 1 Stop were being put at significant risk of detriment. And, if so, whether L&C 
should therefore not have accepted Mr Ms application from 1 Stop.
The contract between L&C and Mr M
L&C has made some submissions about its contract with Mr M and Ive carefully considered 
what has been said about this.
My provisional decision was made on the understanding that L&C acted purely as a SIPP 
operator and this final decision is made on the same basis. I dont say L&C should (or could) 
have given advice to Mr M or otherwise have ensured the suitability of the SIPP or the Llana 
Beach/Green Oil investments for him. I accept that L&C made it clear to Mr M that it wasnt 
giving, nor was it able to give, advice and that it played an execution-only role in his SIPP 
investments. And that forms Mr M signed confirmed, amongst other things, that losses 
arising as a result of L&C acting on his instructions were his responsibility.
Ive not overlooked or discounted the basis on which L&C was appointed. And my decision 
on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms case is made with all of this in 
mind. So, Ive proceeded on the understanding that L&C wasnt obliged  and wasnt able  
to give advice to Mr M on the suitability of the SIPP or the Llana Beach/Green Oil 
investments. But Im satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations when conducting its 
operation of SIPPs business, L&C had to decide whether to accept introductions of business 
with the Principles in mind. And I dont agree that it couldnt have rejected introductions or 
applications without contravening its regulatory permissions by giving investment advice. 
What did L&Cs obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business L&C was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. And Im satisfied 
that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its operation of SIPPs business, 
L&C had to decide whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of 
business with the Principles in mind.
The regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by 
the FSA and FCA during its work with SIPP operators. This included being satisfied that a 
particular introducer is appropriate to deal with and that a particular investment is 
appropriate to accept. That involves conducting checks  due diligence  on introducers and investments to make informed decisions about accepting business. This obligation was a 
continuing one.
As set out above, to comply with the Principles, L&C needed to conduct its business with 
due skill, care and diligence; organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively; and 
pay due regard to the interests of its clients (including Mr M) and treat them fairly. Its 
obligations and duties in this respect werent prescriptive and depended on the nature of the 
circumstances, information and events on an ongoing basis.
And I think that L&C understood this to some degree at the time too, as it did more than just 
check the FSA entries for 1 Stop to ensure they were regulated to give advice. It also 
entered into intermediary agreements with 1 Stop. 
So, and well before the time of Mr Ms application, I think that L&C ought to have understood 
that its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out appropriate checks on 1 
Stop to ensure the quality of the business it was introducing.
And I think L&C also ought to have understood that its obligations meant that it had a 
responsibility to carry out appropriate due diligence on investments before accepting them 
into a SIPP. I think L&Cs submissions on the fact it did undertake some due diligence prior 
to allowing the Llana Beach/Green Oil holdings within its SIPPs reflect this. So, Im satisfied 
that, to meet its regulatory obligations when conducting its business, L&C was also required 
to consider whether to accept or reject a particular investment (here Llana Beach and Green 
Oil), with the Principles in mind.
L&Cs due diligence on 1 Stop
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
L&C explained to us in a previous complaint (that was the subject of published decision 
DRN-3587366) that at the date of the SIPP application in that case, which was towards the 
end of 2011, it wouldn't have accepted applications from a firm that wasnt authorised by the 
FSA.
And L&C appears to have carried out some checks before it accepted business from 1 Stop, 
amongst other things, Im satisfied this included:
Checking the FSA register to ensure that 1 Stop was regulated and authorised to 
give financial advice.
Entering into intermediary agreements with 1 Stop.
From the information that has been provided, Im satisfied that L&C did take some steps 
towards meeting its regulatory obligations and good industry practice. However, I dont think 
those steps that weve seen evidence of went far enough, or were sufficient, to meet L&Cs 
regulatory obligations and good industry practice. 
I think L&C was aware of, or should have identified potential risks of, consumer detriment 
associated with business introduced by 1 Stop before it accepted Mr Ms application. 
As I explain below, based on the available evidence, I think its more likely than not that 
the SIPP business introduced to L&C by 1 Stop was all, or mostly, very high risk 
business where consumers monies were ending up invested in unregulated and esoteric investments post-transfer. I think L&C should have taken steps to address this 
potential risk. And I think such steps should have included getting a fuller 
understanding of 1 Stops business model  through asking questions of/requesting 
information from 1 Stop and through independent checks.
Further, Im satisfied such information, had it been requested, would have confirmed there 
was a significant risk of consumer detriment associated with introductions of business from 1 
Stop. In the alternative 1 Stop might have been unwilling to answer, or fully answer, 
questions it received from L&C. In either event I think L&C should have concluded it 
shouldnt accept introductions from 1 Stop and before it accepted Mr Ms SIPP application.
So, based on the evidence provided to us to date, Im of the view L&C failed to conduct 
sufficient due diligence on 1 Stop before accepting Mr Ms business from it, or draw fair and 
reasonable conclusions from what it did know, or ought to have known, about 1 Stop. My 
view is that L&C ought reasonably to have concluded it should not accept business from 1 
Stop, and have ended its relationship with it, before it received Mr Ms application. Ive set 
out some more detail about this below, the points I make below overlap, to a degree, and 
should have been considered by L&C cumulatively.
The type of investments being made by 1 Stop-introduced consumers
Weve previously asked L&C in this complaint about the number of introductions it received 
from 1 Stop, the percentage of introductions it received from 1 Stop where applicants 
invested in non-mainstream investments and what number Mr M was amongst the 
introductions L&C received from 1 Stop. L&C hasnt provided a full response to our 
questions about this. 
Under DISP 3.5.9 (3) R I may reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and 
take account of the failure by a party to provide information requested.
An example of good practice identified in the FSAs 2009 Thematic Review Report was:
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
I think L&C either had, or ought to have had, access to information about the number and 
type of introductions that 1 Stop made. I say that because, as can be seen in the complaint 
that was the subject of published decision DRN-3587366, L&C has previously been able to 
provide similar information to us about a different firm that was introducing business to it.
And I dont think simply keeping records about the number and nature of introductions that 1 
Stop made without scrutinising that information would have been consistent with good 
industry practice and L&Cs regulatory obligations. As highlighted in the 2009 Thematic 
Review Report, the reason why the records are important is so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
In the absence of a response from L&C to our questions about this, and having regard to 
other due diligence complaints weve received against L&C where 1 Stop was the introducer, 
it appears that in these complaints the consumers also ended up with SIPP monies invested 
in higher risk unregulated holdings. Based on the evidence available to me, I think its more 
likely than not that this was reflective of the pattern of total business L&C received from 1 
Stop. And I think its more likely than not that either all of, or the vast majority of, consumers 
introduced to L&C by 1 Stop ended up with SIPP monies invested in higher risk unregulated 
assets. This finding also appears to be consistent with what the FCAs Final Notices for Mr R and 
Mr H say about the type of investments 1 Stop clients pension monies were being invested 
into. 
So, based on the evidence thats been provided to us to date, I think its more likely than not 
that the introductions L&C received from 1 Stop were for applicants intending to invest in 
high risk non-standard esoteric holdings, such as the unregulated holdings in Llana 
Beach/Green Oil that Mr Ms SIPP monies were invested into. I think its fair to say that such 
investments are highly unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail clients. They will 
generally only be suitable for a small proportion of the population. The risks are multiplied 
where the property is off plan and further funding is necessary from investors to complete 
the purchases, as was the case with many of the deposit based TRG investments, including 
the one Mr M made.
I also think its more likely than not that L&C had received a number of introductions from 1 
Stop, where consumers had invested in unregulated holdings, before it received Mr Ms 
introduction.
So, I think L&C either was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware and prior to 
receiving Mr Ms SIPP application, that the type of business 1 Stop was introducing was high 
risk, with consumers pension monies being invested in unregulated holdings, and carried a 
potential risk of consumer detriment.
What fair and reasonable steps should L&C have taken in the circumstances?
L&C could simply have concluded that, given the potential risks of consumer detriment from 
the pattern of business being introduced to it by 1 Stop  which I think should have been 
clear and obvious at the time  it should not continue to accept applications from 1 Stop. 
That would have been a fair and reasonable step to take, in the circumstances. Alternatively, 
L&C could have taken fair and reasonable steps to address the potential risks of consumer 
detriment, such as those Ive set out below.
Requesting information directly from 1 Stop
Given the potential risk of consumer detriment I think that, as part of its due diligence on 1 
Stop, L&C ought to have found out more about how 1 Stop was operating before it received 
Mr Ms application. And, mindful of the type of introductions I think that its more likely than 
not that L&C was receiving from 1 Stop from the outset, I think its fair and reasonable to 
expect L&C, in-line with its regulatory obligations, to have made some specific enquiries and 
obtained information about 1 Stops business model.
As set out above, the 2009 Thematic Review Report explained that the regulator would 
expect SIPP operators to have procedures and controls, and for management information to 
be gathered and analysed, so as to enable the identification of, amongst other things, 
consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Further, that this could then be addressed 
in an appropriate manner for example by contacting the members to confirm the position, 
or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, also gave an example of good practice 
as:
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with.
And I think that L&C, and long before it received Mr Ms SIPP application, should have 
checked with 1 Stop and asked about things like: how it came into contact with potential 
clients, what agreements it had in place with its clients, whether all of the clients it was 
introducing were being offered advice, what its arrangements with any unregulated 
businesses were, how and why retail clients were interested in making these esoteric 
investments, whether it was aware of anyone else providing information to clients, how it 
was able to meet with or speak with all its clients, and what material was being provided to 
clients by it.
The advisory process in Mr Ms case appears to be very similar to the analysis in the FCAs 
Final notice for Mr R, quoted towards the start of this provisional decision of 1 Stops 
advisory process. And I think its more likely than not this would also have been the case for 
a number of other consumers introduced to L&C by 1 Stop before it received Mr Ms 
application.
The FCA Final Notice also highlighted that, much as in Mr Ms case, 1 Stops customer 
documentation contained numerous disclaimers that as a business, 1 Stop didnt advise on, 
or have any involvement in considering, the underlying investment. And that Mr R himself 
confirmed that, all we would be doing is looking at a suitable SIPP  that they could 
transfer their pension into a SIPP that would accept that particular investment. 
The contents of the documentation weve seen on this complaint that was being completed 
and retained by 1 Stop doesnt suggest 1 Stop was trying to mask what it was doing. For 
example, in 1 Stops notes in the questionnaire it completed with Mr M and in investment 
purchase declarations it was asking investors like Mr M to sign, 1 Stop was recording that it 
wasnt advising on the suitability of investments transfers were being effected to make. And 
that no advice had been given on investments by 1 Stop in any way or form. The investment 
purchase declarations 1 Stop was asking customers like Mr M to sign, also appear to make it 
clear that another firm (in Mr Ms case the unregulated firm Future Assets) presented the 
investment opportunity to the consumer. 
And, on balance, I think its more likely than not that if L&C had checked with 1 Stop and 
asked the type of questions Ive mentioned earlier on in this section that 1 Stop would have 
provided a full response to the information sought. 
In the alternative, if 1 Stop had been unwilling to answer such questions if theyd been put to 
it by L&C, I think L&C should simply then have declined to accept introductions from 1 Stop.
L&C might say that it didnt have to obtain this information from 1 Stop. But I think this was a 
fair and reasonable step to take, in the circumstances, to meet its regulatory obligations and 
good industry practice.
Making independent checks
I think, in light of what Ive said above, it would also have been fair and reasonable for L&C, 
to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, to have taken independent 
steps to enhance its understanding of the introductions it was receiving from 1 Stop. For 
example, it could have asked for copies of correspondence in which applicants were being 
offered advice.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report said that:we would expect (SIPP operators) to have procedures and controls, and to be 
gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to identify possible 
instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such 
instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm 
giving advice and asking for clarification. (bold my emphasis)
The 2009 Thematic Review Report also said that an example of good practice was:
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
So I think it would have been fair and reasonable for L&C to speak to some applicants, like 
Mr M, directly and/or to seek copies of the suitability reports.
I appreciate that L&C might say that it couldnt comment on advice without potentially being 
in breach of its permissions. Again, I confirm that I accept L&C couldnt give advice. But it 
had to take reasonable steps to meet its regulatory obligations. And in my view such steps 
included addressing a potential risk of consumer detriment by speaking to applicants and/or 
having sight of advice letters, as this could have provided L&C with further insight into 1 
Stops business model. This was a fair and reasonable step to take in reaction to the clear 
and obvious risk of consumer detriment Ive mentioned.
Had it taken these fair and reasonable steps, what should L&C have concluded?
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
If L&C had undertaken these steps I think it ought to have identified, amongst others, the 
following risks before it received Mr Ms application:
1 Stop was explaining to consumers like Mr M that 1 Stop would give no advice on 
unregulated investments to be held within a SIPP. And that 1 Stops role was to 
research and advise on a suitable SIPP that the investment could be held in.
Consumers were being introduced to L&C without having been offered full regulated 
advice on the overall proposition.
1 Stop was having business referred to it by third parties, including unregulated 
introducers like Future Assets, and it was then introducing business to L&C.
Some consumers might have been sold on the idea of transferring pension monies 
so as to invest in unregulated investments before the involvement of any regulated 
parties.
Each of these in isolation is significant, but cumulatively I think they demonstrate that there 
was a significant risk of consumer detriment associated with introductions from 1 Stop. I 
think that L&C ought to have concluded 1 Stop had a complete disregard for its consumers 
best interests, and wasnt meeting many of its regulatory obligations.
As Ive mentioned above, the contemporaneous documentation, such as the 1 Stop 
questionnaire and investment purchase declarations, suggests that 1 Stop was being open 
about the limited service it was offering to consumers like Mr M. And had L&C carried out the due diligence Ive mentioned above, Im satisfied its more likely than not that it would have 
identified that consumers introduced by 1 Stop hadnt been offered, or received, full 
regulated advice from 1 Stop on their transactions.
The approach 1 Stop was taking was a highly unusual role for an advisory firm to take. 1 
Stop was stating it wouldnt discuss the specific risks associated with unregulated 
investments with consumers like Mr M and it wasnt advising on the suitability of the overall 
proposition for consumers (i.e. including advice about the intended post-transfer unregulated 
investments). This raises significant questions about the motivations and competency of 1 
Stop  particularly where consumers were being introduced by an unregulated business like 
Future Assets.
Had L&C taken appropriate steps in reaction to this, such as seeking clarification from some 
applicants introduced by 1 Stop at the time, like Mr M, and/or requesting copies of some 
suitability reports for 1 Stop-introduced consumers, I think its more likely than not that the 
information L&C obtained would have accorded with what 1 Stop was stating in the 
contemporaneous documentation weve seen in Mr Ms complaint, and with what Mr R is 
quoted as saying in the FCAs 14 April 2014 Final Notice. Namely, that 1 Stop wasnt 
offering consumers it was introducing to L&C any advice on investing in high risk 
unregulated investments, like Llana Beach/Green Oil, which investments consumers 
pension monies were being transferred to L&C so as to effect.
I therefore think L&C ought to have concluded Mr M  and applicants before him  didnt 
have full regulated advice on the overall proposition made available to them by 1 Stop. And I 
think that L&C ought to have viewed this as a significant point of concern. As retail 
consumers, like Mr M were transferring pension monies to L&C to invest in higher-risk 
esoteric investments like Llana Beach/Green Oil, without the benefit of having been offered 
full regulated advice on those investments, by an advisory business which appeared to be 
actively avoiding its responsibility to give advice on the intended investments.
1 Stop was a regulated business that had permissions to advise on the establishment of a 
SIPP, the switch of monies into that SIPP and where monies would be invested post-
transfer. But I think that from very early on L&C was aware, or ought to have been aware, 
that 1 Stop wasnt a firm that was doing things in a conventional way.
Its unusual for regulated advice firms to be involved in transactions involving transfers to a 
SIPP to invest in high risk esoteric investments, such as the Llana Beach/Green Oil 
holdings, where no advice is being given by that firm on the esoteric investments. Thats 
because the risks involved in such investments are unlikely to be fully understood by most 
people, without obtaining regulated advice. I think its fair to say that most advice firms 
decline to be involved in such transactions.
I think this ought to have been a red flag for L&C in its dealings with 1 Stop. And I think L&C 
ought to have identified that there was a risk that 1 Stop was choosing to introduce 
consumers without their having been offered full regulated advice. I think L&C ought to have 
viewed this as a serious cause for concern  this was a clear and obvious potential risk of 
consumer detriment in this case.
I also think that if L&C had carried out the due diligence Ive mentioned above, it should have 
identified that some consumers introduced by 1 Stop, like Mr M, who were investing in 
unregulated investments were likely being sold on those investments by third parties, 
including unregulated introducers like Future Assets. 
Although the promotion of some unregulated investments, including Llana Beach/Green Oil, 
might not have been a regulated activity, this was nonetheless another clear and obvious potential risk of consumer detriment  particularly where pension investors were being 
targeted, as appears to be the case here. L&C should have been alive to the risks 
associated with an unregulated firm(s) promoting unregulated investments for SIPPs, which 
investments were unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail clients. And I think 
thats particularly the case where full regulated advice wasnt being offered to consumers by 
the introducer L&C was dealing with  here 1 Stop.
I think that L&C should have identified that the business it was receiving from 1 Stop, 
whereby 1 Stop was arranging the transfer of pension monies for consumers into a SIPP, so 
as to invest in unregulated investments and without those consumers receiving any 
assessment from 1 Stop about the suitability, or otherwise, of those investments raised 
serious questions about the motivation and competency of 1 Stop. 
And I think L&C should have concluded, and before it accepted Mr Ms business from 1 
Stop, that it shouldnt accept introductions from 1 Stop. I therefore conclude that its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to say that L&C shouldnt have accepted Mr Ms application 
from 1 Stop.
I appreciate that L&Cs representatives have submitted that, as far as L&C is aware, 1 Stop 
advised Mr M on the establishment of the SIPP, the Green Oil investment and was also 
involved in the Llana Beach Resort investment. Further, that the fact advice was given on 
the investment is evidenced by 1 Stop supplying L&C with a copy of the investment 
application form alongside the SIPP application form. L&Cs representatives have also 
highlighted that in his SIPP application form Mr M informed L&C that hed authorised his 
financial adviser to act on his behalf in dealing with investments and correspondence shows 
that 1 Stop instructed L&C to purchase the investments.
Having carefully considered all of the submissions that have been made, including the 
contemporaneous documentation from the point of sale and Mr Ms testimony, I think its 
more likely than not Mr P/Future Assets promoted the unregulated investments Mr Ms SIPP 
monies were invested in and that 1 Stop didnt advise Mr M on these investments. Im 
satisfied that conclusion is supported by the weight of evidence in this specific case. 
But, in any event this is a secondary point because, as Ive mentioned above, Im satisfied 
that if L&C had undertaken adequate due diligence on 1 Stop it should have stopped 
accepting introductions from 1 Stop before it received Mr Ms application. I think L&C should 
have declined to accept Mr Ms application from 1 Stop. So things shouldnt have got beyond 
that.
L&C didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly, 
or treat Mr M fairly by accepting his application from 1 Stop. To my mind, L&C didnt meet its 
obligations or good industry practice at the relevant time, and allowed Mr M to be put at 
significant risk of detriment as a result.
Due diligence on the underlying investments
L&C had a duty to conduct due diligence and give thought to whether an investment itself is 
acceptable for inclusion into a SIPP. Thats consistent with the Principles and the regulators 
publications as set out earlier in this decision. Its also consistent with HMRC rules that 
govern what investments can be held in a SIPP.
However, given what Ive said about L&Cs due diligence on 1 Stop and my conclusion that it 
failed to comply with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice at the relevant 
time, I dont think its necessary for me to also consider L&Cs due diligence on the Llana 
Beach/Green Oil investments at this stage. Im satisfied that L&C wasnt treating Mr M fairly or reasonably when it accepted his introduction from 1 Stop, so Ive not gone on to consider 
the due diligence it may have carried out on the Llana Beach/Green Oil investments and 
whether this was sufficient to meet its regulatory obligations. And I make no findings about 
this issue.
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for L&C to proceed with Mr Ms 
application?
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
For the reasons previously given above, I think L&C should have declined to accept Mr Ms 
application from 1 Stop. So things shouldnt have got beyond that.
Further, in my view its fair and reasonable to say that just having Mr M sign declarations, 
wasnt an effective way for L&C to meet its regulatory obligations to treat him fairly, given the 
concerns L&C ought to have had about the business being introduced by 1 Stop.
L&C knew that Mr M had signed forms intended to indemnify it against losses that arose 
from acting on his instructions. And, in my opinion, relying on such indemnities when L&C 
knew, or ought to have known, Mr Ms dealings with 1 Stop were putting him at significant 
risk wasnt the fair and reasonable thing to do. Having identified the risks Ive mentioned 
above, its my view that the fair and reasonable thing for L&C to do would have been to 
decline to accept Mr Ms business from 1 Stop.
Amongst other things, the Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. 
And I dont think the paperwork Mr M signed meant that L&C could ignore its duty to treat 
him fairly. To be clear, Im satisfied that indemnities contained within the contractual 
documents dont absolve, nor do they attempt to absolve, L&C of its regulatory obligations to 
treat customers fairly when deciding whether to accept or reject business.
Im satisfied that Mr Ms SIPP shouldnt have been established and the opportunity to 
execute investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity shouldnt have arisen 
at all. And Im firmly of the view that it wasnt fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for 
L&C to proceed with Mr Ms application.
COBS 11.2.19R
L&Cs representatives have made the point that L&C complied with COBS 11.2.19R in 
executing Mr Ms written instructions. 
However, in the circumstances its my view that the crux of the issue in this complaint is 
whether L&C should have accepted the SIPP application from 1 Stop and established 
Mr Ms SIPP in the first place.
An argument about having to execute the transaction as a result of COBS 11.2.19R was 
considered and rejected by the judge in BBSAL. In that case Jacobs J said:
The heading to COBS 11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in which 
orders are to be executed: i.e. on terms most favourable to the client. This is 
consistent with the heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely: Best execution. The 
text of COBS 11.2.1R is to the same effect. The expression when executing orders 
indicates that it is looking at the moment when the firm comes to execute the order, and the way in which the firm must then conduct itself. It is concerned with the 
mechanics of execution; a conclusion reached, albeit in a different context, in Bailey 
& Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras [34]  [35]. It is not 
addressing an anterior question, namely whether a particular order should be 
executed at all. I agree with the FCAs submission that COBS 11.2 is a section of the 
Handbook concerned with the method of execution of client orders, and is designed 
to achieve a high quality of execution. It presupposes that there is an order being 
executed, and refers to the factors that must be taken into account when deciding 
how best to execute the order. It has nothing to do with the question of whether or 
not the order should be accepted in the first place.
And I dont think that L&Cs representatives argument on this point is relevant to L&Cs 
obligations under the Principles to decide whether to accept Mr Ms application to open a 
SIPP in the first place.
Is it fair to ask L&C to pay Mr M compensation in the circumstances?
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence on this point, including the submissions in 
response to my provisional decision, Im still of the view that Id previously set out in my 
provisional decision. As such, and while taking into account all of the submissions that have 
been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said about this point in my provisional decision.
The involvement of other parties
In this decision Im considering Mr Ms complaint about L&C. However, I accept that other 
parties were involved in the transactions complained about, including 1 Stop and Future 
Assets. L&C has contended that its 1 Stop thats really responsible for Mr Ms losses. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service wont look at complaints against 1 Stop as its been dissolved 
and no longer exists as a regulated business. And we also cant look at complaints about 
Future Assets.
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a Court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R).
As I set out above, in my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
hold L&C accountable for its own failure to comply with the regulatory obligations, good 
industry practice and to treat Mr M fairly.
The starting point therefore, is that it would be fair to require L&C to pay Mr M compensation 
for the loss hes suffered as a result of its failings. Ive carefully considered if theres any 
reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask L&C to compensate Mr M for his loss, including whether 
it would be fair to hold another party liable in full or in part.
And, for the following reasons, I consider it appropriate and fair in the circumstances for L&C 
to compensate Mr M to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to L&Cs 
failings.
I accept that it may be the case that 1 Stop and/or Future Assets might have some 
responsibility for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Ms loss. However, Im satisfied 
that its also the case that if L&C had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as 
a SIPP operator, the arrangement for Mr M wouldnt have come about in the first place, and 
the loss hes suffered could have been avoided.I want to make clear that Ive carefully taken everything L&C has said into consideration. And 
its my view that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for L&C to compensate Mr M 
to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to L&Cs failings. And, taking into 
account the combination of factors Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that it would be 
appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the compensation amount that L&Cs liable 
to pay to Mr M.
Im not making a finding that L&C should have assessed the suitability of the SIPP or the 
Llana Beach/Green Oil holdings for Mr M. I accept that L&C wasnt obligated to give advice 
to Mr M, or otherwise to ensure the suitability of the pension wrapper or investments for him. 
Rather, Im looking at L&Cs separate role and responsibilities  and for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think it failed in meeting those responsibilities.
Mr M taking responsibility for his own investment decisions
Its been submitted that in construing L&Cs obligations, regard should be had to section 
5(2)(d) of the FSMA (now section 1C). This section requires the FCA, in securing an 
appropriate degree of protection for consumers, to have regard to, amongst other things, the 
general principle that consumers should take responsibility for their own investment 
decisions.
Ive considered this point carefully and Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
say Mr Ms actions mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of L&Cs failings.
In my view, if L&C had acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice it shouldnt have accepted Mr Ms application from 1 Stop to open a SIPP at all. 
That should have been the end of the matter  if that had happened, Im satisfied the 
arrangement for Mr M wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the loss hes suffered 
could have been avoided.
As Ive made clear, L&C needed to carry out appropriate due diligence on 1 Stop and reach 
the right conclusions. I think it failed to do this. And just having Mr M sign forms containing 
declarations wasnt an effective way of L&C meeting its obligations, or of escaping liability 
where it failed to meet its obligations.
1 Stop was a regulated firm with the necessary permissions to advise Mr M on his pension 
provisions. Im satisfied that in his dealings with it, Mr M trusted 1 Stop to act in his best 
interests. Mr M also then used the services of a regulated personal pension provider in L&C. 
Ive carefully considered what L&C has said about Mr M being aware the investments were 
high risk. 
As part of our investigation of this complaint we asked Mr M about his time working as an 
adviser. Alongside my provisional decision, L&C was provided with details of the questions 
wed asked along with Mr Ms responses. It was also provided with the FSCS claim form in 
which Mr M had disclosed that, a little over 15 years prior to the transactions this complaint 
concerns, hed worked as an adviser between 1991 and 1995. A summary of some of 
Mr Ms answers to the questions wed asked were set out in my provisional decision and 
have been repeated above in the What happened section of this decision. 
Ive reconsidered Mr Ms responses to the questions we asked him and Ive also carefully 
considered the submissions L&C has made about those responses. 
Having done so, and having carefully considered all of the evidence thats been provided to 
us to date, Im still satisfied that Mr Ms testimony that he didnt receive an explanation of the risks involved, and that he was led to believe that transferring his pension monies would help 
him to better grow his fund, is credible.
And I wouldnt consider it fair or reasonable for L&C to have concluded that Mr M had 
received an explanation of the risks involved with the overall proposition from 1 Stop given 
what L&C knew, or ought to have known, about 1 Stops business model by the time it 
received Mr Ms application.
But, in any eventuality, in my view this is a secondary point. Thats because, as mentioned 
above, Im satisfied that if L&C had acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and 
good industry practice it shouldnt have accepted Mr Ms application from 1 Stop to open a 
SIPP at all. That should have been the end of the matter  if that had happened, Im satisfied 
the arrangement for Mr M wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the loss hes 
suffered could have been avoided.
So, overall, Im satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair and 
reasonable to say L&C should compensate Mr M for the loss hes suffered. I dont think it 
would be fair to say in the circumstances that Mr M should suffer the loss because he 
ultimately instructed the transactions to be effected.
Had L&C declined Mr Ms business from 1 Stop, would the transactions complained about 
still have been effected elsewhere?
I think that Mr Ms pension monies were transferred to L&C so as to effect unregulated 
investments. Im satisfied that position is supported by the contents of the contemporaneous 
documentation thats available, including the contents of 1 Stops Personal Financial 
Questionnaire for Mr M, 1 Stops Research Notes for: [Mr M] and the 1 Stop investment 
purchase declarations. 
L&C might say that if it hadnt accepted Mr Ms application from 1 Stop, that the transfer and 
investments would still have been effected with a different SIPP provider. But I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to say that L&C shouldnt compensate Mr M for his loss on the basis of 
speculation that another SIPP operator would have made the same mistakes as Ive found it 
did. I think its fair instead to assume that another SIPP provider would have complied with 
its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted 
Mr Ms application from 1 Stop.
Further, if L&C had declined to accept Mr Ms business from 1 Stop and Mr M had then 
sought advice from a different adviser, I think its unlikely that another adviser, acting 
properly, would have advised Mr M to transfer away from his existing pension plans and to 
invest in unregulated holdings in a SIPP.
Alternatively, if L&C had declined to accept Mr Ms business from 1 Stop, Mr M might have 
simply decided not to seek pensions advice elsewhere from a different adviser and still then 
retained his existing pension plans.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if L&C had 
declined to accept Mr Ms application from 1 Stop, the transactions complained about 
wouldnt still have gone ahead and Mr M would have retained his monies in his existing 
pension plans.
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
But, in this case, Im not satisfied that Mr M proceeded knowing that the investments he was 
making were high risk, and that he was determined to move forward with the transactions in 
order to take advantage of a cash incentive.
Mr M says that he was told that transferring his pension monies would help him to better 
grow his fund and that he wasnt told the investments were high risk. Ive not seen any 
evidence to show Mr M was paid a cash incentive, it therefore cannot be said he was 
incentivised to enter into the transaction in this way. On balance, Im satisfied that Mr M, 
unlike Mr Adams, wasnt eager to complete the transaction for reasons other than securing 
the best pension for himself. So, in my opinion, this case is very different from that of 
Mr Adams. And having carefully considered all of the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable to conclude that if L&C had refused to accept Mr Ms application from 1 Stop, the 
transactions this complaint concerns wouldnt still have gone ahead.
So, overall, I do think its fair and reasonable to direct L&C to pay Mr M compensation in the 
circumstances. While I accept that 1 Stop and/or Future Assets might have some 
responsibility for initiating the course of action thats led to Mr Ms loss, I consider that L&C 
failed to comply with its own regulatory obligations and didnt put a stop to the transactions 
proceeding by declining Mr Ms application from 1 Stop when it had the opportunity to do so. 
And Im satisfied that Mr M wouldnt have established the SIPP, transferred monies in from 
his existing pension plans or invested in Llana Beach/Green Oil if it hadnt been for L&Cs 
failings.
In making these findings, Ive taken into account the potential contribution made by other 
parties to the losses suffered by Mr M. In my view, in considering what fair compensation 
looks like in this case, its reasonable to make an award against L&C that requires it to 
compensate Mr M for the full measure of his loss. 1 Stop was reliant on L&C to facilitate 
access to Mr Ms pension. And but for L&Cs failings, Im satisfied that the transactions this 
complaint concerns wouldnt have occurred in the first place.
As such, Im not asking L&C to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That 
other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, which Im not 
able to determine. However, that fact shouldnt impact on Mr Ms right to fair compensation 
from L&C for the full amount of his loss.
The key point here is that but for L&Cs failings, Mr M wouldnt have suffered the loss hes 
suffered. And, as such, Im of the opinion that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances 
for L&C to compensate Mr M to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to its 
failings, and notwithstanding any failings by 1 Stop.
I acknowledge that Mr M has received a sum of compensation from the FSCS. However, the 
terms of his reassignment of rights require him to return compensation paid by the FSCS in 
the event this complaint is successful, and I understand that the FSCS will ordinarily enforce 
the terms of the assignment if required. So, I think its fair and reasonable to make no 
deduction in the redress calculation for the sum of compensation Mr M received from the 
FSCS. It will be for Mr M to make the arrangements to make any repayments he needs to 
make to the FSCS.
Ive considered the submissions Mr Ms representative has made about Mr Ms preference 
being for redress monies not to be paid into his pension arrangement. And the request that 
L&C repay the first £50,000 directly to the FSCS. Mr M was previously paid money by the FSCS and has subsequently entered into a 
reassignment of rights agreement with the FSCS. As part of that process Mr M would have 
been aware, or ought to have been aware, that the terms of his reassignment of rights would 
require him to return compensation paid by the FSCS in the event this complaint is 
successful. It was, and is, Mr Ms responsibility to make any arrangements needed to ensure 
he can fulfil that agreement he entered into. Mr Ms pension monies suffered the loss this 
complaint concerns and I remain satisfied that, subject to what Ive said below about existing 
protections or allowances, if possible redress monies should be paid back into Mr Ms SIPP. 
So, I remain satisfied that the approach to redress Ive set out below is the fair and 
reasonable approach to redress in this case. 
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration, I think that in the circumstances of this case its 
fair and reasonable for me to conclude that L&C shouldnt have accepted Mr Ms application 
from 1 Stop. For the reasons Ive set out, I also think its fair to ask L&C to compensate Mr M 
for the full losses hes suffered.
I say this having given careful consideration to the Adams v Options judgments but also 
bearing in mind that my role is to reach a decision thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case having taken account of all relevant considerations.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr M to the position hed now be in but for what I consider to be L&Cs 
failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting Mr Ms SIPP application.
As Ive already mentioned above:
I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that L&C shouldnt compensate Mr M for 
his loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator would have made the 
same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to assume that another 
SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted Mr Ms application from 1 Stop.
If L&C had declined to accept Mr Ms business from 1 Stop and Mr M had then 
sought advice from a different adviser, I think its unlikely that another adviser, acting 
properly, would have advised Mr M to transfer away from his existing pension plans 
and to invest in unregulated holdings in a SIPP.
Alternatively, if L&C had declined to accept Mr Ms business from 1 Stop, Mr M might 
have simply decided not to seek pensions advice elsewhere from a different adviser 
and still then retained his existing pension plans.
In light of the above, I think its fair and reasonable for L&C to calculate fair compensation by 
comparing the current position to the position Mr M would be in if he hadnt transferred from 
his existing pension plans. In summary, L&C must:
1) Obtain the current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of Mr Ms previous 
pension plans, if they hadnt been transferred to the SIPP.
2) Obtain the actual current value of Mr Ms SIPP, as at the date of this decision, less 
any outstanding charges.
3) Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).4) Pay a commercial value to buy any investments in Mr Ms L&C SIPP that cannot 
currently be redeemed.
5) Pay an amount into Mr Ms SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP is increased 
by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This payment should take 
account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The payment should 
also take account of interest as set out below.
6) Pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems with his pension 
have caused him.
Ive explained how L&C should carry out the calculation, set out in steps 1 - 6 above, in 
further detail below:
1) Obtain the current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of Mr Ms previous 
pension plans, if they hadnt been transferred to the SIPP.
L&C should ask the operators of Mr Ms previous pension plans to calculate the 
current notional value of Mr Ms plans, as at the date of this decision, had he not 
transferred into the SIPP. L&C must also ask the same operators to make a 
proportionate notional allowance in the calculations, so as to allow for any additional 
sums Mr M has contributed to, or withdrawn from, his L&C SIPP since outset. To be 
clear this doesnt include SIPP charges or fees paid to third parties like an adviser. 
Further, the total notional contributions or withdrawals to be allowed for shouldnt be 
any more than the total contributions or withdrawals Mr M actually made/took.
Any notional contributions or notional withdrawals to be allowed for in the calculations 
should be deemed to have occurred on the date on which monies were actually 
credited to, or withdrawn from, the L&C SIPP by Mr M. 
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation from an operator of Mr Ms 
previous pension plans, L&C should instead calculate a notional valuation by 
ascertaining what the monies transferred away from the plans would now be worth, 
as at the date of this decision, had they achieved a return from the date of transfer 
equivalent to the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 
March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index).
Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been 
achieved over the period in question. And, again, there should be a notional 
allowance in this calculation for any additional sums Mr M has contributed to, or 
withdrawn from, his L&C SIPP since outset.
2) Obtain the actual current value of Mr Ms SIPP, as at the date of this decision, less 
any outstanding charges. 
This should be the current value as at the date of this decision.
3) Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
The total sum calculated in step 1) minus the sum arrived at in step 2), is the loss to 
Mr Ms pension provisions.
4) Pay a commercial value to buy any investments in Mr Ms L&C SIPP that cannot 
currently be redeemed.As I understand it, Mr Ms L&C SIPP might still have illiquid investments held within it. 
And that but for these investments Mr Ms monies could be transferred away from 
L&C. In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, any 
remaining illiquid investments need to be removed from the SIPP. 
To do this L&C should reach an amount its willing to accept as a commercial value 
for any investments that cannot currently be redeemed, and pay this sum into the 
SIPP and take ownership of the relevant investments.
If L&C is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments, then the actual value of 
any such investments it doesnt purchase should be assumed to be nil for the 
purposes of the redress calculation. To be clear, this would include their being given 
a nil value for the purposes of ascertaining the current value of Mr Ms SIPP in step 
2).
If L&C doesnt purchase the investments, it may ask Mr M to provide an undertaking 
to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from these 
investments. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on 
the amount Mr M may receive from the investments, and any eventual sums he 
would be able to access from the SIPP. L&C will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
5) Pay an amount into Mr Ms SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP is increased 
by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This payment should take 
account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The payment should 
also take account of interest as set out below.
The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation shouldnt be paid into a pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protections or allowances.
If L&C is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ms SIPP, or if doing so would give 
rise to protection or allowance issues, it should instead pay that amount direct to him. 
But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ms actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax in retirement at his selected retirement age. 
Its reasonable to assume that Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
6) Pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems with his pension 
have caused him.
In addition to the financial loss that Mr M has suffered as a result of the problems 
with his pension, I think that the loss suffered to Mr Ms pension provisions has 
caused Mr M distress. And I think that its fair for L&C to compensate him for this as 
well.
SIPP feesIf there remain illiquid investments that cant be removed from the SIPP, and it hence cannot 
be closed after compensation has been paid, then it wouldnt be fair for Mr M to have to 
continue to pay L&C annual SIPP fees to keep the SIPP open. As such, if the L&C SIPP 
needs to be kept open only because of an illiquid investment(s), and is used only or 
substantially to hold the illiquid investment(s), then any future L&C annual SIPP fees must 
be waived by L&C until the SIPP can be closed.
Interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr M or into his SIPP 
within 28 days of the date L&C receives notification of Mr Ms acceptance of my final 
decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation isnt 
paid within 28 days.
My final decision
For the reasons given, its my final decision that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld and that 
London & Colonial Services Limited must pay fair redress as set out above. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that London & Colonial Services Limited 
must pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including 
distress and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out above. 
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that London & Colonial Services Limited pay Mr M the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above. 
The recommendation isnt part of my determination or award. London & Colonial Services 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr M could accept a decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance and Mr M may want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Alex Mann
Ombudsman