DRN-3289611
The complaint
Mr H who brings a complaint on behalf of T, a limited company, is unhappy that Barclays 
Bank UK plc (Barclays) didnt do more to recover money it sent to scammers.
What happened
In March 2020 an employee of T received an email they took to be from their director 
confirming £11,000 needed to be paid to a client. The employee transferred this amount to 
an international account on 20 March 2020.
On 23 March 2020 T realised the payment was part of a scam after speaking to the director 
they thought had instructed the payment and realising the email hadnt come from them. T 
contacted Barclays to report it had been the victim of an email intercept scam. 
Due to the pandemic and staff availability, the team that was able to recall international 
payments wasnt in the office. So Barclays was unable to recall the payment immediately  it 
did so on 24 March 2020. T contacted Barclays for several days following its initial reporting 
of the scam but couldnt get a consistent answer about whether or not the payment could be 
recalled. 
T made a complaint about the delays caused by Barclays. It felt that had Barclays acted 
immediately it wouldve been able to retrieve the money it had lost. Barclays responded in 
April 2020 and said that the request to recall the funds had been made within 24 hours, but 
generally in this type of situation funds are moved by the scammers quickly. So it didnt feel 
it was liable for the loss. It offered £500 for the poor customer service it felt it had provided.
T was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service. Initially our investigator 
upheld the complaint. They thought the delays caused by Barclays may have prevented the 
successful retrieval of Ts money and didnt think Barclays had provided sufficient evidence 
they hadnt. Barclays didnt accept this and provided further evidence around its contact with 
the beneficiary bank. Upon considering things again, we didnt feel Barclays had caused a 
loss. T didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Barclays have done more to prevent the payments from being made?
Theres no dispute the payment T made was authorised even though it was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. The payment was made on behalf of T by an employee who had the 
authority to do so and under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and 
conditions of its account, T is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think Barclays 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
The account used to make payment to the scammers is a business account. And having 
reviewed the statements in the six months leading up to the payment in question, I can see T 
regularly made large payments, both around £11,000 and higher, to its clients. Just the 
month before payment to the scammer, T made payments out of the account for around 
£30,000 and £40,000. And, it appears payments are regularly sent to different beneficiaries., 
And although this payment was sent to a new payee, I dont think it would seem that unusual 
that a business such as T would need to regularly pay new payees in the course of running 
its business.
Barclays has to strike a balance when monitoring its customers accounts. I wouldnt 
reasonably expect it to block every transaction thats put through a business account in order 
to carry out further checks. This would likely cause delays and severely impact the operation 
of the business. Overall I dont think the payment T made to the scammer was significantly 
unusual. So I dont think Barclays needed to take any additional steps before processing it.
T has said Barclays failed to provide it with any warnings when the payments were made. 
Where a bank has reason to believe its customer might be the victim of a scam, I would 
expect it to provide its customer with targeted information about the scam it suspects they 
might be victim to. But for the reasons given in this case, I dont think Barclays had any 
cause to suspect T was the victim of a scam. So I dont think it needed to contact it to 
provide specific or targeted warnings.
I think its likely when the payment was made there were general warnings as tend to be 
displayed when using online banking facilities. But even if there werent, Im not persuaded 
these general warnings wouldve made a difference in this case. The employee that made 
the payment was clearly convinced they were making a regular payment under the 
instruction of their boss. I dont think any general warnings wouldve alerted them to the fact 
their emails had been intercepted. 
Could Barclays have done more to recall the funds?
Barclays didnt immediately contact the beneficiarys bank to try and recall the funds when 
the scam was reported. T feels this delay and Barclays subsequent failure to do more to try 
and retrieve its money was the reason it was ultimately lost. But I havent found this to be the 
case.
T contacted Barclays on 23 March 2020 to report the scam. Due to the situation caused by 
the global pandemic the team that usually dealt with such requests wasnt available, so the 
recall attempt wasnt made immediately, it was made the next day. This is outside the timescales I would expect, but I dont think this delay likely was the difference between T 
successfully getting its money back and not. Ill explain why.
International banks arent subject to the same regulations or obligations as UK banks are. 
When a payment is disputed or reported as fraudulent, they arent obliged to return this 
money or even respond. Barclays has shown me that when the beneficiarys bank 
responded, in April 2020, it said it wouldnt be able to take any further action without a police 
report. It then stopped responding altogether to Barclays subsequent requests. It also didnt 
respond to our service when we tried to contact it for more information about the account.
So I think its clear in this case the beneficiarys bank was unwilling to co-operate with 
Barclays. I dont think its likely this situation wouldve been any different had Barclays 
contacted it a day earlier.
Id also add that in my experience, scammers tend to move money quickly once its been 
obtained. I think its more likely than not that by the time the scam was reported to Barclays, 
which was three days after the payment was made, the money had already been moved.
Ive noted Ts comments that Barclays should be able to trace where the money went onto, 
and shouldve done more to try and retrieve it, but this isnt the case. I would expect Barclays 
to make a reasonable attempt to recall the funds by contacting the bank that received it. But 
if this bank doesnt co-operate, which is whats happened in this case, theres nothing further 
I would expect Barclays to do.
As I dont think Barclays couldve done more to try and retrieve the funds, I dont think its 
responsible for them not being returned.
I accept this wouldve been a very difficult time for the employees of T, and I understand that 
conflicting information during the days that followed wouldve added to an already stressful 
situation. But the entity bringing the complaint in this case is a limited company, not a group 
of individuals. So whilst I am sorry to hear of the impact this situation no doubt had on the 
individuals involved, when thinking about the impact this had on the limited company, I 
wouldnt be able to take into account the emotional distress of the individuals that work for it. 
I can see the customer service T received after the payment was made may have caused 
further inconvenience to it, but I think the £500 Barclays has already offered is reasonable.
My final decision
Barclays has made an offer to pay £500 to T and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. So my decision is that Barclays should pay T £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman