DRN-2529589
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) treated 
him badly when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr B had a Barclaycard since 2002. By 2016, his finances were stretched. In October 2016, 
the direct debit to Barclaycard was cancelled and the next payment was missed. A debt 
advisory charity helped Mr B. A debt management plan was agreed. Interest and charges 
were stopped and payments of £1 per month agreed. A default was registered in December 
2016. The debt was sold to a debt collection agency in 2017.
Mr B complained. He said that Barclays didnt treat him well, given his circumstances. He 
was in and out of work and had irregular income. In 2014, he was struggling with payments 
to Barclaycard and thats when the default occurred. Hed asked Barclaycard for help then. 
The default shouldnt have been registered in 2016. The debt shouldnt have been sold to a 
debt collection agency. He couldnt now get a mortgage because of the default on his credit 
file. 
Barclaycard replied in June 2020. They said that in 2014, regular direct debit payments of 
£50 per month were being made  above the minimum amount needed. In 2015, the direct 
debit was changed to pay the minimum amount requested each month. Payments were 
maintained  so there were no signs of financial difficulty then. Mr Bs account defaulted in 
December 2016 - when Mr B got help from a debt advice charity. Barclaycard had an 
obligation to register the default with the credit reference agencies.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service in July 2020. Our investigator looked at what had 
happened. In January 2021, she said that it appeared that Mr B had no problems in 2015 
and into the first part of 2016. Barclaycard hadnt found any records of Mr B contacting them 
before October 2016. A default had to be registered where repayments are for an amount far 
less than required  as this was  and Barclaycard had a duty to report it to the credit 
reference agencies.
Mr B asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read this file in detail and let me say how sorry I am to learn of Mr Bs difficulties. He has 
been in and out of work for a long time and this has affected him financially, and his health 
has also suffered. My role is to make a decision which is fair to both parties, having reviewed 
everything that happened.
Mr B wants, in time, to get a mortgage and move on with his life, but he cant because of the 
default registered in December 2016 by Barclaycard. He says he should have been 
defaulted earlier  in 2014  and so that would now be running off under the six-year rule. 
He says he was in financial difficulty at that time, and contacted Barclaycard then to tell them 
that.
Ive looked at Mr Bs Barclaycard statements. These show that between 2014 and into 2016, 
he made the minimum payments to his account without fail  and sometimes more than that. 
In 2015, the payments changed to make the minimum payments only  but they were made. 
The borrowing was usually well below Mr Bs credit limit. Later in 2016, things changed. The 
debt increased. In October 2016, the monthly direct debit payment was not paid and 
cancelled. Mr B got support from a debt advice charity. As a result, a small payment of £1 
per month was agreed. I see that Barclaycard, from that time, stopped charging interest and 
charges  and refunds of £99 were made in December 2016.
Mr B says he contacted Barclaycard in 2014 to say he was struggling. Unfortunately, they 
have no record of this. And looking at Mr Bs account at that time, it doesnt appear that he 
was in difficulty. So, I cannot agree that Barclaycard shouldve registered a default in 2014.
Turning to 2016, clearly things got worse for Mr B. It was good that he sought help from a 
debt advice charity which helped him agree very low payments to his account. I can see that 
Mr B was surprised that this led to a default against him. But unfortunately, this is normal 
where a payment of an amount is agreed which is very much lower than the minimum 
payment needed  which was the case here. I can see from the letters Mr B was sent by 
Barclaycard in December 2016 and February 2017- that he was told that a default would be 
registered, and the credit reference agencies advised  and that the debt might be passed to 
a debt collection agency. Mr B contacted to Barclaycard in January 2017 about this  and 
they explained this. Ive checked Barclaycards terms and conditions  and what they did 
was in line with them. 
So, I have to say that Barclaycard were correct to register the default against Mr B in 2016. 
They were obliged to do this, like all lenders are. We can only ask Barclaycard to remove a 
default if theyve made mistake  and I dont think they have here.
I know that Mr B complained to Barclays Bank about a default that was registered on his 
bank account debt with them  and that was removed. Thats not part of this complaint  but 
let me say that was a very different case to this one  as Mr B had agreed with Barclays 
Bank to make payments of a much higher amount than on his Barclaycard  so in that case, 
Barclays Bank agreed they shouldnt have registered the default in the first place.
So, I know that my decision will be a disappointment to Mr B. But hes told us that he is 
dealing with the debt collection agency positively and thats going ok  we do hope that 
continues, and that Mr B can get his life back on track.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman