DRN-2878592
The complaint
Mr S complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) who declined his claim under his 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S had a home insurance policy from Aviva since 2017. Each year it renewed with a high 
value item of jewellery being specified on the policy.  Since 2017, it had been a condition of 
the policy that the specified item of jewellery had to be either worn or carried whilst in Mr S 
home or temporary residence. Or had to be kept in a room in which Mr S was present. 
In November 2020, Mr S home was burgled whilst he slept. The specified item of jewellery 
was stolen amongst other things. He contacted Aviva to make a claim. The advisor asked 
him several questions and when he was asked about the location of the jewellery, Mr S said 
that he had left it downstairs and not in the room that he was present in at the time. 
Aviva informed Mr S that the claim regarding the jewellery would be declined, given the 
policy condition. Mr S wasnt happy about this and complained to Aviva. He said that he 
hadnt been made aware of the condition and had he been made aware he would never 
have bought the insurance. He felt that the policy had been mis-sold and he wanted Aviva to 
honour the claim. 
In its final response, Aviva confirmed that when the policy had been taken out, the condition 
initially hadnt been highlighted to Mr S. But soon afterwards a letter was sent to him that 
explained the condition and said that the condition would be effective from the next renewal 
date. An updated schedule was also sent. Since then, subsequent renewal notices and 
policy schedules were sent each year, with the condition being highlighted. So, the claim 
remained declined.
Mr S said that he didnt receive the letter and maintained that the condition hadnt been 
highlighted. He also said that he wouldve found it difficult to read the letter (if he had 
received it) due to a medical condition. So, he referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that the condition was restrictive but when a condition is restrictive like this, our service 
would need to ensure that the condition had been highlighted to a policy holder and she 
concluded that it was. 
She said that Aviva had sent out six renewal documents in which it highlighted the clause. 
And although Mr S said that he had difficulty reading them due to a medical condition (which 
Mr S hadnt told Aviva about) it wouldnt be reasonable for Aviva to have made the 
appropriate adjustments. So, she concluded that Aviva fairly declined the claim and she 
couldnt recommend that Aviva do anything more to resolve the complaint. 
Aviva accepted the view, Mr S did not. He said that the condition hadnt been made clear to 
him, the clause hadnt been included on the page where the jewellery was described. That 
none of the Aviva advisors had highlighted the condition to him and so he asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. My findings are broadly the same as our 
investigator, which I expect Mr S will be disappointed with, but I will explain why I think this is 
fair.  
Mr S held a home insurance policy with Aviva since 2017. In November 2020 he was a 
victim of a burglary. A high value item of jewellery was stolen, and the incident was reported 
to both the police and Aviva. 
During the claims process, Mr S was asked a series of questions and it was established that 
the jewellery had been left in another part of his home. In other words, he was neither 
wearing the item nor had it in the room he had been in. Aviva confirmed that this was a 
specific condition of insuring the item and as Mr S hadnt complied with the condition, it 
declined the claim. 
Mr S said that he hadnt been made aware of the condition and in effect, it would be 
unreasonable to assume that the item would either be worn or kept in his possession at all 
times. The main issue if this complaint, is whether Aviva fairly declined Mr S claim and 
whether Mr S had been made aware of the condition that had been a condition of the 
insurance. 
 
I have considered the condition and it said: It is a condition of this policy that this item of the 
PERSONAL BELONGINGS SECTION is worn or carried by you or, whilst in your home or 
temporary residence, kept in a room in which you are present. 
Mr S said that the condition was unfair as the item of jewellery could only be insured in 
limited circumstances. Having reviewed the condition, I agree it does appear to be 
restrictive. But when a term in a policy is restrictive, we would expect the insurer  here 
Aviva, to make sure that the consumer is given enough information that is clear, fair and not 
misleading. So that the consumer can make an informed choice. And where a condition is 
restrictive, we would expect the insurer to make this very clear to the consumer. 
I have reviewed what happened when Mr S took out the policy and renewed it each year.
Mr S initially purchased the policy online. Aviva said that on inception of the policy, it wasnt 
certain that the condition was highlighted enough for Mr S. So soon afterwards, it wrote a 
letter detailing and explaining the condition and told Mr S that as it felt that the condition 
hadnt been highlighted to him, when he took out the policy, the condition would apply from 
the next renewal date: 
there is a note from 24/10/2017 to say that a letter was sent to PH advising that C/S
believed that the clause was not displayed to PH when he took out the
policy via a comparison site. They have then detailed the clause in the letter
and advised PH that due to the error the clause would not apply until
renewal in January 2018I have not seen a copy of the letter (as this isnt on the file) so I asked Mr S if he had 
received the letter. Mr S said that he hadnt received the initial letter. But confirmed that he 
did receive the subsequent renewal letters.  He said that the letters came in the normal font 
which wouldve been difficult to read. But, from the evidence before me, Mr S told Aviva that 
a family member helped him with reading his paperwork. So, although he said that he didnt 
receive the initial letter, he has confirmed that he received subsequent renewal documents 
that highlighted the clause and confirmed to Aviva that he had help with reading the letters. 
Moreover, in the renewal schedule document on page six (of a 10-page document) it lists the 
specified item of jewellery and on page seven it provides the following condition: Clauses 
applicable to items within the Personal Belongings section - Valuables Protection 
Condition - Personal Belongings It is a condition of this policy that this item of the 
PERSONAL BELONGINGS SECTION is worn or carried by you or, whilst in your home or 
temporary residence, kept in a room in which you are present.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that Aviva sufficiently highlighted the restrictive clause several 
times, even when Mr S requested an updated schedule, around three months before the 
burglary at his home. Consequently, I think Aviva gave Mr S enough information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading to allow Mr S to make an informed choice of whether to 
continue with the policy or not.  
I understand that Mr S said that he was unable to read the documents sent, due to his 
medical condition. But Mr S confirmed that he hadnt told Aviva about his medical condition 
as he thought his bank would have passed on that information. He also told Aviva that a 
relative helped with reading with his paperwork. 
Aviva confirmed that it was only informed about the medical condition when Mr S 
complained about the declined claim. Had it been made aware, it said that it wouldve made 
reasonable adjustments for Mr S. So, I dont think its reasonable to expect Aviva to have 
made adjustments when Mr S hadnt told it about his condition. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I think that Aviva did enough to inform Mr S of the 
restrictive condition on his policy. Im satisfied that it also highlighted the term sufficiently so 
that Mr S could comply with the conditions. As his claim didnt meet those conditions, I cant 
agree that Aviva unfairly declined his claim. And I wont be asking it to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
Mr S has now raised an issue regarding his bank, in that he might have been mis-sold the 
policy, But I should point out that this appears to be a separate complaint and one that is not 
attributable to Aviva. So, I wont be able to consider this here. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I wont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman