DRN-3284833
The complaint
A limited liability partnership, which Ill refer to as G, is unhappy with how DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited have dealt with a claim it made under its legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Mr K, a partner, brings the complaint on behalf of G.
What happened
G purchased a property as an investment opportunity with the overall intention of renting it 
out. There were some issues with the property - previous tenants had caused damage to it 
and action had to be taken to evict them. G used the legal expenses policy it held with 
DAS to assist with this action.
G then received a utilities bill for a substantial amount of money. The service had been 
used by the previous tenants of the building but not paid for. The utility company was 
holding G responsible for the bill as the owner of the property.
G approached DAS to make a claim for assistance in defending this bill and also taking 
action against the utility company for the way in which it entered the property to disconnect 
the service. Mr K also claims the utility company caused damage when it entered the 
property. Mr K asked DAS if Gs preferred solicitors could deal with the matter - as they 
were familiar with the history of issues with the property. There were several issues with 
the management of the claim by DAS and G raised complaints about them.
DAS issued two complaint responses February 2020 and May 2020. In those, it recognised 
it hadnt handled the claim in the best way. It offered G a total of £550 compensation to 
recognise the inconvenience this had caused.
Mr K was unhappy with DASs response to the complaints G had made, so he brought 
those complaints to this service.
In the meantime, G had cause to register further claims for legal assistance with DAS. It als
raised further complaints relating to those claims and overall, about how DAS has handled 
its business with it. DAS issued other final responses addressing some of those issues in 
July and November of 2020. The November responses addressed a claim involving 
another utility issue and about overall claims handling.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, he considered the final response letters from 
February, May and November 2020. The investigator thought the compensation offered by 
DAS in the February and May final responses and the response in November 2020 
concerning the other utility claim, was fair and reasonable. However, he thought the 
compensation offered for overall claims handling should be increased from £200 to £450.
Mr K, on behalf of G disagreed with the investigator, he said he didnt think the complaints 
made had been understood and he provided a substantial response setting out all of the 
issues he wanted this service to consider. He asked for this complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman.
The case has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 14 January 2022, in it I said I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
I understand Mr K feels very strongly about the experience he has had with DAS while 
theyve dealt with multiple legal claims for G. However, there is a limit to the issues I can 
consider under this complaint. In this case, the initial complaints Mr K brought to this 
service were those that were addressed in the February and May final responses. I will 
therefore restrict my consideration in this decision to those issues.
There are some specific issues Mr K has raised about how DAS has dealt with this utility 
claim, as well as general dissatisfaction with how long the matter has taken.
Having reviewed the file, I can see there was an issue at the start of the claim with 
confusion around the dates the building was purchased, the agreement was entered into 
with the utility company and the date the breach of contract occurred. I can see an 
agreement date was incorrectly quoted by a party assisting Mr K and G in dealing with the 
claim. There was a misunderstanding about the agreement being referred to and the date 
of the utilities contract was quoted as the date the property was purchased. This led to 
DAS initially declining to deal with the claim as the contact would have started before the 
legal expenses insurance policy came into force. I think communication here could have 
been clearer on both sides as to what was being referred to. But I do recognise it took 
some time to sort out and it would have been resolved quicker had the request been 
clearer and DAS had clarified what was required when first asked.
DAS has explained that it aims to respond to correspondence within five working days. 
However, there were many occasions when it didnt do so. Mr K on behalf of G has kept a 
tally of each breach of this timescale but I dont think its necessary to expand on those 
further here. Its enough to say that DAS didnt keep to the timescales it quoted and this 
caused inconvenience as Mr K had to keep chasing DAS to respond to his emails.
DAS has accepted that it repeatedly asked for information it already had in its possession. 
This was due to that information being placed on the incorrect claim file. In a way this is 
understandable human error as G has quite a few legal claims that are being dealt with at 
the same time. However, I can also see that a response was provided to G under one 
claim reference asking for information relating to th re this also
contributed to the information being misfiled.
The longer response times and misfiling of information led to delays in the claim 
progressing. I can also see that on one occasion DAS sent an email requesting information 
to an incorrect email address. It wasnt proactive in chasing up a reply and therefore this 
caused a further avoidable delay to the claim moving forward. DAS has acknowledged it 
caused these delays in its responses to the complaints.
Given the above, it is understandable the slow progress of this claim caused frustration to 
Mr K as he was dealing with matters on behalf of G. I acknowledge that DAS also spelt 
Mr Ks name wrong in one of its letters. This is something that had been previously pointed 
out to DAS, and I have been reassured by DAS it has now been corrected.
Mr K has pointed out he repeatedly requested a copy of the policy document which 
specifically related to period of time where the breach of contract in this claim occurred. DAS responded by letting him know he would need to request this from his broker as they 
would have arranged the policy and provided him with its own version of the documents.
DASs response in this matter isnt wrong, while it provides cover and policy wordings, the 
information itself is usually provided to the recipient bundled, potentially with other policies, 
under another companys branding. So, while DAS does have available to it the general 
scheme wording, the actual version of the policy document similar to what G would have 
received would only be available from the broker.
Similarly, DAS doesnt hold details of the individual consumers or entities policies have 
been sold to. Therefore, it would always need to verify the correct cover is in place with the 
respective broker. I understand in this claim, DAS undertook several policy validations 
requests however I dont think this was unreasonable. There was confusion about the 
relevant dates for the claim. However, I do accept that the administration of the claim didnt 
help with these having to be undertaken.
Turning now to the compensation offered by DAS. I think its important to point out here 
that our role is not to award compensation as a means of deterring businesses from 
unacceptable conduct or to reflect damages at amounts a court might award. It is to reach 
a fair assessment of the distress and/or inconvenience suffered by a consumer and put 
forward compensation that we consider to be a fair reflection of the circumstances.
Mr K has said that as a partner of G the compensation should be increased to take into 
account the distress dealing with all of these matters has caused him. I do recognise all of 
these issues have taken their toll on Mr K, and he hasnt been in the best of health recently 
either. However, I am restricted on awarding compensation to the entity that has brought 
the complaint. In this case, G is the legal entity that has brought the complaint and it is 
important here to note that the partnership has been set up on a limited liability basis. 
Therefore, this is a different scenario to if Mr K was bringing the complaint as part of a 
normal partnership, where I may have been able to consider the impact the matter has had 
on him personally as he would be the eligible complainant in that circumstance.
A legal entity in itself is not a natural person and therefore it cant suffer from impact to 
feelings. So, in this case, while I understand Mr Ks point of view, due to the way in which 
G is set up as a partnership, I cant consider separately the distress caused to Mr K 
himself when dealing with these issues. I will however take into account the inconvenience 
Mr K has been put to having to deal with matters on behalf of G.
Its clear inconvenience has been caused to G by DASs handling of the utility claim in 
question. However, having considered everything and for the reasons set out above, I think 
the £550 awarded for the issues addressed up to May 2020 is fair and reasonable. I wont
therefore, be asking DAS to increase this amount.
Responses to my provisional decision
DAS responded saying it accepted my provisional decision. 
In summary, Mr K made the following points of behalf of G:
DAS would have known the purchase date of the property having previously dealt 
with other legal claims in relation to it. 
DAS incorrectly declined to deal with the claim in the first instance.
Mr K is of the opinion that DAS has been negligent in misfiling his information  
rather than this being human error as I have concluded.
DAS has previously provided mis-leading information regarding the content of the 
policy documents.Both human members of the LLP have suffered immensely, and he would like this to 
be taken into consideration in a compensation award.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points Mr K has made on behalf of G; however they are in some respect 
a reiteration of what has gone before and that which I have already considered. 
Having reviewed everything again, I see no reason to change the findings or outcome of my 
provisional decision. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I think the £550 compensation offered by 
DAS for the issues addressed up to May 2020 is fair and reasonable. I wont, therefore, be 
asking DAS to increase this amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Gs complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman