DRN-2377993
The complaint
  Mr B believes AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as Avantcredit, acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing a loan hed applied for.
Mr B is being represented in this complaint by a Claims Management Company. But, for 
ease of reference, Ill just refer to Mr B within my decision.
What happened
  In May 2015 Mr B took out a £3,000 loan with Avantcredit, to be repaid over 48 months with 
repayments of £153.46 a month. This loan was repaid in April 2017.
Mr B has complained that Avantcredit didnt act responsibly when approving the loan. He 
said the loan was unaffordable when all of his other credit commitments were taken into 
consideration. Because of this he was in financial difficulties and couldnt afford to live, as in 
buy food and heat my house. Avantcredit didnt agree, so Mr B brought his complaint to us 
for investigation.
Our investigator said Avantcredit asked Mr B for information about his income and 
expenditure, and they carried out a credit search. She said this showed Mr Bs debt had 
increased by over £12,000 in the last year, and that he was paying £933 a month to his ten 
existing credit commitments  around 40% of his monthly income. She said the FLAs 
Lending Code says that more than four credit commitments, or more than 25% of income 
being used to repay existing credit commitments, could be a sign of financial difficulties. So 
the investigator thought Avantcredit shouldve carried out more checks.
The investigator obtained details of Mr Bs financial situation at the time of the loan 
application and considered what Avantcredit wouldve seen if theyd done the additional 
checks. She said this showed that Mr B earned less than hed declared, and his repayments 
to his existing credit comments were more than Avantcredit calculated. Which meant that Mr 
B only had £330 a month disposable income after paying all his outgoings  and 
Avantcredits loan repayment was almost half of this.
So the investigator thought Avantcredit shouldnt have approved the loan. And she 
recommended that they should repay anything Mr B had paid, over and above the £3,000 
originally lent, plus interest.
Avantcredit didnt agree with the investigator. They said theyd seen nothing to show that Mr 
B was in financial difficulties, and that £330 was sufficient disposable income to pay their 
loan repayments. And theyve said that, of the ten credit accounts Mr B had, three of these 
had a zero balance. Theyve also said they didnt have sight of Mr Bs bank statements when 
they made their lending decision, so they couldnt know what was on these. So theyve 
asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen the documents Avantcredit checked at the time they approved Mr Bs loan. They 
did a credit check which showed Mr Bs declared income of £2,165 a month matched the 
available records. It also showed he hadnt missed any payments in the last 5 months, that 
he owed a total of £26,259, and that the payments for this were £933 a month.
But it also showed Mr B had a debt to income ratio of 10.62 (which Avantcredit flagged as 
amber), that hed opened four new credit accounts in the last three months, that his 
outstanding debt balance had increased by £12,766 in the last 12-months, and that his credit 
card balance to limit ratio was 1 (all of which Avantcredit flagged as red). The report also 
flagged that there were overindebtedness indicators present, and that Mr B had had credit 
accounts with 11 different lenders in the last 12-months (including five payday lenders).
Avantcredit have said that, based on an income of £2,165 and credit commitments of £933 
each month, they considered their loan to be affordable. So they didnt think any further 
checks were necessary. I dont agree with this. Given the number of red flags on 
Avantcredits report, the increase in outstanding debt over the last 12-months, the clear use 
of payday lenders, the credit cards being at their limit, and the overindebtedness indicators 
being present; Im satisfied that Avantcredit shouldve done more checks before they agreed 
to this loan.
The most immediate and appropriate check wouldve been to review Mr Bs bank statements 
for the three-months before the loan was applied for. This wouldve given Avantcredit a 
better idea of Mr Bs financial position, and whether their loan was truly affordable.
Ive seen Mr Bs bank statements for the period 1 February to 30 April 2015. They show a 
monthly income of £1,882, which increased to £2,194 in April 2015. They also show Mr B 
had regular credit commitments of £1,016. Taking the higher income figure, this would give 
Mr B £1,178 income before paying his regular household bills of approx. £650 a month. So 
hed have disposable income of £528.
But the bank statements also show a reliance on short-term payday lenders, and that Mr B 
exceeded his overdraft limit. This indicates he was having problems managing his money. 
And, while he had £528 disposable income each month, once Avantcredits loan payments 
of £153 was taken into consideration, this only left £375 for things like food, transport, 
clothing etc. And it wouldve meant that Mr Bs credit commitment payments would represent 
53% of his monthly income.
So, in conclusion, I dont think that Avantcredit carried out reasonable and proportional 
checks when approving their loan. And, if they had done this, those checks wouldve shown 
Mr B was in financial difficulties, reliant on short-term finance, and that his total credit 
payments compared to his income was at an unsustainable level. So Im satisfied this loan 
shouldnt have been approved, and Avantcredit need to do something to put it right.Putting things right
 To resolve this complaint, Avantcredit should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr B made should be deducted from this amount. If this results 
in Mr B having paid more than he received, any overpayments should be refunded 
along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the overpayments were made 
until the date of settlement). 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Bs credit file relating to the loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
 My final decision
 For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Bs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading 
as Avantcredit must follow my directions above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman