DRN-2763189
The complaint
Mr C complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) failed to process his 
requests to transfer funds into his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in a timely manner.  
What happened
Mr C held a SIPP with IISL. He also held other pension savings in policies held with another 
provider. In January 2020 he decided to transfer the pension savings he held in three of his 
other policies to his SIPP with IISL. 
Mr C sent IISL three separate discharge forms, together with a single transfer form listing the 
policy references and assets that he wished to be transferred. However, unknown to Mr C, 
IISL required a separate transfer form to be completed for each policy being transferred. So 
it only requested the transfer of one of Mr Cs pension policies. That transfer completed on 
5 March 2020.
Mr C got in touch with IISL to ask why only one of his pension policies had been transferred. 
IISL explained that it needed a separate transfer form for each policy. But, after further 
investigation and a complaint from Mr C, IISL relied on a change to its processes and 
requested the further transfers using the original paperwork. The funds from the two 
remaining pension policies were received by IISL on 13 May 2020.
Mr C says that during the delay to the transfer of his pension savings, their value fell. So the 
amount that was transferred was less than it would have been if all three transfers had been 
processed following his initial instruction. And he has lost out on the investment growth those 
additional funds would have achieved after they were transferred.
IISL accepted that its levels of service had fallen short of what Mr C might have expected. It 
said that it should have been clear from the outset that he had requested the transfer of 
three separate pension policies. And that it should have asked Mr C for the additional 
paperwork it required. It paid him £50 as an apology.
Mr C didnt accept IISLs offer so he brought his complaint to this Service. His complaint has 
been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that IISL needed to pay Mr C some 
compensation to reflect both the fall in value of the transfers, and the loss of investment 
returns as a result.
Disappointingly IISL has failed to provide us with any substantive comments on that 
assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr C accepts my decision 
it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr C though I regret we have not received any substantive information 
on the complaint from IISL. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at 
what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.  
In its final response IISL appears to have accepted that it was given enough information by 
Mr C for it to reasonably know that he was instructing the transfer of three separate pension 
policies. And whilst I entirely accept that it is up to IISL to set out the forms that it requires a 
consumer to complete to effect such a transfer, it must provide consumers with the 
necessary information about its processes.
Here, once Mr C had submitted what he thought was all the information IISL needed, it was 
for IISL to let him know that was not the case. It wasnt reasonable for IISL to simply ignore 
part of Mr Cs request. And I am persuaded that, had IISL made Mr C aware that he needed 
to submit some further paperwork, he would have done so without delay and so allowed all 
three pension policies to be transferred to IISL at the same time.
That means that I am upholding Mr Cs complaint. So I now need to consider what IISL 
should do to put things right.
Around the time that the transfers were being instructed global markets were facing turmoil 
due to the start of the coronavirus pandemic. Mr C has provided us with evidence, from his 
previous pension provider, of the transfer values of his three pension policies on 12 February 
 that was the date that the first transfer was completed, and what I think is a reasonable 
date to consider all three transfers should have taken place.
Mr C has given us details of the investments he made with the funds in his SIPP. I can see 
that a month after the initial transfer he used part of the funds to invest in a Gilt fund. And 
then, around another month later, he used the remaining funds to invest in a global equity 
fund. Immediately after the final funds were transferred, in May 2020, Mr C used those 
monies to further invest in the same global equity fund.
Mr C has said that, had all the transfers taken place at the same time, he would have made 
the same investment into the Gilt fund. And then he would have used the remaining monies 
to invest in the global equity fund at the same date in April 2020. I think what he has said is a 
fair and reasonable reflection of what is likely to have happened. And I will use that as the 
basis of what IISL needs to do to put things right.
Putting things right
I have concluded that, if the transfers had taken place without the delays caused by IISL, all 
of them would have completed on 12 February. Mr Cs former provider has confirmed that 
the two policies that were not transferred at that time had a combined transfer value of £54,317.91. I think that, had the transfer been completed when originally instructed by Mr C, 
that full amount would have been invested into the global equity fund on 15 April 2020.
Mr C has confirmed that his investments in the global equity fund remain to date. So IISL 
should compare the value of an investment on £54,317.91 into that fund on 15 April 2020 
with the value of the investment Mr C actually made (£45,620.43 on 18 May 2020). If the 
value is higher, Mr C has incurred a loss and needs to be paid compensation equal to the 
difference.
The compensation should be paid into Mr C's SIPP. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If IISL is unable to pay the total amount into Mr C's SIPP, it should pay that amount direct to 
him. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. Assuming that Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as Mr C would have been 
able to take an additional tax free lump sum, the reduction should only be applied to 75% of 
the compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Interactive Investor Services 
Limited to put things right as detailed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman