DRN-3831721
The complaint
Mr M and Ms M complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC offered them new interest rates on 
their mortgage, shortly before their old mortgage deal expired, but didnt make clear that the 
rates they were offered could change at any time. They say they missed out because of this.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr M and Ms M, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr M. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision.
Mr M said Barclays wrote to him shortly before the expiry of his existing interest rate deal, to 
say that if he wanted to avoid going onto its standard variable rate, then he could now 
access new interest rates online. Mr M said he looked at the rate switching website on the 
day he got the letter, and completed most of the transaction. He stopped just before he paid 
the fee for the new mortgage deal.
Mr M said that none of the information Barclays provides to customers looking to fix a new 
rate themselves, explains that these exclusive existing customer rates are variable, and can 
change within the 90 days before the customers old mortgage deal expires. Mr M said if 
hed known that, he would have completed the transaction right away. Mr M said he was 
only told this some time later, when he called Barclays, and it said rates were subject to 
change.
Mr M said he completed the transaction soon after that, but wasnt able to secure the most 
attractive rate hed previously seen, when he first accessed the service. He thought Barclays 
should honour that rate for him, because it hadnt told him rates could change.
In its complaint response letter, Barclays said its documentation does set out that rates can 
change, but it accepted that Mr M hadnt been able to view a Mortgage Information Sheet as 
part of his application process. When this complaint came to us, Barclays pointed to the 
Mortgage Information Sheet, as the place where it told Mr M rates could change.
Our investigator initially upheld this complaint, on the basis that Barclays had accepted Mr M 
hadnt been able to view the Mortgage Information Sheet during this application, and that 
was where customers were told rates were subject to change. But then Barclays said it could 
show Mr M had accessed the Mortgage Information Sheet after all. And it didnt think it was 
responsible for Mr Ms belief that rates wouldnt change. It also noted that Mr M spoke to an 
agent on 24 March, who confirmed rates could change at any time, but then Mr M didnt 
complete his application until 30 March.
Our investigator then changed his mind. He no longer thought this complaint should be 
upheld, because he thought Mr M had seen the Mortgage Information Sheet after all. So he 
had been told that the interest rates he could see were subject to change.
However, our investigator said Barclays response to Mr Ms complaint had been confusing 
and unhelpful, so it should pay £50 to make up for that.
Mr M didnt agree. He said he hadnt been able to access the Mortgage Information Sheet. 
Hed clicked the link a number of times, but it didnt download. And he said that document 
alone wasnt enough for a customer to know that rates were variable during the remortgage 
period. That file is only available after a particular rate is selected, but the overall list of 
available mortgages doesnt mention that rates are variable, it just says something like Here 
are the mortgages to which we can switch you today. He said there ought to be a statement 
there that rates are subject to change, and there isnt. The only way to find that out is to view 
an illustration of a specific mortgage, and it isnt flagged that this is where he will find this 
important information.
Mr M said he still thought Barclays wasnt clear, and as a customer, he couldnt know that 
rates were subject to change until hed almost completed his transaction. He said that didnt 
encourage him to act promptly, which has ended up costing him more money. He thought 
specifying rates can change is important information that should be displayed prominently.
Mr M wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for 
a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
I understand Mr M expected that the rates he saw when he first looked online, would 
remain available to him. And he said that if this wasnt the case, Barclays should have 
been clear about this, so he would know he needed to act quickly. Mr M doesnt think 
that Barclays putting this information in the Mortgage Information Sheet was sufficient 
to make customers aware that rates can change, and he maintains that he was never 
able to see this document.
I dont think its likely Mr M did successfully view the Mortgage Information Sheet during 
his first attempted application. But I dont think that means Barclays has to reduce his 
mortgage interest rate in the way hed like. Thats because I dont think that whether or 
not Mr M did see the Mortgage Information Sheet was key in this case. Ill explain those 
conclusions in turn.
Ive looked at the timing of Mr Ms attempts to access the Mortgage Information Sheet. 
Barclays says Mr M accessed this successfully, three times in a row. The three 
documents it has supplied to us are identical. And its shown us the times when Mr M 
apparently repeatedly downloaded that document. He did this three times, within a 
period of less than 40 seconds.
I dont think its likely that Mr M downloaded the same document successfully three 
times in the space of 40 seconds. I think the timing of these attempts means its just 
more likely that he repeatedly pressed a button on Barclays website which failed to load 
the required document for him.
So I dont think its likely Mr M ever saw the warning on this information sheet, saying 
that the rate was only valid on that particular date. But Ive also said I dont think this 
means Barclays has to change Mr Ms rate now.
I think it can be difficult, when setting out information for customers, to strike the right 
balance between including key information, and providing too much. And when 
something turns out to have been particularly important to someone, like here, where 
the fact that rates can change was important to Mr M, then I understand why he would say that Barclays should have made him aware of this. I can understand why he would 
say a warning that rates could change should have been displayed prominently on 
Barclays website.
But I think Mr M feels this should have been included because he had reached the view 
that he could just return to his application later, and the same rates would be available 
to him. And, importantly, I dont think that Barclays is responsible for Mr M thinking that.
I cant find anything in the letter Barclays sent to Mr M that suggests it will offer rates 
now which he can access at any time until his old mortgage deal expires. And I think the 
heading above the list of mortgages, which he quoted as Here are the rates you are 
eligible for today and Here are the mortgages to which we can switch you today 
suggests these arent rates that will always be available to him. I think either of those 
headings would suggest that these are todays rates.
I know Mr M doesnt think that short statement was enough to dispel his view that he 
could just come back to the website some time later, and access the same rates. But 
because I dont think Barclays is responsible for Mr M having thought that in the first 
place, I dont think it was also responsible for dispelling the view he had reached.
That means I dont think its fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to honour the rates Mr 
M could see when he first accessed its website.
I do though, agree with our investigator that Barclays response to this complaint was
unhelpful, and has prolonged matters for Mr M and Ms M. And I think the timing of Mr 
Ms attempts to view the Mortgage Information Sheet mean it is unlikely that he was 
able to successfully download that, after all.
There is a chance that if Mr M had been able to download this information, the problem 
here would have been solved, as he would have understood the rates werent 
permanent. Although I appreciate the problem could also have been solved if Mr M had 
rung Barclays at the time about the difficulties he was having with this download, I do 
still think Barclays should pay a little more compensation than it has offered, for the 
problems I think Mr M ran into with his application. So I think Barclays should pay Mr M 
and Ms M £100 in compensation, to make up for that.
I know that Mr M and Ms M will be disappointed, but I dont think Barclays has to do 
more than that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it was happy to accept my decision. Mr M replied, on behalf of himself and Ms 
M, to object.
Mr M said he was surprised by my decision, and he continued to disagree with it.
Mr M said that UK regulation has been heavily predicated on customers shopping around, 
but to do that the customer needs all the relevant information to allow them to make an 
appropriate decision. He still thought Barclays was responsible for conveying essential information to the customer about how its rates operate, both before and during the contract. 
For example it would tell him whether the rate is variable or fixed within the term. So Mr M 
wanted to know why it wasnt also responsible for telling him clearly the basis on which the 
rate could change from day to day, or even during a day? 
Mr M said that without this information, he couldnt reasonably shop for a better deal, 
particularly in a changing rate environment. Mr M said that when he and Ms M originally saw 
the rates, they decided to compare these with other providers to ensure they got the best 
deal. At no point were they told Barclays existing customer rates could change during the 
exclusivity period. Mr M wanted to know if it was my view that he should have proactively 
asked? He said that the process for renewal rates was flawed if it misses out key 
information. And he said it couldnt be part of the process that he should have to check. He 
felt that he and Ms M should have been given all the relevant information in a clear way to 
enable them to make an informed decision. They didnt get that, and said I seemed to be 
saying it was their responsibility to ask, which couldnt be right.
Mr M said he wanted to return to the point about information on the variability of interest 
rates during a switching period. If Barclays as the lender, controlling the rate and 
determining how and when it changes, isnt responsible for telling the customer how and 
when this rate can change before the rate is bought, then he wanted to know who was? The 
only way he could get this information was by asking Barclays. To do this, though, he would 
need to know to ask.
Mr M said that my summary said Barclays wasnt responsible for the variability of the rates 
during the exclusivity period. But he said there was no explanation for why this was the case.
Mr M said he would also strongly encourage me to review the customer journey he 
underwent from the beginning to its completion. He said I would notice that the statements 
quoted were not headings. Instead they are statements in longer sections of text. And he 
said that if these statements were in part the basis for my decision, he would suggest they 
were reviewed and reconsidered on the basis of their prominence and their position in the 
journey. For example if he needs to read all information in full and infer the possibility of a 
more technical implication from a fairly anodyne statement within a paragraph introducing a 
table (e.g. that rates are variable on the basis of Here are the rates we can switch you to 
today), that did not strike him as clear or fair.
Ill start by addressing what I think may be a small misunderstanding  Mr M said my 
summary had said Barclays wasnt responsible for the variability of rates during the 
exclusivity period. But I didnt say that. What I said was that I didnt think Barclays was 
responsible for Mr M having reached the view that he could just come back to its website 
some time later, and access the same rates. And I said it was because I didnt think Barclays 
was responsible for Mr M having thought that in the first place, that I didnt think Barclays 
was also responsible for dispelling the view Mr M had reached.
And I should also say that my decision doesnt rest solely on the parts of Barclays web page 
that Mr M quoted above. I recorded that to note that what Barclays has said does appear to 
be consistent with its position that rates can change. 
Overall, whilst I have sought to set out Mr Ms comments in full, I do think he is, in 
substance, restating the argument he previously raised with our service. I do understand that 
Mr M is coming to this complaint from a different viewpoint. He had assumed that any offer 
made to him would be honoured until the time when his mortgage renewal was due. 
However, as Ive noted above, my provisional decision was based on my view that I didnt 
think Barclays was responsible for creating that impression. I should also note that this isnt likely to be an issue in other cases. Barclays says it is clear 
that rates are variable. But this is expressly set down in the Mortgage Information Sheet, and 
Ive accepted here that its unlikely Mr M saw that document. 
Ive reconsidered Mr Ms arguments above, and, whilst I do appreciate that Barclays is 
responsible for making sure its communications are clear, I still think that it needs to strike 
the right balance between including key information, and providing so much that whats there 
just isnt read. And I just dont think its reasonable for me to expect Barclays to have 
foreseen Mr Ms assumption that the mortgage rates that it invited him to view in early 
February would remain entirely unchanged for around 90 days, regardless of external factors 
such as changes to the Bank of England base rate. Without that, I also dont think I can hold 
it responsible for what Mr M says is the result of Barclays not having acted to dispel this 
misunderstanding at the first available opportunity. 
So I still dont think that Barclays has failed to provide sufficient information on its mortgage 
renewal offer to Mr M and Ms M, and I dont think it has to honour the previous rates for 
them now. 
For the reasons set out above, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr M and Ms M £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman