DRN-4090454
The complaint
Mr I complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) has failed to refund over £15,000 he lost to an 
investment scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr I authorised the transactions he made from his Revolut account 
as part of the scam, nor that some of those payments were considered unusual given 
they were flagged to Revolut and prompted it to issue warnings/ask further questions 
through its in-app chat. So, Ive therefore focused on the extent of Revoluts intervention 
and whether it couldve reasonably done anything more to prevent the scam. 
When Mr I made the payment of £7,000 on 2 November 2022, he selected the payment 
purpose as Transfer to safe account. At this point, Revolut provided a written warning 
about safe account scams. But even if it ought to have done more, such as declining the 
transaction until it could speak to Mr I about these sorts of scams, the payment was 
subsequently returned to the account in any event. So, Mr I hasnt suffered a loss as a 
result of Revolut failing to act appropriately here. In any event, even if Revolut had 
spoken to Mr I about the risks of safe account scams, this wasnt the reason he was 
making the payment anyway, so it seems unlikely that any further questioning along 
these lines would have led him to believe he was being scammed.
Revolut also intervened in relation to the £6,900 payment Mr I made on 
3 November 2022, where it asked him whether he had been asked to install any apps 
such as AnyDesk, or had received any assistance in setting up his investment account. 
Mr I said he initially answered yes to this question through the in-app chat, but then 
changed it to No after being told to do so by the scammer. However, there is no 
indication of this in the chat history provided by Revolut; it simply shows that Mr I 
incorrectly answered No to these questions. Therefore, I dont think Revolut ought 
reasonably to have had further cause for concern. And even if it had probed further, it 
seems unlikely that Mr I wouldve been upfront with what he was doing, as he was being 
told what to say by the scammer throughout his interaction with Revolut. 
Therefore, even if I were to accept that Revolut ought to have done more, I dont think its 
failure to probe further could reasonably be considered as the proximate cause of Mr Is 
loss in these circumstances, as it seems likely he would have given misleading 
information and proceeded to make the transactions irrespective of any intervention.
Ive also thought about whether Revolut did enough to try and recover the funds after the 
fraud was reported. However, there wouldnt have been any successful prospect of a 
chargeback for the debit card payment Mr I made to the crypto provider, as he wouldve 
received the services he paid for. In terms of the faster payments, Revolut attempted to 
recover the funds but was told that the money had already been moved from the 
receiving accounts prior to the fraud being reported. Therefore, Im not persuaded it 
could have reasonably done anything more to recover Mr Is funds in these 
circumstances. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr I, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Revolut can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman