DRN-3717687
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building Society unfairly closed their bank account 
without providing a proper explanation. And unfairly asked them to repay their overdraft. 
What happened
Mr H is a director of a religious outreach organisation which I will refer to as C. As part of his 
involvement in C, Mr H says he sends money overseas to help with Cs outreach work. 
Mr H and Mrs H had a joint account with Nationwide with an agreed overdraft of £800. 
In March 2021, Mr H attempted to send a payment to an individual overseas, who I will refer 
to as J. Mr H says J is a member of C and needed money to help pay for vehicles needed to 
distribute Cs literature as part of its outreach work.
Nationwide blocked the payment and told Mr H it was concerned Mr H had been the victim of 
a scam or fraud regarding the payment he wanted to make to J. Following this, in order to 
comply with its legal and regulatory obligations, Nationwide decided to review Mr and 
Mrs Hs account. Whilst it completed its review Mr and Mrs Hs account was restricted.
Mr H complained to Nationwide, saying he wasnt the victim of a scam or fraud, and 
explained that the work of C was legitimate. In support of what he told Nationwide he 
provided the bank various publications produced by C detailing its outreach work and 
purpose. He also outlined that C along with many of those involved in the organisation, had 
been subject to false fraud allegations and baseless police investigations over the years. So, 
he said Nationwide had no grounds for blocking and reviewing his account.
Nationwide completed its review and decided to close Mr and Mrs Hs account with 60 days 
notice and asked him to repay his overdraft. Mr H asked Nationwide to explain why it had 
closed his account and said he had no intention of repaying the overdraft as Nationwide had 
wrongly deprived him the use of his account. In response, Nationwide said it hadnt done 
anything wrong and had acted in line with its regulatory obligations and explained to him that 
it had closed the account in accordance with the terms and conditions. Mr H wasnt happy 
with this explanation, so he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. She said Nationwide hadnt 
done anything wrong. The investigator also said Nationwide didnt have to provide Mr H with 
an explanation about why it had decided to no longer provide them with banking services. 
Mr H disagreed. He said he wants to see the evidence Nationwide relied on to close the 
account and says Nationwide have been devious and obstructive in the way it has acted. He 
maintains that there is absolutely no basis for any allegations of fraud to be levied against C 
and that hes done nothing wrong. So, he wants Nationwide to pay his compensation and 
waive his overdraft. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has submitted a large volume of material to us in support of his complaint, which 
includes quite a lot of information regarding the work of C. Ive reviewed all the material he 
has submitted. Im not going to cover all the points raised by Mr H in his detailed 
submissions. No discourtesy is intended by this. I also want to add that I understand Mr H 
and Mrs Hs strong sentiment regarding their religious beliefs, and I respect their right to 
practice their faith. But Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
I note too that Mr H has made a number of serious allegations of corruption against the 
police and Nationwide staff during his complaint. And says he (and C) have been the victim 
of allegations of fraud. But as the investigator has already explained, our service has no 
remit to investigate criminal matters against individuals. It would be for Mr H to report such 
matters to the appropriate authorities. I also note that Mr H has raised issues about how 
Nationwide have dealt with other individuals known to him and who are also involved with C. 
But I cant comment on these. This decision will focus solely on Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
I can see Mr H feels very strongly about whats happened here. And I know he is upset 
about the closure of his account. Thats clear from what hes said to us and to Nationwide. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Hs frustration and strength of feeling, its important to point out that 
the only thing in question here is whether Nationwide has done what it should have done. 
And I think it has. Ill explain why
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Nationwide has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take 
certain actions in order to meet these obligations. These obligations are ongoing, so do not 
only pertain to when an account is opened. They can broadly be summarised as a 
responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial 
crime. To comply with its obligations Nationwide may need to review an account and/or 
restrict its customers access to accounts and funds held within them.  
Nationwide has to have in place security measures and procedures in order to try to 
safeguard its customers accounts and ensure it complies with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. And its not for this service to interfere with these processes. Thats a matter for 
Nationwide.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Nationwide to block Mr Hs account and ask him about the payment he wanted to make 
to the individual overseas. Nationwide has explained that this was its standard procedure, 
and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so Nationwide were complying with its 
legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, Nationwides actions upset Mr H, I cant 
say the bank has treated him unfairly when it declined Mr Hs payment request. 
I understand that Mr H wants Nationwide to explain the reason it applied the block to his 
account and subsequently close it. And provide him with the information it relied on to do so. 
But Nationwide doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. 
And its under no obligation to tell Mr H the reasons behind the account block, as much as 
hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr H this information. 
And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so. Having said that, I can see that 
Nationwide did set out their concerns to Mr H about the payment he wanted to make  that they suspected fraud. And although Mr H didnt agree with the banks concerns, based on Mr 
Hs submissions, Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr H understood why Nationwide 
restricted his account. 
I know Mr H would like Nationwide to set out the evidence/information it relied upon. He 
doesnt think it has done a full investigation and suggested that staff at Nationwide are 
corrupt. Hes convinced Nationwide has simply taken the word of individuals who are trying 
to undermine the work of C and target him. I dont know if this is the case regarding others. 
But I do know that Nationwide has done an investigation. I wouldnt expect it to set out for 
our service the full details of that. But I havent seen evidence that  Nationwide has ignored 
the concerns Mr H has raised. And Ive not seen any evidence, as Mr H seemed to fear, that 
there is anyone within Nationwide who is engaged in fraud. 
I then turn to Nationwides decision to close Mr and Mrs Hs account. Its generally for 
financial businesses to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this 
service wont usually say that they must keep a customer or compensate a customer who 
has had their account closed. I know Mr H suspects that Nationwide closed his account 
because of false allegations of fraud. But Ive not seen any evidence to support Mr Hs 
suspicion. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Nationwide acted in line with 
the account terms and its regulatory obligations when it decided to close Mr Hs account. So, 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award any compensation to Mr and Mrs H since I dont 
find Nationwide acted inappropriately when it closed their account. 
I then turn to Mr and Mrs Hs overdraft. Mr H has said he has no intention of repaying the 
money. Mr and Mrs Hs overdraft was, as is common, repayable on demand. That is, 
Nationwide was entitled to ask Mr and Mrs H to repay it at any time, simply by giving notice 
to them. At the point the bank closed Mr and Mrs Hs account it was overdrawn, and they 
owed money theyd borrowed from the bank. When the account was closed the debt became 
due. The notice to close letter Nationwide sent to Mr and Mrs H in May 2021 told them that if 
they owed money, theyd need to get in touch to make arrangement to repay what they 
owed. And sent further letters which explained that the account had been passed to 
collections. So, Nationwide has done what Id expect it to do.
I know Mr H has suggested Nationwide should waive the overdraft. But Ive thought about 
the actual money Mr and Mrs H borrowed. Hes had the use of that, so Im not going to say 
Nationwide should write off the debt.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr H feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and upsetting time. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But 
overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Nationwide has acted unreasonably and 
treated Mr H and Mrs H unfairly when it blocked and closed their account. And asked them 
to repay their overdraft. So, I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything, and I dont think 
this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman