DRN-1977851
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold him a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 2004 when he applied for a store card ending in numbers 4875.
What happened
Mr B complained to this Service. He bought a PPI policy in 2004. It was added to his 
Burtons store card account which he applied for in store. He said AXA France had 
admitted the PPI had been mis-sold to him. So he would like all of his premiums returned. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr B disagreed with our 
adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
As AXA France has agreed to accept responsibility to look at this complaint on behalf of 
Burtons then, for ease, I will refer to AXA France as the PPI seller.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B's case.
Firstly, Mr B said AXA France had admitted it had mis-sold the policy to him. I have 
looked very carefully at the letters which AXA France and the lender sent to Mr B. I have 
only seen that Mr Bs complaint was completely rejected. I did not see any letters which 
said AXA France was admitting that PPI had been mis-sold. So in the absence of that 
evidence, I have decided to look at the complaint again. 
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA France made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA 
France produced a copy of Mr Bs store card application. I can see there was a tick box 
stating Yes, I would like to protect my account with Account Cover This box is signed 
on Mr Bs application, but I noted he declined other offers on the form. So I think the form 
was diligently completed with the things he wanted and didnt want either by him or on his 
behalf. And as he separately signed the form for the credit and the PPI, I can reasonably 
assume he checked the details were correct before signing. So I think his signature means 
AXA France probably made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and yet he 
chose to take it out. 
I noted Mr B was eligible to buy PPI. The policy wasnt recommended so AXA France had 
to make sure Mr B received enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading 
so he could make an informed decision.
Its possible the information given to Mr B about the cost and benefits wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as I think he chose to take it out, it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong 
because he told us he had no savings and the PPI could have lasted for longer than and 
in addition to his sick pay if he wasnt able to work or had lost his job.
AXA France should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the 
exclusions). I dont know how they did this, but it does not appear that Mr B was affected 
by the main exclusions. So - even if hed been given a full list of the exclusions - I dont 
think it would have put him off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown as optional and Mr B was 
probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am not going to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman