DRN-2475156
The complaint
 S complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to process a direct debit (DD) payment on two 
occasions resulting in it sustaining a considerable loss because its motor insurance policy 
was cancelled due to non-payment. 
What happened
 The main facts of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont unnecessarily 
repeat them here in any great detail. In summary, S DD payment for its motor insurance 
was due to be paid on 20 November 2019, but it didnt go through because TSB said there 
were insufficient funds in the account. Payment was attempted again on 3 December which 
also failed but for a different reason. Because payment wasnt made S subsequent claim on 
their motor policy failed as the insurer had cancelled the insurance.
S feels TSB didnt follow their correct procedure in processing the DD and if it had, the 
payment would have gone through and the policy remained in force. TSB disagreed as it 
thought it had followed the correct procedure with regard to the DD, but it did award S 
£21.60 compensation because it recognised that it had initially failed to record and respond 
to S written complaint.
S was unhappy with TSBs final response and so approached this service to see if we could 
assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that TSB hadnt done anything wrong 
but did feel TSB could have communicated the reasons for the two failed DDs much better. 
Because of that failure the investigator thought TSB should pay S £100 in compensation to 
put things right. 
Both S and TSB didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus however on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this 
and it reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether TSB acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. 
The starting point to this complaint must be the 20 November. At the close of business on 
the 19 November, S account had a balance of £73.28. The following day the account shows 
that the DD for £105.32 was attempted but failed because it would have put the account into 
an overdrawn position. A cheque was however presented for £72 which went through and 
then S then made a deposit in branch at 12:30pm of £105. That would have put the balance 
on S account at £106.28 which would have been sufficient to allow the car insurance DD to 
go through but for a pending transaction. TSB have said the reason it didnt go through was 
because of this pending further DD of £65. I can see that is correct, and so when TSB 
attempted the car insurance DD for the second time it is understandable that it failed.
I now turn to the attempt on 3 December. On this date there was no issue with the balance 
on the account as there were ample funds to pay the DD. But on this occasion the car 
insurers attempted to take £135.62 not £105.62, because they were adding on a £30 charge 
for the first failed DD. TSB have explained that because the car insurer carried out a re-
presentation of the original unpaid DD, the amount claimed would have had to have been 
identical to the original claim, and because it wasnt that was why it didnt go through. Ive 
checked the documents TSB have provided and that is correct, so I cant criticise TSB here.
I now turn to the letter TSB say it sent to S on 20 November advising that the DD had not 
gone through. S has said the letter was not received and in fact Mr T believes TSB are 
making it up. TSB has produced a copy of the letter it says it sent and it is correctly 
addressed. It has also produced its own system notes showing a letter was returned to them 
undelivered from S address on 27 November. Whilst Mr T casts doubt over whether this 
returned letter was the letter TSB sent, I accept that it was. I do so because it is more likely 
than not that it was. First it is a letter actually being returned from S address, and secondly it 
is corroborated by S saying they didnt receive the 20 November letter. So, on balance I 
think this returned letter is likely to be the one sent on 20 November. Even if I am wrong 
about that, I accept TSB did send the letter, and the fact it was not delivered to S cannot be 
the fault of TSB. I appreciate Mr T feels this letter is fabricated, but beyond his mere 
assertion there is no evidence to show that TSB have decided to enter into such a fraud. For 
me to be satisfied that this letter was invented, as S suggests, I would need to see some 
positive evidence of that. So, I do find TSB acted fairly in sending the letter to S to warn it of 
the failed DD on 20 November as that was their usual procedure for so doing, and I find it 
didnt fail in trying to warn S of the failed DD.
Finally, I address the issue of the investigators view that TSB should compensate S £100. 
The reason for this was because the investigator thought that TSB had not been clear when 
addressing S complaints about the events on 20 November and 3 December. She thought 
that TSB had given out incorrect factual information about what happened in that S was told 
a second attempt at the DD wasnt attempted on 20 November when it was, and that the car 
insurer hadnt re-presented the DD on 3 December when it had. I appreciate that TSB 
believe it has provided sufficient compensation to S already, but that compensation was for a 
different issue, that being overlooking his initial complaint.
Putting things right
Ive given some further thought to what ought to be the right level of compensation for the 
errors TSB made, that being the unclear information given to S on 20 November and 3 
December.  When this service considers levels of compensation we take into account a 
variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that may have 
been caused. The awards we make can be categorised within the brackets of modest, 
substantial, severe or extreme, and examples of these can be found on our website. 
Looking at the evidence provided and considering the impact of TSBs error on S, it seems 
to me that in this case an award should fall within the bracket of moderate. I do therefore think that £100 is fair and reasonable and represents a reasonable figure to reflect the 
general trouble and inconvenience S experienced through being given the unclear 
information. 
My final decision
TSB Bank plc shall pay to S £100 to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman