DRN-4452925
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) mismanaged his pension 
investments resulting in losses and failed to inform him about the poor performance. He 
wants compensation for the losses.
What happened
Mr B has a Group Personal Pension Plan (the plan) with Scottish Widows. He says his plan 
value fell by around 29% between early 2021 and August 2023 (when he referred his 
complaint to our service), a loss of around £8,000. He says he queried the falling value via 
an online message in March 2023. He asked why it hadnt informed him about the losses, 
but he didnt receive a reply. He messaged Scottish Widows again in April 2023, again 
without reply, so Mr B made a complaint. 
Scottish Widows sent a final response in June 2023. It apologised for not responding to Mr 
Bs messages and sent a cheque for £200 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this had caused him. But it said it wasnt responsible for the fall in the value of 
the plan, which was due to stock market movements. It said factors like the war in Ukraine 
and rising interest rates had negatively impacted returns on the investments his plan held. 
Which was around 80% in fixed interest assets. It said investing in financial markets always 
involved some level of risk and it couldnt guarantee a fund wouldnt suffer losses. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. He said Scottish Widows had removed his online 
access to plan information in August 2022, and hed not been able to monitor his 
investments, although access had been restored in March 2023. He said the investment in 
his plan was meant to be balanced but hadnt complied with Scottish Widows definition of 
this. He didnt think the fund was appropriate for a person of his age when hed invested in 
2016. And as he was now in his seventies, he didnt have time for investment values to 
recover. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt uphold it.
Our investigator said Scottish Widows had invested Mr Bs fund in line with his instructions. 
And it wasnt responsible for the underlying performance of the investments or financial 
markets. He said Scottish Widows wasnt providing advice, so it couldnt make changes or 
monitor the investments, which was Mr Bs responsibility.  He said Scottish Widows 
customer service hadnt been good enough in failing to respond to Mr Bs queries. But he 
thought the offer of £200 compensation for this was fair and in-line with what our service 
would award in similar circumstances. Our investigator said as Mr B hadnt made Scottish 
Widows aware of his concerns about losing online access, hed refer this back to it.
Mr B didnt agree. He said Scottish Widows employed professional fund managers who 
had a moral duty to project investors and mitigate the effects of any downturn in global 
markets. He said he hadnt contacted Scottish Widows over the online access issue, but as 
it had removed his ability to monitor his investment it should have warned the funds werent 
performing as well as they were designed to do.  
As Mr B doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I know this will disappoint Mr B, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision. 
I understand the concern the sharp reduction in value has caused Mr B, but it isnt 
reasonable to hold Scottish Widows responsible for this. It wasnt providing Mr B with advice 
about his investments and couldnt make any changes without instructions from him. And Mr 
B accepts he was aware the funds he was invested in could fall in value. He was also 
dissatisfied with returns in March 2023, but he doesnt appear to have acted to change 
anything then. 
Theres no evidence Scottish Widows wasnt managing the investment fund according to the 
fund objective or mandate  which was to mostly hold long dated fixed interest and cash 
type assets. These are generally considered to be lower risk investments over the longer 
term. But in certain situations, such as political and economic uncertainty, the value of such 
investments can still fall sharply. 
The background here was the expectation and then reality of rapidly rising interest rates 
worldwide and specific economic shocks such as the war in Ukraine and Liz Truss brief 
Premiership which occurred during the period. And fixed interest asset prices fell sharply 
from December 2021. The Scottish Widows fund produced similar returns to the sector 
average of all funds investing in the same type of assets. And it marginally outperformed the 
average during the periods of greatest falls in value. 
The mandate required Scottish Widows to invest 80% of the fund in one type of asset - long 
dated Sterling Corporate Bonds. So, I think there was little the fund managers could have 
done to reduce losses given the very broadly based fall in values of this type of asset. There 
wasnt any requirement to contact Mr B specifically to advise him of falls in the value of the 
investment. And it seems it sent him the annual valuation statements as required under the 
terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the plan. 
In terms of online access to valuations this is something Scottish Widows offered. But the 
T&Cs state the service could be suspended or terminated at any time for any reason. And, 
that the terms could be varied at any time to improve the efficiency of the service. Mr B 
says he was required to download an APP to enable continued access, which he wasnt able 
to do at the time. But Mr B could still contact it by telephone to address any difficulty he was 
having. And by August 2022, when Mr B says he could no longer access online valuations, a 
significant reduction in the value of his plan had already occurred. 
Scottish Widows accepts its service was poor in not responding to Mr Bs queries. It has 
apologised for this. And I think the compensation it has paid here is fair in the circumstances 
of the complaint and it neednt do any more than it has.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman