DRN-3066958
The complaint
Mr A complains that an important function of his car was disabled shortly after he took 
receipt of it. The car was financed through an agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited (BMWFS), trading as BMW Financial Services.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
If Mr A was provided with a false statement of fact that led him to enter into an agreement he 
would not otherwise have entered into I would think the agreement had been misrepresented 
to him and Id ask BMWFS to take some action.
Here, I think Mr A was provided with a false statement of fact. Ive seen copies of 
communication he had with the dealership prior to taking receipt of the car. Mr A asks if the 
car comes with a digital key function and the sales person explains that it does and provides 
a video of its function. Theres no suggestion that the digital key function will be 
discontinued, but it was, only five weeks later. 
For some customers that may not have been a function that was so important that it meant 
they would not have continued with the contract without it. But here I think there is evidence 
Mr A wouldnt have proceeded with the deal. I say that because the function was clearly very 
important to him. The communication with the dealership shows that, and Mr A has 
explained that it was this function that persuaded him to opt for this car and not others with 
different but less compelling features.
So, I think this car was misrepresented to Mr A.
  
Putting things right
In those circumstances we try to put the consumer back in the position they would have 
been in had the misrepresentation not have taken place. But the relevant legislation allows 
the business to retain some or all of the finance paid in respect of the usage the consumer 
has had from the goods.
Whilst the digital key was important to Mr A the lack of it didnt stop him accessing, starting 
and locking the car. So, I think he has had full use of the vehicle and BMWFS should 
therefore retain all of the finance instalments hes paid for that use.
But they will need to end the finance agreement and collect the car from Mr A, and theyll 
need to refund any deposit Mr A has paid with interest as hes been deprived of that money.
I also think Mr A has experienced some inconvenience. Hes had to escalate his complaint to 
this service when I think matters could have been resolved earlier. In the circumstances, and 
considering our published guidance on distress and inconvenience, Im persuaded that 
BMWFS should pay him £250 to compensate him for the inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr A;
refund any deposit/part exchange Mr A paid and add 8% simple interest per year to 
that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr A £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr As credit file in 
relation to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman