DRN-2406406
The complaint
Charity C complains that PayPal declined to resolve a dispute regarding a faulty item
it purchased from a seller in Greece. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat them at 
length here. 
Briefly, in January 2020 C purchased an AM 1000W transmitter from a seller in
Greece for $2,400. The item was delivered to the charity late February. In early March, 
C emailed the seller that the transmitter had been installed but was only getting maximum of 
260W output from it instead of 1000W as advertised. 
Then followed a series of exchanges between the seller and C, with the seller directing the 
charity to take various actions to try and resolve the problem. However, none of them 
worked. In the end the seller suggested sending the item back and provided his return 
address. But when C asked the seller about replacement or refund, there was no further
response from the seller. 
C then opened a dispute with PayPal that the goods received were not as described. But 
PayPal declined the claim. It said that C cited in filing the claim that it attempted to fix the 
transmitter. This meant that PayPal could not verify when the damage happened. It also said 
that the documentary evidence provided to support Cs case wasnt something it could verify. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. In 
summary she said:
C made reasonable endeavours to resolve the problem with the seller as required in the 
PayPals Buyer Protection.
Cs claim met the conditions listed in Section 4 of PayPals Buyer protection. Specifically: 
- the transmitter was an eligible purchase;
- the payment was sent and received via a PayPal account;
- the problem arose because the purchase was significantly not as described. The 
transmitter was invoiced as producing 1000W output, yet C has given evidence to 
show it was managing only around 260W. The available submissions show that the 
seller did not dispute there being an issue with the transmitter and, in fact, has 
offered for the item to be returned to him, albeit later falling short of providing a 
replacement or refund and 
- C followed the process it was required in Section 5 of the Buyer Protection.
The steps C took including changing some components were carried out on the 
directions given by the seller himself.
As regards the documentary evidence needed to support the claim, in investigators 
view, the engineers report met PayPals set requirements and is an acceptable 
evidence to support the claim. The report also contained the engineers details and 
the details of the radio station he was from. So PayPal could have carried out their 
verification if they wished to do so.
 PayPal also mentioned that C raised the claim four months after they purchased the 
transmitter. The item was bought at the end of January, delivered around the end of 
February. The charity raised the issue shortly after receiving the transmitter and spent 
March and April trying to resolve the issue directly with the supplier. Only when their 
latest communication on 5 May went unanswered by the supplier, they contacted 
PayPal a couple of days later. Thus there was no unreasonable delay between 
purchasing the item and opening a dispute with PayPal as in the intervening period C 
was only trying to resolve the matter with the seller as required under PayPals rules. 
Based on the above the investigator concluded that PayPal unfairly declined Cs claim and 
deprived C of the chance to get a refund from the seller. Therefore it should refund the 
purchase price and pay 8% simple interest on the purchase price from the time this claim 
was raised to the date of the settlement.
PayPal did not agree. It reiterated that because C made amendment to the item prior to a 
third party reviewing it, it was unable to determine when exactly the goods were damaged. It 
said that PayPals Buyer Protection Policy does not guarantee a refund. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for essentially the 
same reasons. 
It is evident from the exchanges between C and the seller that the transmitter wasnt 
delivering the output as described. It is also evident that Cs attempt to rectify the problem 
including the replacement of some parts was on sellers instructions. So I do not think it is 
fair on part of PayPal to reject the claim on the basis that C replaced some items. And 
ultimately, as the investigator said, the seller wasnt disputing that the problem existed. 
PayPal says that its Buyer Protection Policy does not guarantee a refund. However I am 
satisfied that C did all it could in the circumstances to meet the conditions for a refund. So I 
do not think it is fair on part of PayPal to reject the claim. 
 
Putting things right
In full and final settlement of the complaint, PayPal should:
Refund the purchase price to C
Pay 8% simple interest on the purchase price from the time the claim was raised to the 
date of the settlement
If it wants, PayPal is free to recover the instrument from C, to the extent the terms of the 
Buyer Protection policy allows it had the claim been successful.My final decision
 I uphold the complaint. PayPal must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman