DRN-3592881
The complaint
Mr L complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) wrongly instructed its 
agents to remove and dispose of shed contents following a flood.
What happened
Mr L had a home insurance policy with RSA, bought through an intermediary. In June 2021, 
the ground floor of his home and his garden shed were flooded during localised flash floods 
that affected parts of the UK. He made a claim to the intermediary, which was passed on to 
RSA.
As part of its claims handling process, RSA instructed an agent to assess, monitor, and 
restore Mr Ls property. This included the contents of Mr Ls shed. RSAs agent deemed 
some of the shed contents to be beyond economical repair (BER) due to contamination by 
the flood water and removed these for disposal. RSA later realised the shed contents 
werent covered by Mr Ls policy. It accepted that its agent shouldnt have removed these 
items and gave him £200 to apologise for this.
Mr L was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He said RSA made a 
serious error by instructing its agent to empty his shed. He also said he wasnt asked about 
these contents before they were removed. He wants RSA to compensate him for the value 
of the removed items. He estimates this at approximately £1,300.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She agreed that 
RSA shouldnt have asked its agent to dispose of the uninsured items. However, she was 
satisfied that the agent had carefully inspected the items and would have only disposed of 
those that were, in its professional opinion, BER. She thought RSAs £200 payment to 
apologise for this was fair. 
Mr L disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, the loss of any property in these circumstances will have been extremely upsetting and 
Mr L has my sympathies. Im pleased to see that he was happy with how RSA dealt with the 
rest of his claim.
Page 10 of Mr Ls policy booklet (Contents Option) explicitly excludes items covered under 
the Garden Option from cover. This section, as well as page 19 of the booklet (Garden 
Option), lists these excluded items which includes gardening equipment (including 
motorised gardening equipment), garden furniture and removeable items that are normally 
used in the garden. Mr Ls policy schedule shows he didnt include the Garden Option in his 
cover. So Im satisfied that Mr L wasnt covered for the gardening equipment and garden 
furniture stored in the shed.
Mr L believes most of the items taken away and disposed of by RSAs agent were 
salvageable. Im afraid I disagree with him. Photos taken by the agent show the items in the 
shed as well as the waterline showing the level of the flood water  Id estimate this at 
between two to three feet from the floor. I think these photos show its more than likely than 
not that the items were BER. For example, one photo shows a small amount of water pooled 
on the top of one of the lawn mowers. A second, small mower sits beside it. That suggests 
both mowers would have been completely submerged by flood water. I think the chances of 
repairing them would have been extremely low. Other photos show significant damage to a 
barbecue, strimmer, and lawn scarifier.
RSAs agent said there was significant damage to the non-electrical items. For example, 
corrosion to the frames of folding chairs, and water damage to chair covers and the inside of 
bicycle helmets, making them impossible to clean. I think these points are reasonable. As 
RSA explained, flood water is often contaminated with sewage waste and other bacteria and 
can be extremely harmful. Again, I think the chances of successfully cleaning these items 
would have been low, and I dont think its unreasonable to rely on the expert opinion of 
RSAs agent in this case.
Mr L said his copy of his policy was lost in the flood, so he relied on RSA to know what he 
was covered for. I think this is a fair point. However, it doesnt affect my decision. In my 
opinion, it wouldnt have made a difference if Mr L had known the items werent insured 
because they were BER. Mr L would have had to arrange for their disposal himself if RSAs 
agent hadnt removed them.
Ill make two more points. First, Mr L signed the inventory listing items for disposal. So I think 
he had the opportunity to challenge their removal and disposal before he signed the 
inventory if he thought they were salvageable. Second, his bicycle and some manual tools  
also stored in the shed and damaged by the flood  werent removed for disposal. The 
photos show RSAs agent disinfecting and cleaning both the bicycle chain and the garden 
tools. To my mind, this shows RSAs agent was selective about what could be salvaged and 
what could not.
For the reasons above, I think RSAs payment of £200 compensation to Mr L was fair. It 
follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman