DRN-3382448
The complaint
Mrs P complains that she was mis-sold a life assurance policy by Sesame Limited.
What happened
Between October 2018 and April 2019 Mrs P had several telephone conversations with 
Sesame Limited (Sesame). These were to discuss Mrs Ps life assurance requirements and 
to provide quotes for cover. This was because a policy Sesame had put in place for Mrs P in 
2017 had lapsed.
In April 2019 Mrs P took out two policies with an insurer, via Sesame. This was a non-
advised sale. The policy of relevance here was a 25-year level term life and critical illness 
policy with a sum assured of £50,000. This policy included additional benefits for dependants 
who were diagnosed with certain critical illnesses. 
Sadly, Mrs Ps daughter later became very ill and was diagnosed with Crohns disease. 
So, Mrs P contacted both the insurer and Sesame to enquire about making a claim. It was 
then that she found out her daughter wasnt covered for Crohns disease. 
Mrs P was unhappy about this and so she complained to Sesame. She said she understood 
when purchasing the policy that shed paid for upgraded critical illness cover and for this to 
be extended to her dependants. Specifically, she said that shed taken the option that 
included Crohns disease cover. And thats because shed had Crohns disease when she 
was younger and wanted to be covered for this.
Sesame looked into things but didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. It listened to the call from 
February 2019 and said that the upgraded critical illness cover and upgraded childrens 
benefit were discussed at length. However, Mrs P declined this option. It said the quote it 
then sent Mrs P and the follow up documentation from the insurer all showed that upgraded 
critical illness cover had not been added to the policy for either Mrs P or her dependants. 
Sesame agreed Mrs P had discussed her Crohns disease when taking out the policy and 
was told this wasnt excluded from the policy. But Sesame then confirmed Crohns disease is 
only covered as a condition under the upgraded critical illness benefit. It acknowledged that 
Mrs P may have therefore thought this was covered under the policy and offered a payment 
of £250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs P remained unhappy so brought her concerns to our service. She told us how difficult 
her family had found things since her daughter had been ill.
Our Investigator looked into things and issued a view on the complaint. They didnt ask 
Sesame to take any further action. They agreed Sesame had missed an opportunity to 
clarify that Crohns disease wasnt included in the standard cover level. Yet since Mrs P 
opted for this level and received clear policy information about this, they didnt think it would 
be fair to ask Sesame to pay the claim. They thought the £250 offered by Sesame was fair 
compensation for this error.
In response Mrs P said that had Sesame told her there was no cover for Crohns disease 
she wouldve asked for a policy which gave this cover. So, she felt Sesame should honour 
the claim. 
Our Investigator then requested further information from insurers about whether Mrs P would 
have been offered cover for Crohns disease for either herself or her children. However, 
based on the information obtained they didnt think this was likely given it was a pre-existing 
condition for Mrs P. So, they didnt change their findings.
Mrs P disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by saying I was sorry to hear about the health difficulties Mrs Ps daughter 
has experienced over recent years. I dont doubt this has been incredibly stressful for the 
entire family and that the disappointment of not having the claim paid has added to this. But I 
have to assess this complaint objectively and come to a decision which is fair and 
reasonable on the basis of the evidence I have. And having done so, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs P  Ill explain why Ive reached 
this decision. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mrs P has said she was told by Sesame Crohns disease 
would be covered under her policy. She said she thought she was taking out the additional 
level of cover for both her and her children. She has since found out this is not the case. 
Mrs P has said that had she known there was no cover for Crohns disease, shed have 
obtained cover elsewhere.
So, I have listened to the calls at the heart of this complaint to understand what happened. 
The level of Mrs Ps cover was discussed in the call where her application for the policy was 
completed. I dont intend to quote the call here as I can see a transcript was included in the 
final response provided by Sesame to Mrs P. And having listened to the call alongside this, 
Im satisfied it is broadly accurate. 
To summarise, Mrs P was told the insurer offered two levels of critical illness cover. 
The advisor told Mrs P that the core cover gave full payment for 37 conditions, with certain 
other conditions qualifying for partial payment. This was at a total cost of £90.34 a month for 
both policies that Mrs P was taking out. The advisor then explained upgraded cover would 
provide a full payment for 50 conditions with a partial payment for 38 other conditions. 
This was at a total cost of £106.78 per month for both policies. Mrs P said it was difficult to 
know what to do but then told the advisor she would just go for the standard cover because 
shed previously been paying a premium of £82 per month for similar cover and would rather 
keep her payment amount similar. 
The advisor then told Mrs P that standard critical illness cover includes standard childrens 
critical illness cover but that shed have the option to upgrade the childrens cover at a cost 
of a pound or two a month. The advisor then offered to provide a quote for the cost 
difference but checked Mrs P had children first. Mrs P confirmed she did and asked about 
ages to qualify for the cover. She then replied yeah, I think I want to go ahead with that. 
No further quotes for the upgraded cover were discussed and the call moved on. At no other 
points in the call was the level of cover applied for discussed.In relation to Crohns disease specifically, Mrs P didnt ask about cover for this in the 
application call or in any of the quotation calls leading up to this. It was, however, discussed 
in a follow up call where Mrs P was told shed been approved for the policy following medical 
underwriting. In this call Mrs P asked if any exclusions had been applied and the Sesame 
advisor told her he thought there would be an exclusion for Crohns disease, but he couldnt 
see one. He then confirmed there was no exclusion for Crohns disease and that otherwise 
everything else is covered. The advisor told Mrs P that if her Crohns disease did flair up and 
become severe it would not be excluded on that basis. 
Looking first at the level of cover, I think Mrs P clearly opted for the standard level of cover 
for herself. Her answer to the question about additional cover for her children is a bit 
ambiguous and I dont think its entirely clear what shes going ahead with. But given Mrs P 
didnt get a quote for the upgraded childrens cover and that towards the end of the call she 
added fracture cover at a cost of £3.78 per month and was then told her total monthly 
premium would only be £94.12, I dont think Sesame gave her the impression this cover was 
added to her policy. I say this also keeping in mind Mrs P was then sent quotation and policy 
documentation by Sesame and the insurer detailing her level of cover. And that she was told 
to check this carefully. And nowhere does her policy schedule suggest she had upgraded 
childrens critical illness cover. 
Its clear that in the follow up call Mrs P was given the impression by the Sesame 
representative that she was covered for Crohns disease. Its accurate that this wasnt 
excluded from her policy, but it wasnt excluded because it wasnt a condition listed under 
the policy  and this wasnt made clear. So, I do think this was a mistake on Sesames part 
that led to Mrs P having a mistaken impression she was covered for Crohns disease.
Ive thought about what would have happened had Sesame not told Mrs P she wouldnt be 
excluded if her Crohns disease flared up again. I appreciate Mrs P has told us that cover for 
this condition was important to her and that shed have upgraded or obtained an alternative 
policy that offered this cover. But Im not persuaded this would have been the case. Mrs P 
never mentioned Crohns disease in any of the discussions about why she was seeking 
cover or what she was looking for. The only reason this was discussed in the follow up call 
was because the Sesame advisor brought it up when Mrs P asked if any exclusions had 
been applied to the policy. And if it was that important to Mrs P, Id have expected her to 
mention this at that time, when the policy was being chosen and applied for. In addition, Ive 
seen evidence from insurers, including Mrs Ps insurer, to show they wouldnt have been 
willing to offer Mrs P cover for Crohns disease as it was a pre-existing condition. So even if I 
thought Mrs P would had sought cover specifically for Crohns disease had Sesame not 
made a mistake, I dont think its likely shed have been able to obtain this for herself. 
Mrs P and Sesame never discussed or mentioned whether her children would be covered for 
Crohns disease. So, whilst I appreciate Sesame gave Mrs P the incorrect impression she 
was covered for Crohns disease, I dont think it can be fairly said it also gave the impression 
her children were covered. I say this noting that, according to the terms and conditions of the 
policy, the only way the children would have been covered is if Mrs P had opted for the 
upgraded childrens critical illness cover. And thats regardless of whether Mrs P had also 
opted for the upgraded cover for herself. Yet its clear from the calls Ive listened to that she 
didnt take this option. As outlined above, the scope of the childrens cover and how it 
worked wasnt really discussed with Sesame. The level of cover Mrs P had, and what was 
required for a childrens claim for Crohns disease, was confirmed in the policy 
documentation Mrs P was later sent. So, I dont think it can be reasonably said that the 
mistake Sesame made impacted whether Mrs Ps children had cover for Crohns disease. 
And given no cover was in place, I dont think it would be fair to ask Sesame to pay Mrs Ps 
daughters claim. Id also note that if childrens cover for Crohns disease was important to 
Mrs P, Id also have expected this to have been mentioned.For all of these reasons, on balance I dont think that, but for Sesames error, Mrs P would 
have obtained another policy.
That being said, I do think this error caused a loss of expectation and distress to Mrs P about 
the level of cover she had. Taking everything into account, I think the £250 Sesame has 
offered is fair compensation for this.  
As an aside, I note that Mrs P has recently told our service she feels the sale of this policy 
was pressurised. I cant see that this complaint has been raised with Sesame and so its not 
something I can comment on in this decision. However, if Mrs P wants to complain about 
this, she can contact Sesame and allow it the opportunity to look into her concerns. If she is 
unhappy with the response from Sesame, she can then bring her complaint to this service in 
the usual way. 
My final decision
I am aware that Sesame Limited has made an offer to pay £250. I conclude that such an 
offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Sesame Limited 
should pay Mrs P £250 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman