DRN-1901795
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy because FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance supplied 
her with a car under a hire purchase agreement which she believes wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs M acquired a used car which she financed through a 60 month hire 
purchase agreement with MotoNovo. The cash price of the car was over £10,500, it had 
travelled over 49,500 miles and it was first registered in October 2012.
Mrs M said a few days later, she returned the car to the dealership as the engine 
management light came on and the car was losing power. She said she was told it needed a 
new battery and a new one was fitted by the dealership but they found no other faults. 
According to Mrs M, around May 2019, the car was returned on another occasion to the 
dealership and the diesel particulate filter (DPF) was cleaned. She said when she advised 
the engine lights continued to show, the dealership told her it was just a sensor.
Mrs M said she continued to report this issue to the dealership and around September 2019, 
they advised her to take it to a third party garage for repairs to see if it would be covered by 
warranty. Fault codes relating to the DPF and exhaust flap were identified and repairs were 
carried out to the exhaust including the actuator unit. However the warranty claim was 
denied meaning Mrs M was required to pay for the repair, which was almost £800. 
As the car continued to have issues, Mrs M complained to MotoNovo and they arranged for 
an independent inspection to be carried out in November 2019. 
The inspection report commented that Mrs M had arranged for the fault codes to be removed 
prior to the inspection so she could drive the car. It concluded the car didnt display any fault 
codes, there were no noticeable faults with the DPF, the battery had been replaced and the 
car was driving as expected for a car of its age and mileage. 
A few weeks later in December 2019, Mrs M reported she was unable to drive the car as it 
was in limp mode. MotoNovo arranged for another independent inspection and she was 
advised not to clear any fault codes. The inspection determined the car had suffered a 
turbocharger failure and there were three fault codes which required further investigation. It 
said these faults werent related to the earlier repairs carried out in September 2019 and its 
likely to have developed in the last 500 to 1,000 miles of usage. It concluded on balance, the 
faults werent present at the time it was supplied. 
 
On this basis, MotoNovo determined the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
Mrs M said her car wasnt safe to drive and she was experiencing financial difficulty in 
maintaining the monthly payments and the cost of the repairs. MotoNovo said they had 
referred her to a specialist team within the business to see if there was any way that they 
could support her. 
Unhappy with their response, Mrs M referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. Based on the findings of the independent inspection 
in December 2019, they believed there was insufficient evidence to say the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. 
Mrs M disagreed. She said as the inspection concluded more investigation was needed to 
identify the exact cause of the fault and the extent of the damage, MotoNovo cant say the 
faults werent present when she acquired the car. She also said the warranty claim was 
denied due to the exhaust being corroded and she believes this wouldve been present when 
she acquired the car. 
Mrs M and MotoNovo were asked to provide further evidence to show when the car was 
returned to the dealership and what happened. MotoNovo said the dealership had ceased 
trading and they had provided all the job cards they had although they mentioned the date 
on the invoice may show the date it was printed rather than the actual date. Mrs M reiterated 
her position but didnt provide any further evidence. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint, Ill explain why.
Mrs M acquired the car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. MotoNovo is the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a 
complaint about the supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 implies a term into the contract that the quality of the
goods is satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history.
In this case, MotoNovo supplied Mrs M with a used car that was over six years old and had 
travelled over 49,500 miles when supplied. 
I know Mrs M said she returned the car to the dealership on two occasions and one being 
around May 2019 where she said the DPF was cleaned. Ive asked her and MotoNovo for 
job cards, emails, etc in relation to the same but neither party has been able to do so 
meaning its difficult to know exactly what happened. Based on what Ive seen, I do have a 
job card from the dealership showing the battery was replaced, Mrs M reported issues with 
the car to the dealership in September 2019 and a repair was carried out by a third party 
garage. 
The exhaust
Based on the job cards of September 2019, it shows there was an issue with the exhaust 
and it was also corroded which meant parts of it, had to be replaced so it is evident there 
was a fault with the car. However although this was the case, I must consider whether I 
believe this fault was present when supplied, and if it was, would it have meant the car was 
of unsatisfactory quality. For used cars, its reasonable to expect parts such as the exhaust may already have 
suffered wear and tear and elements of corrosion may be present. This in itself doesnt 
mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality, but it may mean parts need to be repaired or 
maintained sooner than a newer car or one that is less travelled. 
One of parts looked at during the MOT is the exhaust system and the engineer must 
determine whether its a pass or fail. In this case, Ive checked the previous MOT records for 
Mrs Ms car and I can see it passed in March 2019, a month prior to her acquiring it, and no 
advisories nor defects were listed. So on balance this would suggest there wasnt an issue 
with the exhaust or at least not one to an extent that it was considered a failure or to be 
recorded as a MOT advisory. 
Given the car was over six years old, its mileage when supplied (around 49,500) and the fact 
Mrs M had the car in her possession for around five months and travelled over 3,000 miles, I 
believe the fault with the exhaust wasnt present at supply and its likely due to general wear 
and tear. So I dont think the fault with the exhaust made the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
The diesel particulate filter (DPF) and turbocharger
As mentioned above, Mrs M said the DPF was cleaned shortly after acquiring the car but I 
have insufficient evidence about this so I cant say what happened.
The job cards of September 2019 indicate there were fault codes related to the DPF 
however it doesnt show any repairs were carried out. Its unclear what exactly happened 
here and what was discussed i.e. whether the garage determined a repair wasnt required or 
they failed to carry one out. On balance, I believe there was something wrong with the DPF 
but given the number of miles travelled and how long it had been in Mrs Ms possession, Im 
not persuaded it was present or developing at the time it was supplied. 
The independent inspection in November 2019 found no stored or pending fault codes 
reporting on the live data relating to the DPF or otherwise. Although I note Mrs M had 
arranged for the fault codes to be cleared by a mechanic she knew so she could drive the 
car. Its unknown what fault codes were displaying and when exactly they were cleared.
By the time of the independent inspection in December 2019, the situation had changed. 
Faults codes were identified relating to the DPF, engine oil and pre-heating unit. The 
engineer determined the car had suffered a turbocharger failure and said its likely to be 
linked to the DPF. The engineer commented the life span of a turbocharger is between 
40,000 to 120,000 miles and I find Mrs Ms car was within this range. The engineer 
concluded the faults wouldnt have been present at supply and is likely to have developed 
within the last 500 to 1,000 miles. This may explain why it wasnt present at the time of the 
November 2019 inspection or it may be because the fault codes were cleared. It also said 
this fault wasnt related to the exhaust repair that was carried out in September 2019. Having 
carefully considered the report, I believe its reasonable to rely on its conclusion as it was 
carried out by an experienced technician and it has provided details concerning the faults 
with the turbocharger, DPF and most importantly, when it is likely to have occurred. 
I note Mrs Ms comments that the engineer wasnt able to determine the exact cause of the 
fault and the extent of the damage however when considering this complaint, I must consider 
whether the faults were present at supply which made the car of unsatisfactory quality. So 
while the engineer couldnt provide the further detail about the fault, they were able to say it 
wouldnt have been present at supply and its likely to be a result of general wear and tear 
given the age and mileage of the car. So on that basis I cant say MotoNovo has acted unfairly by relying on this report to determine Mrs Ms car was of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
Conclusion 
Taking everything into account, based on the faults concerning the exhaust and I dont 
believe they were present when Mrs M took possession of the car in April 2019 meaning it  
was of satisfactory quality when supplied. Instead I believe the faults were a result of 
reasonable wear and tear which is to be expected given the age and mileage of the car and 
the fact it had travelled almost 5,000 miles since the start of the agreement. Therefore it 
wouldnt be fair to expect MotoNovo to repair the car nor allow rejection so I wont be asking 
them to do anything further to settle the complaint. 
I appreciate this has been a challenging time for Mrs M and for personal reasons the issues 
with the car has caused her a great deal of stress. Im sorry to hear she experienced such 
problems. I understand my decision will come as disappointment to her but I hope she 
accepts my reasons for doing so. I encourage MotoNovo to treat Mrs M fairly and to continue 
to work with her to provide support given her financial circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman