DRN-2436504
The complaint
Mr B says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2004. The policy was added to 
Mr Bs credit card account when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Bs signed application for the credit card. It includes equally 
prominent options to take or decline PPI. Mr B ticked the Yes box to indicate that he 
wished to take the cover.
Im satisfied that it was clear from the way PPI was presented on the application form 
that it was optional. And I think Mr B decided to take it, knowing that he had a choice  
although I can understand how he may no longer remember this, so many years later.
Mr B applied for the credit card and PPI by post. So I think its unlikely that he had any 
direct contact with Capital Ones staff about the application, and its unlikely that Capital 
One recommended the PPI to Mr B. This means that it didnt have a responsibility to 
check that the PPI was suitable for him. It was for Mr B to decide for himself whether he 
wanted to take the cover, knowing what alternative means hed have had of making his 
monthly credit card repayments if hed been unable to work. But Capital One did have a 
responsibility to give Mr B enough information to enable him to decide for himself 
whether the PPI was right for him.
Mr Bs told us hed have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay from his employer at the time if hed been off sick. If hed made a successful claim on 
the policy for accident or sickness, it would have helped with his monthly credit card 
repayments for up to 12 months per successful claim. Thats longer than Mr Bs told us 
hed have been entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have paid the same benefit if 
hed made a successful unemployment claim. Whats more, the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any payments Mr B received from his employer. So he could have used 
those to meet other day-to-day living costs.
I acknowledge that Mr Bs told us he had significant savings at the time, but hes 
mentioned that he bought his first property within a couple of years of opening the credit 
card account, and he spent the bulk of his savings on refurbishing the property. So it 
seems likely that Mr B planned to spend his savings on property within the foreseeable 
future when he opened the credit card account. And having the PPI would have 
protected those savings if hed been off sick, or if hed lost his job.
Mr Bs mentioned that he had critical illness cover. But thats a different type of 
insurance, and wouldnt have paid out in the same circumstances as the PPI. And 
although Mr Bs employer had an income protection insurance scheme, neither Mr B nor 
his employer has been able to establish whether Mr B was a member of that scheme.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful for Mr B.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that I think Mr B chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looks as if he wanted this type of cover at the time, even if hes understandably forgotten 
that now, so long after the event. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time, Mr B was eligible for the policy. And he doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the main things it didnt cover (for example provisions about unusual working 
arrangements or existing medical conditions).
The premiums for the PPI would have been shown on Mr Bs monthly credit card 
statements. And since he was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at any 
time without further charge if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer 
wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Mr B would have made a different 
decision about taking the PPI even if hed been given better information about the policy.
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because:
When the policy was sold, Capital One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. 
Because Capital One didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium to Mr B - and I think thats fair in this case.
Capital One applied most of the refund to Mr Bs account balance, and sent Mr B a cheque 
for the remainder of the refund. I understand that Mr B didnt pay the cheque in and it 
expired. Capital One has confirmed that it is willing to issue a replacement cheque.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. If Capital One (Europe) plc hasnt already sent Mr B a 
replacement for the cheque it previously sent him for the balance of the refund, it should now 
do so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman