DRN-2005544
The complaint
Mr A complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined the claim he 
made under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A has a pet insurance policy for his dog which is underwritten by Red Sands. He took out 
this policy in April 2018. In July 2018, Mr As dog went to the vets because of a bad cough. It 
was later diagnosed that she had a heart condition. Mr A made a claim on his policy for the 
vets fees.
Red Sands declined the claim. It firstly explained to Mr A that his dogs vets notes showed 
shed had a cough before she was covered. And it linked the two conditions together and 
said that this issue was a pre-existing medical condition. Red Sands explained that it didnt 
cover any pre-existing conditions so it wouldnt be able to accept Mr As claim.
Mr A disputed this and sent in a letter from the vets to say the two conditions werent related. 
Red Sands took another look but explained that Mr As dog had previously had a heart 
murmur recorded on her records. It said that from that point it wouldnt cover any heart 
conditions. As the heart murmur was detected in 2015, before Mr A took out this policy, Red 
Sands said it wouldnt cover any heart conditions. So the claim was still declined.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She explained that the policy definition of pre-
existing medical conditions captures the issues that Mr As dog had before he took out this 
policy. And she felt Red Sands had acted fairly when it declined his claim. Mr A disagreed so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to determine whether Red Sands has acted fairly in declining Mr As claim. I 
think it has and Ill explain why.
When Mr A took out the policy he received the policy terms. These say, under general 
exclusions that pre-existing medical conditions wont be covered. The definitions of the 
policy say:
Pre-existing condition means:
- any condition, symptom or sign of a condition occurring or existing in any form and at any 
time prior to the commencement date; or
- any illness, symptom or sign of an illness occurring or existing in any form during the first 
14 days of the commencement date.
Mr As policy started on 3 April 2018, and it wasnt until July 2018 that his dog went to the 
vets and was diagnosed with a heart condition. I can understand why Mr A challenged Red 
Sands when it first declined his claim. His dogs coughing had been caused by different 
issues previously and his vet confirmed this. However, Red Sands obtained all the medical 
notes for Mr As dog, as Id expect it to do when looking into a claim.
The medical notes say that Mr As dog had a heart murmur detected on 22 September 2015. 
It was advised that she avoid stairs. Red Sands has given me its underwriting criteria that it 
applies to every policy. It says that if an animal is diagnosed with a heart murmur then it will 
exclude cover on all claims with respect to heart conditions with effect from the date the 
heart murmur was diagnosed.
As Mr As dogs heart murmur was put on her notes in 2015, then the cover for any heart 
conditions under the policy would be excluded from this date. And it would be considered a 
pre-existing condition based on the policy definitions. As Red Sands has applied its 
underwriting criteria to Mr A's policy in the way it would any other policy I cant say its acted 
unfairly in these circumstances. I think it declined Mr As claim in line with the terms of his 
policy. And it was reasonable to apply the exclusion based on Mr As dogs notes.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr A, but Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that his claim was declined unfairly. So, I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman