DRN-2821105
The complaint
 Miss M has complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) unfairly 
cancelled her motor insurance policy after she provided incorrect details when purchasing 
her policy.
 
What happened
Miss M purchased her policy in February 2020 through a price comparison website. In 
selecting her insurance cover, the site had asked; How long have you held this licence? 
Miss M provided a date which was a year earlier than the correct date. In March 2020, 
Skyfire wrote to Miss M asking for a copy of her driving licence and following receipt of the 
document, it carried out validation checks.
Skyfire cancelled the policy due to the discrepancy and said that Miss M had misrepresented 
the date on which shed passed her test. Miss M complained to Skyfire about its decision. It 
didnt change its response however, stating that it was the responsibility of the policyholder 
to ensure that all the details provided in the application were correct. It also said that Miss M 
was allowed sufficient time to check documents and to contact Skyfire if any of the 
information was wrong.
Miss M complained to our service about the cancellation and explained that shed made an 
unintentional error in applying for her insurance. She wanted a refund of the cancellation fee 
and confirmation that this wouldnt affect future insurance. She also complained about the 
way that Skyfire had handled her complaint. 
Skyfire explained that Miss M had obtained quotes from Skyfire. It said that Miss M had 
initially entered the correct date on which shed passed her driving test. Two days later she 
twice entered an incorrect date and purchased her insurance on that basis. The price of the 
first quote far exceeded the second set of quotes.
The investigator explained the services approach when considering complaints in relation to 
misrepresentation. The investigator considered that the question asked of Miss M regarding 
her licence was clear and specific. She said that, whilst sympathetic regarding the difficulties 
Miss M was facing, there was an onus on the consumer to ensure that information given 
when seeking insurance quotes was accurate and true. 
The investigator was satisfied that Miss M didnt take reasonable care in answering the 
question and that Skyfire was entitled to cancel the policy. She said that regulations stated 
that the insurer was entitled to avoid the policy and keep all premiums. She concluded that it 
wouldnt be fair to ask Skyfire to refund the £75 cancellation fee in the circumstances.
Miss M responded, stating that the prolonged stress was having an adverse effect on her 
health and she needed a vehicle for daily use in the light of a medical condition. She 
reiterated that shed made an innocent error and that shed no intention to provide an earlier 
date to get a cheaper premium. Miss M also stated that she was neither reckless nor 
careless in completing the application and said that she simply hadnt recognised an error in 
her documents.
The investigator said she hadnt seen any information to help her change her mind. She said 
she couldnt let difficult or distressing situations impact upon her impartiality. She considered 
there was an onus on the customer to ensure that shed fully read her documents during the 
cooling off period when theyd been sent out for her to check. She concluded; Youve 
honestly accepted you didnt have your drivers licence to hand, when answering the 
question. This alone, is reckless, because theres always a possibility of the answer being 
wrong. My focus was to consider if youve taken reasonable care in answering the question. 
Unfortunately, I cant say you did take reasonable care.
The investigator said that Miss M would have been expected to have questioned the 
significant price difference between the low and high quotes, as the quotes were only 
completed within two days of each other. The investigator also said that the 14 day cooling 
off period was the opportunity for Miss M to check the documents and to ensure the 
answers she gave were correct, so, she couldnt say that Skyfire didnt give her the 
opportunity to check this.
In a further response, Miss M accepted her actions to be careless. She said that this was the 
third time shed bought car insurance. Shed checked her documents but didnt recognise an 
error. She said that shed obtained numerous quotes from various companies and was 
unaware of the price difference at the relevant time. She said that at no point did she know 
that the information she entered was untrue. As soon as she was made aware of her error, 
she tried to rectify it.
The investigator didnt amend her view in the light of this further response. Miss M remains 
unhappy and the matter has therefore been referred to me to make a final decision in my 
role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I greatly sympathise with Miss M in the light of the additional difficulties shes faced over the 
Covid pandemic. My role is to consider whether Skyfire acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
light of the law and insurance policy terms however. In all the circumstances of this case, I 
cannot say that it has. Ill explain why.
The relevant law here is found in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). It says that its the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation to the insurer. If a consumer fails to take care, the insurer has 
certain remedies, provided the misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as, a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms, or not have offered it at all if the consumer 
hadnt made the misrepresentation.
The standard of care to be applied is that of a reasonable consumer. If a misrepresentation 
is deliberate or reckless, an insurer may treat the insurance contract as if it never existed, 
retain the premium and refuse all claims.
If the insurer would still have provided the insurance but charged a higher premium to do so,
it may reduce the amount to be paid on a proportionate basis. It cannot entirely reject the
claim however.CIDRA also sets out considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these considerations is how clear and specific the insurers 
questions are. Skyfires position is that it asked clear questions on the online price 
comparison website when Miss M bought the policy and that it had acted within its policy 
terms and conditions. 
Ive looked at how Miss M applied for the policy, the answer provided, and the information 
confirmed by the business in the Statement of Fact included with the policy documents in 
February 2020.
When Miss M was applying for her policy on the price comparison website, the question 
regarding her driving licence was;
How long have you held this licence?. The information box next to the question says the 
following: The amount of years selected needs to be in a number of full years since you 
passed your driving test e.g. if you passed your test 2 years 11 months ago, you must 
answer 2 years. You will need to enter the date you passed your test if it was less than 4 
years ago. If you havent passed your test yet, this needs to be the number of years since 
you received your provisional licence. On a UK photo card licence, you can find the valid 
from date in section 10 on the back of your licence.
Im satisfied that the instructions are clear and specific, and they clearly explain where 
consumers can find the relevant date - on the back of their drivers licence.
In the Statement of Fact sent with the policy documents, the note at the top of the document 
states; Please read the following information carefully. It is a record of statements made and 
information given by you and constitutes the basis of your contract of Insurance. If any 
information is omitted or is incorrect, please telephone us immediately with the correct 
information and we will send you a revised Statement of Fact. If any of the information is 
incorrect it could invalidate your Insurance or result in a claim not being paid.
The policy terms and conditions are usually the starting point in understanding whether the 
insurer has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances, although we also then 
expect the insurer to apply those terms fairly and reasonably. In this case, the terms and 
conditions set out the policyholders duties as follows;
The insurer will only provide you with the cover set out in this policy ifthe information you 
gave on your Statement of Fact or claims report is true and complete
...If you were not aware that the information you had provided was false, depending on the
nature of the information, your insurer may cancel your policy or you may be asked to pay an 
extra premium. They could also charge a cancellation or amendment fee.
The terms and conditions also expect policyholders to provide Skyfire with relevant 
information; 
Your premium is based on the information you supplied when you started, amended or 
renewed your insurance. If you have failed to give us complete and accurate information, 
this could lead to your claim being denied, you having to pay any costs or the insurance not 
being valid In the general conditions at Section 11 of the policy, it also states:
If the insurer discovers that you or someone acting for you had knowingly provided false 
information, the insurer will make the policy void and treat it as though it had never existed 
and not refund any premium or pay your claim. If you were not aware that the information 
you had provided was false, depending on the nature of the information, your insurer may cancel your policy or you may be asked to pay an extra premium. They could also charge a 
cancellation or amendment fee.
Where there has been a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, the normal course of 
action for an insurer to take would be to avoid the policy so that its treated as if it never 
existed. In this case, theres a degree of confusion as Skyfire cancelled the policy instead, 
although the consequences remain the same for Miss M in either case.
In these particular circumstances, Im satisfied that Miss Ms response to the question 
regarding how long shed held a driving licence amounted to a qualifying misrepresentation 
under CIDRA. If Skyfire had been given the correct information by Miss M, it would have 
offered the policy on different terms, that is at a much higher price than that for which Miss M 
was able to buy her policy.
What I must then consider is whether this misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless or 
careless. CIDRA says that a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer 
knew the answer was untrue or misleading or didnt care if it was untrue or misleading. A 
misrepresentation is careless if it isnt deliberate or reckless.
Miss M says that she made an unintentional but genuine error and she was frank in saying 
that the question which Skyfire asked; was clear for me to answer confidently. Skyfire has 
also produced a copy of a database showing the quotes generated on two different dates in 
February 2020 which produce a significant difference in price depending on the date Miss M 
passed her driving test.
On balance, Im afraid that I must conclude that the response to the relevant question by 
Miss M was reckless and this enabled Skyfire to treat the policy as if it had never existed. 
The failure to check and correct information on her Statement of Fact was also reckless as it 
would have been reasonable to expect Miss M to have checked the information contained in 
this document.
I have reached this conclusion on the balance of probabilities bearing in mind that Miss M 
had passed her test relatively recently and this would have been a significant milestone for 
her. She had also clearly included the correct date in one request for a quote to Skyfire. In 
addition, this was the third time she had obtained insurance and it was not an unfamiliar 
process. Lastly and connected to the previous point, Miss M would have been aware of the 
importance of providing correct answers and of the need for complete openness.  
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that Miss Ms misrepresentation was reckless and I 
cant say that that Skyfire has acted unfairly or unreasonably in cancelling her policy and in 
levying a fee in doing so. It didnt respond when it said it would in relation to Miss Ms initial 
complaint, however it did apologise for this omission and I dont require Skyfire to do 
anything else in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend uphold Miss Ms complaint and I dont direct 
Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Claire JonesOmbudsman