DRN-2746473
The complaint
Ms V complains about Santander UK Plc (Santander) and the rate it applied to a payment 
she received into her account. She feels that the payment was delayed and too high a rate 
was applied to her transaction, causing her financial loss. 
What happened
Ms V holds a standard Santander account. She also holds a separate account in another 
bank based in a European state. In March 2020, she wanted to transfer the sum of €1000 
into her Santander account and instructed her European bank to make the transfer.
Ms Vs European bank made the transfer and informed Ms V that the transfer was made on 
30 March 2020. 
Santander received the transfer in euros on the morning of 31 March 2020. Santander then 
applied its exchange rate on 31 March to the funds. This resulted in a deposit into Ms Vs 
account of £862.60.
Santander sent a confirmation of the rate used to Ms V by post.  
Ms V was unhappy with the amount she received and contacted Santander. Santander 
ordered Ms V replacement statements. 
Ms V contacted us. Santander did not have a record of a complaint so responded to the 
complaint after it was referred to us. 
In its response, Santander indicated that it did charge a fee for international payments and 
directed Ms V to her European bank for any further explanation of why the amount was less 
than she expected. No fee was detailed in any of the other correspondence sent to Ms V.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that she had not seen evidence that Santander had done anything wrong and so she 
did not recommend Santander do anything further.
Ms V did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. She indicated that she 
felt that the rate applied by Santander included a fee and this was not made clear to her up 
front. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Vs frustration and disappointment at receiving a smaller deposit than she 
had expected, but I agree with the investigators view. The investigator has set out the 
evidence provided to us which demonstrates when the payment was received by Santander, 
and that the appropriate rate was applied to the payment on 31 March 2020. I have seen no 
evidence to contradict this. 
Ms V considers that Santander has blamed the other bank for the delay in the transaction. I 
do not see evidence of blame being attributed, and the explanation simply explains that time 
delays occur in transactions so it may be the case that something being processed on one 
day by one bank may not register with another until the following day. This is not unusual. 
I understand Ms V thinks that Santanders rate was too high. As the investigator explained, 
banks are able to set their own rates and this is not something we are able to consider. 
Those rates are published and so long as they are applied correctly and fairly this is not 
inappropriate. 
The evidence demonstrates that Santander applied its rates fairly to the transaction and that 
it processed the payment promptly on receipt and in line with its usual procedures. I have not 
seen evidence that Santander departed from its published rates or processes in this 
transaction, and so cannot see evidence that Santander has treated Ms V unfairly. 
I appreciate that Ms V feels that the rates applied by banks include a fee and that they ought 
to use a mid-market rate. There is no obligation upon Santander to do this and its terms 
make clear that it will apply different rates depending on whether the transaction is buying or 
selling currency. Santanders terms also clarify that the selling rate applies to a payment into 
the account in a different currency. These transaction rates may include a proportion to 
reflect costs or profit, but these are not additional charges and are evenly applied. 
I note that the business final response inaccurately detailed that fees may be incurred when 
paying in foreign currency, and that this initially caused some confusion, but the additional 
correspondence, including the breakdown of the transaction, made clear that no additional 
charges or fees were applied. I therefore do not consider this a substantial failing. 
I appreciate that Ms V will be upset by this decision, but for these reasons I do not uphold 
her complaint and do not ask Santander to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Ms Vs complaint and do not ask Santander UK 
Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman