DRN-3621855
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited gave to 
transfer the benefits from one of his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes 
and also one of his personal pensions to a new provider P. He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr D to bring his complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to their comments as being Mr Ds.
Similarly, a law firm replied to Mr Ds complaint on Acumens behalf. But, for simplicity, I will 
refer to the law firms comments as being Acumens.
What happened
In 2017 Mr Ds current employer closed down its existing DB scheme. I will refer to that 
scheme as the BSPS. That schemes trustees consulted with its members about their 
options moving forward. Mr D was concerned about what this meant for the security of his 
BSPS pension. So, he contacted Acumen for advice. Mr D met with it three times in total 
between August 2017 and January 2018. 
Acumen completed a fact-find. As well as gathering information about Mr Ds entitlement 
under the BSPS scheme it also identified that Mr D was a deferred member of his former 
employers DB Scheme, which Ill call the ATC scheme. It also noted that he had invested in 
three personal pensions. Amongst other things Acumen recorded that:
Mr D was aged 49, married with two financially independent adult daughters.
He was employed and his yearly annual income was around £37,000.
His home was valued at £170,000 with no outstanding mortgage.
He had £9,000 in savings and had no outstanding debts.
He had two personal pensions, one, which Ill refer to as CL, was worth around 
£33,000 and a second, which Ill refer to as SL, had a value of around £73,000, 
although Acumen later referred to this value as around £72,000 in its suitability 
report.
Mr D was a deferred member of the BSPS and was also paying into a money 
purchase pension sponsored by his employer. Together he and his employer paid 
contributions of around 16% of his yearly salary into that pension.
He was a deferred member of the ATC scheme. That had a cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of £70,461. It would pay him an income of £3,948 a year at age 65. 
The growth rate required (the critical yield) to match the benefits from the ATC 
scheme was 6.7% a year.
Mr Ds wife worked part-time earning around £6-7,000 a year.
Both Mr and Mrs D were expecting to receive around £70,000 inheritance each at 
some unknown point in the future.
Mr Ds current BSPS scheme had a CETV of £169,445. It would pay him a yearly 
pension of £10,878 at age 65.
Mr D would like to retire at 58  although it said 57 in Acumens suitability report.
He anticipated wanting to access £20,000 from the pension at age 55 towards each 
of his daughters weddings.
His desired income in retirement was £1,500 a month.
His attitude to risk was lowest medium.
At the final meeting between Mr D and Acumen, in January 2018, on Acumens 
recommendation Mr D signed the relevant forms to transfer his ATC scheme benefits to P. 
On the same day he also signed forms to transfer his BSPS benefits to P. The next day 
Acumen produced a financial planning report setting out the reasons for its 
recommendations. Such documents are commonly known as suitability reports; so I will use 
that term when referring to it within this decision. The report heavily focuses on the benefits 
of the BSPS scheme. But, amongst other things, Acumen said:
It recommended that Mr D should transfer the funds from both his DB schemes to P. 
Critical yields were unlikely to be met from a personal pension and as such from an 
investment perspective a transfer wasn't feasible. 
Mr Ds desire for flexible access to his pension and the higher lump sum death 
benefits, which were better from a personal pension, were more important to Mr D.
A personal pension would allow Mr D to take his benefits at any time after reaching 
55 years old.
He could take 25% of his fund as tax free cash (TFC).
Income from P could sustain his desired level of income in retirement until he was 
116 years old. 
Acumen arranged for Mr Ds DB benefits to be transferred to two separate funds within one 
account managed by Ps provider. On 24 January 2018 CLs administrators wrote to 
Acumen to confirm they had transferred Mr Ds total fund of £33,481 to P. Acumen didnt 
recommend the transfer of the pension with SL because there was a penalty attached for 
doing so.
Mr D complained to Acumen in August 2021. In brief he said he didnt think that Acumens 
advice to transfer funds from either his ATC scheme or from CL was suitable as it wasn't in 
his best interests and attracted higher fees. 
Acumen replied to the complaint in October 2021. Its reply focused on the recommendation 
to transfer Mr Ds BSPS benefits to P. Amongst other things it said it wasnt required to 
guarantee or ensure that the transfer would prove to be suitable for Mr D. Instead it was 
required to exercise due skill and care to allow Mr D to make an informed decision, and to 
take reasonable steps to satisfy itself its advice was suitable. It said it believed it had done 
so. It said it had provided the appropriate suitability assessment, information, advice, 
comparisons and risk warnings. And as Mr D wanted the option of retiring early and the 
ability to pass on the capital value of his pension on his death, its advice to transfer was 
suitable for him.
Mr D brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She upheld the 
complaint and required Acumen to pay compensation. Amongst other things she said that 
Mr D was likely to be worse off by transferring the benefits from his ATC scheme. And 
Acumen hadn't provided a sufficient explanation for why it was in his best interests to 
transfer. She added that there was little evidence of what advice Acumen provided about 
transferring funds from CL. But she was satisfied that if it hadn't been for Acumens 
intervention Mr D wouldnt have transferred those funds. Acumen didnt reply to our investigators assessment of the complaint so it was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and replying to it Mr D and Acumen have made a number of 
detailed points. I've considered everything on file. But, in this decision, I dont intend to 
address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key 
points at the heart of Mr Ds complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
Mr D has also complained about Acumens advice to transfer benefits from the BSPS 
scheme. But, as we are looking at that complaint under a separate reference number, I dont 
intend to comment on the merits of that matter within this decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the regulators Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Acumens actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer. 
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the investigator.
Acumens said that COBS 9 required it to use reasonable skill and care to ensure that Mr D 
had enough information to make an informed decision. And to take reasonable steps to 
ensure its advice was suitable for Mr D, without ensuring that it would prove suitable. But, 
while I agree Acumen was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal 
recommendation to Mr D was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1), additional regulations also 
apply to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. In particular advising firms are required 
to start with an assumption that a transfer from a DB scheme is unsuitable (COBS 19.1.6). 
So, Acumen should have only considered recommending Mr D transfer his ATC benefits if it 
could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests. And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.Mr D transferred funds from two separate schemes (ATC and CL) following Acumens 
intervention. Ive looked at each separately.
The ATC scheme. 
Financial viability 
Acumen carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Ds pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). 
Acumen gave its advice after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 the 
Financial Ombudsman Service published similar rates on our website. Whilst businesses 
weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide 
a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
Mr D was 49 at the time of the advice and hoped to retire at 58, although the scheme's 
normal retirement age was 65. The critical yield required to match Mr Ds ATC benefits at 
age 65 was 6.7% if he took a full pension. The critical yield to match the benefits available 
through the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) at age 65 was 2.3% a year. But there was no 
indication that the ATC scheme was underfunded or was likely to go into the PPF; so I think I 
can reasonably disregard that figure.
The relevant discount rate, published by this Service, closest to when Acumen gave its 
advice which I can refer to was for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.3% a year 
for 15 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also 
remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, 
the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds 
lowest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him through his ATC scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest relevant 
critical yield was 6.7%, I think Mr D was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the ATC scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his 
attitude to risk. 
Acumen provided a cashflow model which it says shows Mr D would have been able to retire 
early and meet his income needs despite the high critical yield. But I think its worth noting 
that some of Acumens assumptions when estimating that Mr D could retire at age 58 and 
still meet his desired income until age 116, dont stand up to close scrutiny. For example, 
Acumen assumed that P would provide investment returns of at least 5% a year, every year. 
But, given the volatilities of the market and Mr Ds low-medium attitude to risk, a consistent 
return at that level seems unlikely. Also, if there was a sustained period of poor performance 
then there was a very real chance that Mr Ds fund would grow at a much slower rate or 
could suffer losses. And in those circumstances Mr Ds funds could be depleted earlier than 
Acumen projected 
Similarly, Acumen assumed that the total charges that would be deducted from the named 
personal pension would be 1.5% a year or less. But the named personal pension provider 
gave Mr D an illustration in January 2018 which showed that his fund charges (including investment expenses) would be 1.68% a year. Thats because 70% of the fund had a 
charge of 0.84% which is a charge of (0.84 x 0.7) 0.59% of the total fund. And the remaining 
30% had a charge of 0.79%, which is a charge of (0.79 x 0.3) 0.24% of the total fund. On top 
of that there was a platform charge of 0.35% of the total fund. And Acumen also added an 
adviser charge of 0.5% a year. So, in total the fees were likely to be 1.68% a year not the 
1.5% a year Acumen had assumed. And an increase in fees of that nature  over the 
timespan of Mr Ds investment  could reduce the return. For example, the difference in 
return between fees of 1.5% and 1.68% on an initial investment of £70,000, growing at a 
gross 5% over a period of 15 years, would be a reduction of around £3,020. 
Acumen also assumed that Mr D would maintain his income at a set level and not increase it 
throughout his lifetime. And, in order to do so, once Mr D began receiving his state pension 
at age 67 of around £670 a month, Acumen assumed he would reduce the income he took 
from his personal pension by around £400 a month. In other words, in order to be able to 
sustain the flexible access to his funds that Acumen was recommending, Mr D would need 
his state pension to top up his income when that became payable. Its also notable that 
Acumens financial model doesn't include any increases for inflation, so  in real terms  
Acumens model would see a reduction in Mr Ds spending power as inflation reduced the 
value of his pension pot. In contrast the benefits from his ATC scheme was index linked and 
would continue to increase for the rest of his life. But he would need to give up that 
guaranteed escalation of income by accepting Acumens recommendation to transfer to P. 
Further, I've noted that Acumen recognised that the critical yield was unlike to be matched. It 
also acknowledged that from an investment perspective a transfer wasnt feasible. For this 
reason alone a transfer out of the ATC scheme wasnt in Mr Ds best interests, as it would 
see him worse off in the long-run. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration 
when giving transfer advice, as Acumen has argued in this case. There might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
Ive considered these below.
When doing so Ive been mindful that Acumens role was to find out what Mr Ds wants and 
needs were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr D wanted without appropriate 
analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so, in order to ensure its recommendation 
was in his best interests.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems the main reason Acumen recommended Mr D transfer was for flexibility as he could 
take his funds from his pension pot as he saw fit once hed reached age 55. But, having 
considered the evidence, I dont think Mr D needed to transfer his ATC benefits to a personal 
pension in order to have flexibility in retirement.
Acumen said that by transferring to a personal pension Mr D could retire at age 58 and 
expect his funds to last him long beyond his life expectancy. In its cashflow model it 
assumed that Mr D would take TFC in three lumps sums of £20,000 at age 55, £25,000 at 
60 and another £25,000 at 65. Its not clear why Acumen chose those three ages or those 
amounts for Mr D to take TFC. I note Mr D said he might need funds to pay for his 
daughters weddings, at some point in the future, although he didnt know when that was 
likely to be. So it appears that Acumen has picked three dates somewhat arbitrarily to show 
that Mr D would be able to take lump sums from his pension funds which he couldnt take 
from his ATC scheme.
Its true that Mr D couldnt take his ATC scheme benefits in the same flexible manner as 
from a personal pension. Its likely that Mr D could have chosen to take TFC and a reduced 
annual pension from his ATC scheme, although he would have had to take those benefits at the same time. But its notable that Acumens report doesn't refer to the possibility of Mr D 
taking TFC from his ATC scheme at all. So it doesn't appear that it brought this possibility to 
Mr Ds attention. 
Also, Mr D could have chosen to take his ATC scheme benefits earlier than the schemes 
normal retirement age of 65, although those would have been at a reduced rate. But, 
Acumens advice didnt ever set out exactly how much that reduction would be or provide 
any analysis of how that compared with his income if he transferred to a personal pension. 
However, in any event, Im not persuaded that Mr D had any concrete need to take TFC and 
retire early, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To my mind this seems more of a 
nice to have rather than a genuine objective.
Further, Acumens arguments about flexible access to income ignores the funds that Mr D 
would have from other sources. At the time that Acumen gave its advice Mr D had two 
personal pension plans worth in the region of £106,000. And if those had modest net growth 
at 2% a year (the regulator's lowest projection rate at that time), then those would have been 
worth around £124,200 in total by the time Mr D reached age 58.
In addition Mr D and his employer were contributing a sum to a money purchase pension 
scheme. There are contradictory figures on file about the actual level of the contributions. 
Acumen has recorded that Mr D contributed 8% of his salary and his employer 10%, which 
would be a total of 18%. But its also recorded that the contribution level was 16%. Mr Ds 
evidence to us was that the total contributions were 17%. But, assuming contributions at 
their lowest rate of 16%, and also assuming that those contributions didnt ever change or 
increase, then  given a net growth rate of 2%  the fund could be worth around £51,900 by 
the time Mr D reached 58. So, Mr Ds three personal pension funds combined could have 
provided a fund of over £176,000 by the time Mr D reached 58 years of age. 
In other words, at 58 Mr D could have taken an income of £1,500 a month  £18,000 a year 
 for the next seven years from his three personal pensions and still have had £50,000 left 
over to contribute towards his daughters weddings - should he need to. And that would be 
without considering Mr Ds wifes income, his savings or any income from his BSPS scheme. 
And taking income from other sources would have allowed him to leave his ATC funds 
untouched. That way the schemes early retirement factors wouldnt have come into play. 
Alternatively, Mr D could have accessed his ATC funds at some time before he turned 65 
and in that instance the ATCs schemes early retirement factors would have less impact on 
his guaranteed income at the time he decided to take it. So I don't think Mr Ds only solution 
for retiring early from his current job was to transfer his funds away from his DB pension.
Further, I've noted that, Mr D told Acumen that while he would like to retire at age 58, that 
may change in the future. I can understand why Mr D would want to retire early. I think 
thats something most people would like to do if given that option. But, for the majority, early 
retirement means a significant drop in income. And that would dramatically reduce most 
individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. So, when faced with that prospect at an 
early retirement age, most people choose not to retire. Instead they opt to continue working 
to support their current and future lifestyle options. And that seems to be a more likely 
prospect for Mr D. But theres no evidence that Acumen seriously challenged Mr Ds wish of 
early retirement at age 58. So I dont think Acumen met its obligations to challenge his 
objectives in light of what he would be giving up.
In addition Mr D was still more than eight years away from 58. So he had no need to make 
an urgent decision to transfer out of his ATC scheme. And, if he still felt that he wanted to 
retire when he reached 58, and thought the income from the ATC scheme wasnt enough for 
his needs at that time, he could have considered transferring his ATC benefits then. But that wasnt a decision he needed to make when he was still only 49 years old. But it doesn't 
appear that Acumen put that option to him.
It follows that I dont think Mr D had any need to transfer from his ATC scheme at the time of 
Acumens advice. So I dont think Acumens advice that he should do so in order to have 
flexible access to his funds was in his best interests. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr D. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his ATC scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. But in 
transferring out of his DB scheme Mr D was essentially giving up a guaranteed, index linked, 
increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump sum for his wife and family that 
they may not need for many years to come. And by that time, the fund could have been 
depleted by Mr Ds withdrawals from it in the meantime.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the ATC scheme were underplayed. Mr D 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the ATC scheme would have been 
useful to his wife if Mr D died before her. And I dont think Acumen made the value of these 
benefits clear enough to Mr D. They were guaranteed and escalated. So they weren't 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. 
Acumen said Mr Ds pension fund would be depleted by age 116 if he retired at 58. So Mr D 
might have thought that guaranteed a significant lump sum for his wife and family on his 
death. But that was based on a consistent investment return of 5% each year. And as I've 
indicated above, if the fund grew by less than that sum, or suffered losses, then there would 
be a smaller sum available as a death benefit.
Further, the fund would reduce as Mr D drew down money from it. And if Mr D drew down 
heavily from it in the early years of his retirement, then those deductions would reduce the 
lump sum benefit available in the event of his death. And the fund would continue to deplete 
unless left untouched. 
If Mr D genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on investment 
returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Acumen could have 
explored life insurance with him. Mr D already had a significant death in service benefit 
through his employer. Its also notable that his home was mortgage free and would in itself 
provide a legacy to his family. But if he wanted an extra sum to cover his retirement years, 
that wasnt tied into his property then he could have taken extra cover out on a whole of life 
basis. But it doesn't appear that Acumen discussed this with him. And to my mind, the fact 
that life insurance wasnt explored further suggests to me that greater death benefits wasnt 
a genuine objective for Mr D, instead, it was simply a consequence of transferring his 
pension.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D.The CL fund
The papers Acumen has provided dont show any analysis or rationale for why Mr D should 
transfer funds from CL to P. Indeed theres nothing explicit within Acumens suitability report 
to show that it actually recommended that Mr D should transfer the funds from CL to P. But, 
when P gave Mr D a product illustration in January 2018 that showed the funds being 
transferred from CL to P. It also showed that Mr D would have to pay 1.5% of that fund, 
almost £500, to Acumen as part of its initial adviser charges. And I can't see any reason 
why Mr D would pay Acumen a fee for arranging that transfer unless Acumen had 
recommended he make the transfer. It follows that I'm satisfied that Acumen did recommend 
that action to him, although it hasn't actually documented making the recommendation. 
Its also worth noting that Acumen asked Mr D to sign forms to make pension transfers, on 
8 January 2018, the day before it sent him its suitability report setting out the reasons for its 
recommendation. So I think its more likely than not that Acumen recommended Mr D 
transfer his funds from CL to P when it spoke with him, but then overlooked including the 
recommendation within its suitability report, which focused heavily on the BSPS transfer. 
Given the lack of any written analysis or advice as to why Acumen recommended 
transferring funds from CL to P I can only speculate as to why Acumen made that 
recommendation. And I assume that was because it said Mr D would enjoy greater growth 
on his investments with P than with CL. But, if that was the case, its provided no evidence to 
support that point of view. However, the only reasons given in its suitability report for Mr D to 
transfer his other pensions was because he could access his funds flexibly and because 
those funds could be used in full as death benefits. But I think its likely Mr D would have had 
the same flexibility of access and death benefits to the funds with CL as he had with P. So 
those weren't legitimate reasons for transferring funds away from CL, as he wouldnt be in a 
better position by doing so. 
Further in 2009 the regulator published a report and checklist for moving funds from one 
pension to another  known as pension switching  that is still applicable. That checklist 
identified four main areas where consumers had lost out when moving a personal pension 
from one scheme to another. One such area applicable to Mr Ds complaint is where the 
advice is to switch a pension to another product that is more expensive than the existing 
one.
The information that CL provided concerning the status and value of Mr Ds CL pension prior 
to the transfer showed that his funds weren't being reduced by fees while in CL. If any fees 
were payable theyre not shown on the papers on Acumen's file. But, by transferring those 
funds to P Mr D would not only have to pay an initial adviser fee of 1.5% of the fund value, 
hed also have to pay an ongoing fee of 0.5% each year to Acumen for advice and product 
charges of 1.18% to Ps provider. But theres no evidence that Acumen made it clear to Mr D 
the extra fees hed have to pay by transferring his funds from CL to P. And given that those 
werent fees he would have to pay by leaving his funds invested in CL, I dont think the 
advice to transfer those funds was in his best interests. So I've set out below what Acumen 
needs to do to try and return Mr D, as near as possible, to the position he would otherwise 
have been in.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Acumen to put Mr D, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would have most 
likely remained in both his ATC scheme and his personal pension with CL, if Acumen had 
given suitable advice.What should Acumen do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Acumen must determine the combined fair value of his 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual 
value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from P in respect of the sums transferred from CL 
and the ATC, at the date of the calculation.
fair value  step one
If Acumen had given Mr D suitable advice, I think he would have remained in the ATC 
scheme. Acumen must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr D lost as a result of 
transferring out of the ATC scheme.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document -
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. But, its review has identified some areas where it considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
The FCA published a policy statement on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules 
and guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCAs said it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to their 
customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes take 
effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. 
Mr D said he would like his complaint to be settled in line with new guidance/rules. So, 
I consider its fair that Acumen calculates Mr Ds redress in line with new guidance and rules 
when they come into effect. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Acumen to put Mr D, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the ATC scheme. 
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr D.Acumen must calculate the value of the benefits Mr D lost as a result of transferring out of 
his ATC scheme in line with the updated methodology as soon as any new rules and/or 
guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate the value now in line with FG17/9). 
For clarity, while Mr D said he wanted ideally to retire at age 58, hes told us that he has no 
plans to retire at present. So, compensation should be based on him taking benefits at the 
schemes normal retirement age of 65. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly once any new 
guidance/rules come into effect.
fair value  step two
Acumen must compare the value of Mr Ds CLs personal pension fund which was 
transferred to P with that of the notional value from CL to determine the fair value of Mr Ds 
personal pension if Acumen had given suitable advice. I consider that there was no reason 
for Mr D to have moved his funds from CL. 
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest 
The value of 
CL 
transferred 
to P Surrendered Notional
value from
CLs 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 90 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr D's investment had it remained with CL until the end date. Acumen 
should request that the previous provider calculate this value. If the previous provider is 
unable to calculate a notional value, Acumen will need to determine a fair value for Mr D's 
investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds. 
The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, 
which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr D within 90 days of any changes 
to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Acumen has received 
notification of Mr Ds acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Acumen to pay Mr D.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr D's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr D into that position. It does not mean that Mr D 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr D could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
Acumen should provide Mr D with a breakdown of its redress calculation in a clear and 
simple to follow format.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above. If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen 
Independent Financial Planning Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman