DRN-4375434
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly turned down his claim made 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) about something bought using his Lloyds 
credit card.
What happened
In March 2017, Mr L, alongside another, purchased holiday club membership from a 
timeshare supplier (the Supplier). This cost £8,326 and was paid by Mr L using his Lloyds 
credit card.1 But this credit card payment wasnt made directly to the Supplier, rather it went 
to a different business, FNTC.
In August 2021, using a professional representative (PR), Mr L made a claim to Lloyds 
under ss.75 and 140A CCA. In short, PR said the Supplier made misrepresentations at the 
time of the sale that, under s.75 CCA, Lloyds was jointly responsible to answer. PR also said 
there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship arising out of the sale that, under s.140A 
CCA, Lloyds were also responsible to answer. This was due to both the problems Mr L said 
there were with membership but also because the membership didnt set out timeshare 
rights in a specific property, meaning the membership breached an EU Directive. It also 
pointed to a Spanish court case that it said rendered the membership null and void. 
PR didnt receive a response to the claim and so, in October 2021, referred a complaint to 
our service that Lloyds hadnt properly considered the claim. After it did so, Lloyds 
responded to apologise for the time taken to investigate Mr Ls claim and offered £100 for 
the delays, but it didnt give an answer to the claim.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think Lloyds needed to do 
anything further. She thought the claims made under the CCA werent ones that Lloyds 
needed to consider as the payment made using the card didnt go to the Supplier directly, 
rather it went to FNTC. That meant, following the judgment in Steiner v. National 
Westminster Bank plc [2022] EWHC 2519 (KB) (Steiner), there werent the right 
arrangements in place for Lloyds to have to consider allegations about the Suppliers 
misconduct. She also said that she didnt think Spanish law applied to the timeshare, so she 
didnt think that meant the credit card agreement wasnt enforceable.
PR responded to say it disagreed with our investigator. It argued that Mr L wasnt aware at 
the time of sale that payment was going to be taken by a third party and that the Supplier 
hadnt explained this meant he would lose his protection under the CCA. Mr L didnt give the 
Supplier permission to take payment in this way. So Mr L asked for the matter to be looked 
at again by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
1 Mr L bought membership alongside his wife, but as the card used was in his name alone, only he is 
able to make this complaint. 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCA Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
PR brought a claim on Mr Ls behalf under ss.75 and 140A CCA. I think it is helpful to set out 
the relevant legal provisions.
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by 
the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
s.140A CCA states:
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
Section 140C CCA says that the reference in s.140A CCA to a related agreement include a 
linked transaction in relation to the main agreement, which is defined in s.19 CCA as:
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with any 
other person (the other party), except one for the provision of security, is a linked 
transaction in relation to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the principal 
agreement) of which it does not form part if -

(b) the principal agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the 
transaction is financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreement
The upshot of this is that there needs to be a D-C-S agreement in place for the lender (here 
Lloyds) to be liable to the borrower (here Mr L) for the misrepresentations of the supplier 
(here the Supplier) under s.75 CCA. But, on the face of it, there were no such arrangements 
in place at the relevant times as the Supplier wasnt paid directly using the credit card, rather 
the payments were taken by FNTC.
There are ways in which there can be a D-C-S agreement in place, even if the supplier isnt 
paid directly using a credit card. Our investigator pointed to the judgment in Steiner, in which 
it was considered whether there was a D-C-S agreement in circumstances where FNTC took 
payment on a credit card in relation to the purchase of timeshare membership from a 
different timeshare supplier. The court considered the arrangements between the parties 
and concluded that, as the payment to that supplier was made outside of the credit card 
network, in that instance there wasnt a D-C-S agreement in place.
The circumstances of Mr Ls case are very similar. Here, FNTC, acting as trustee, took 
payment on behalf of a timeshare supplier in the same way. So, based on the judgment in 
Steiner, I think a court would come to a similar conclusion and say that there was no D-C-S 
agreement in place as any payment made to the Supplier was outside of the card network 
and, in turn, no valid s.75 CCA claim.
Ive also thought about the claim made under s.140A CCA and whether a Court would 
conclude the relationship was unfair. However, a Court could only consider how the 
agreements between Mr L and the Supplier affected the fairness of the debtor-creditor 
relationship if there was a valid D-C-S agreement in place. And, as already explained, I dont 
think such an arrangement was in place, nor has Mr L suggested there was an unfair 
relationship for any other reason.
It follows that I dont think the CCA applies to the claims PR advanced on Mr Ls behalf.
Ive also considered what PR said about Mr L not knowing that the payment went to FNTC or 
not consenting to the payment being taken in that way. Ive seen the three page purchase 
agreement signed by Mr L. On the first page it says the payment of £8,326 was due on the 
13 April 2017 and it went on to say:
By signing this agreement, you are agreeing to pay the purchase price above on the 
due date. All payments must be made in favour of FNTC-Diamond Resorts
Ive also seen that the credit card receipt provided by Mr L stated that payment was made, 
but also says Customer not present. I think its clear that Mr L agreed to make payment 
using his credit card and gave permission for payment to be taken the following month. I 
think Mr L was told the payment would be taken by FNTC, albeit that I accept he didnt know 
what this meant in terms of this rights under the CCA. But the issue here isnt about Mr Ls knowledge, rather its whether the technical legal arrangements are in place for Mr L to be 
able to make the claims he has done under the CCA. And, following the judgment in Steiner, 
I dont think the right arrangements were in place.
Under the rules set out above, I must take into account the law, but come to my own 
determination of what is fair and reasonable in any given complaint. Here, I dont think it 
would be fair to make Lloyds responsible for the Suppliers alleged failures when the law 
doesnt impose such a liability  I cant see that Lloyds and the Supplier were connected in 
any way nor is there any other reason to say Lloyds should be responsible for the Suppliers 
alleged failings.
Finally, Ive considered PRs argument that the credit agreement was null and void or 
unenforceable due to breaches of EU law. I dont think this is right for several reasons. First, 
the credit agreement in question was for a credit card and I dont think that agreement be set 
aside just because an agreement that may have been funded by the card could be 
rescinded. Secondly, PR has referred to a Spanish judgment and Spanish law that it says 
demonstrate how the EU Regulation should be interpreted. But Mr Ls timeshare agreement 
states that it is governed by English law, so I fail to see how a Spanish judgment is of 
assistance here. Especially as PR hasnt pointed to how Mr Ls timeshare agreement 
breached the relevant English law (the 2010 Timeshare Regulations), nor can I see how the 
relevant English laws could be breached.
It follows that I dont think Lloyds needs to answer the claims made.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman