DRN-4485647
The complaint
Miss S complains through a representative that My Finance Club Limited (MFC) gave her
loans without carrying sufficient affordability checks.
What happened
A summary of Miss Ss borrowing can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment date contracted 
term (days)
1 £400.00 31/01/2021 07/02/2021 30
2 £200.00 28/02/2021 02/03/2021 30
3 £100.00 09/04/2021 23/04/2021 14
4 £150.00 29/04/2021 12/05/2021 28
5 £100.00 14/05/2021 25/05/2021 14
Gap in lending 
6 £100.00 21/02/2022 25/02/2022 14
7 £100.00 28/02/2022 08/03/2022 28
8 £100.00 16/04/2022 26/04/2022 30
9 £100.00 07/06/2022 23/06/2022 20
10 £100.00 30/06/2022 25/07/2022 25
Following Miss Ss complaint MFC wrote to her representative to explain why it wasnt going
to uphold it  because it had had carried out proportionate checks. Unhappy with this 
response Miss Ss representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded that taking account of the gap in
lending she didnt consider MFC had done anything wrong when it approved loans 1  4 and
loans 6  9. The investigator also thought that for loans 5 and 10 MFC ought to have carried
out more checks into Miss Ss situation, but she didnt have any evidence to show what MFC
may have seen had it made better checks. This led to the investigator concluding that these
loans also couldnt be upheld either.
Miss Ss representative didnt agree with the outcome, and it provided screen shots from
when loan 1 was advanced which it says shows Miss Ss dependency on payday loans. Her
representative also said in the three months before loan 1, Miss S had taken seven payday 
loans and two high-cost credit loans.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me and I issued a provisional 
decision on 23 November 2023 outlining why I had sufficient evidence from another 
complaint referred here by Miss Ss representative to say loans 5 and 10 ought to not have 
been granted. 
Both parties were given an opportunity to provide any further submissions as soon as 
possible, but in any event, no later than 7 December 2023. 
MFC responded, to say it agreed with the findings in the provisional decision and it outlined 
the refund due to Miss S. The investigator then put this offer to Miss Ss representative who 
also accepted it. 
Although the deadline is today, in the interest of resolving this case quickly, Im satisfied it is 
now appropriate to proceed to issue the final decision. 
Below in smaller font is a copy of the provisional findings and these form part of this final 
decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MFC had to assess the lending to check if Miss S could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to the 
circumstances. MFCs checks could have taken into account a number of different things, such as 
how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ss income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MFC should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include:
Miss S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss S. The adjudicator didnt think this
applied to Miss Ss complaint, and I agree.
MFC was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss S was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ss complaint.
Looking at the total lending chain, there is a significant break in borrowing between when
Miss S repaid loan 5 and when she returned for loan 6 of around nine months. This break is
important because in my view it was large enough for MFC to have reasonably concluded
that it could treat her applications afresh. What this means, is that while loan 6 was her sixth
loan overall, it in effect became loan 1 in a new lending chain and Ive kept this in mind when
thinking what a proportionate check was and what it may have involved.
Loans 1  4Before these loans were granted MFC made enquires with Miss S about her income. For
loan 1 she told MFC she earned £3,150 per month and then for loan 2 £2,400, £2.200 per
month for loan 3 and £2,300 for loan 4. MFC says Miss Ss income was electronically
verified and MFC was given confidence over the accuracy of the information Miss S
provided. It also worth saying here that given the amounts borrowed, I dont yet think it had
reached the point where MFC needed to verify what Miss S was saying.
Miss S was also asked to provide details of her monthly outgoings across a number of
different categories included housing, utilities, food, transport, credit and other. Having
looked at what MFC was told by Miss S it wouldve been satisfied that the loans were
affordable.
Before these loans were advanced MFC also carried out a credit search and it provided the
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although
MFC carried out a credit searches there wasnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone
one to a specific standard. But what MFC couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then
not react to the to the information it received.
The credit results showed the active accounts that Miss S had at the time each loan was
approved, so MFC wouldnt have been aware of recently closed accounts and so wouldnt
have known what loan(s) if any had been closed, or the type of loan closed either.
This means, at loan 1, there werent any signs that Miss S was dependent on payday loans.
The credit check results were fairly similar for all loans in this chain and wouldnt have been
a concern for MFC. It knew Miss S had current accounts, loans and credit cards. All of these
accounts were up to date in each credit search with no recent adverse payment information
recorded. The results wouldnt have prompted MFC to have carried out further checks, and
they didnt indicate Miss S has having financial difficulties.
I have also considered that the loan amounts fluctuated, and Miss S was repaying her loans
early  indeed, loan 2 was repaid so quickly it was almost withdrawn and Miss S was only
charged £3.20 interest.
Having taken all of this into account as well as the fact that these loans were for relatively
small amounts I think that MFCs checks went far enough. And given the rest of the
information gathered also suggested that Miss S could afford to make the payments to loans
1 - 4, I dont think that it was unreasonable for MFC to proceed with these applications.
I accept that Miss Ss representative appeared to be suggesting that her actual
circumstances werent fully reflected in the information MFC obtained at the respective
times. But MFC could only make reasonable decisions based on the information it had
available at the time.
As these were first loans and there wasnt anything to indicate that Miss S might have been
experiencing financial difficulty at the respective times, I was satisfied that MFC
was reasonably entitled to believe that Miss S could afford to make her payments. And this
means Im intending not to uphold the complaint about loans 1 - 4.
Loan 6  9
As Ive said above, there is a significant break in borrowing after Miss S repaid loan 5 and
when she returned for loan 6. This break is large enough for MFC to reasonably treat Miss S
as if she was a new customer.
Before these loans were granted MFC made the same sort of enquires with Miss S as Ive
outlined above for loans 1  4. Her income for these loans has been declared as low as
£2,474 for loan 6 to as high as £3,000 per month for loan 7.
Miss S was also asked to provide details of her living costs for the same categories as the
previous loan chain. Having looked at what Miss S declared, which MFC could rely on shehad sufficient disposable income to afford her loan repayments for each of the loans in this
chain.
Before these loans were advanced MFC also carried out a credit search and it provided the
results it received from the credit reference agency and Ive reviewed each one.
The credit check results were fairly similar for all loans and wouldnt have been a concern for
MFC. It knew the type of accounts that Miss S had but all the active ones had been
managed well and there wasnt any adverse payment information being recorded. As before,
it is of course possible that Miss S had been a regular user of payday loans, but this wasnt
reflected in the information MFC was provided with.
These were the first loans of a new lending chain, and it was reasonable for MFC to have
relied on the information that Miss S provided (along with the results of its own checks) that
showed these modest loans were likely affordable for her. There also wasnt anything else to
suggest that the loans would either be unaffordable for her or unsustainable.
Im therefore intending to not uphold Miss Ss complaint about the approval of loans 6 - 9.
Loans 5 and 10
For both of these loans the adjudicator concluded that perhaps further checks ought to have
been carried out. Ive thought about this, and I do agree with what the adjudicator said.
For loan 5, this was now her fifth loan in a little under five months and it was her second loan
in just over two weeks, with the previous loan being repaid early and then Miss S returning
only 2 days later for a new loan.
Loan 10 was also the fifth loan in that lending chain, and all the loans in that chain were
taken out within four months, indeed, this was Miss Ss second loan in June 2022 and was
taken out a week after her pervious loan had been repaid.
So, although, the loans werent always increasing in value, I do think, the number of loans,
and the quick uptake in borrowing ought to have been of concern for MFC. Like the
adjudicator I agree that further checks needed to have been conducted before it advanced
these loans in order to satisfy itself that Miss S could actually afford the repayments.
MFC couldve gone about doing this a number of ways, it couldve asked to see bank
statements, Miss Ss credit file or any other documentation that MFC felt was reasonable to
obtain.
However, just because I think further checks needed to be carried out that isnt the end of the
matter, for me to be able to uphold Miss Ss complaint about these loans, I would also have
to be satisfied that had MFC carried out further checks it wouldve likely discovered
these loans were unaffordable for her. The adjudicator couldnt uphold these loans because
she said she didnt have enough information.
However, on another complaint that has been considered by the Financial Ombudsman
there are copy bank statements from around the time these two loans were advanced and
so Ive considered those statements.
In the weeks before loan 5 was advanced, Miss S had been advanced over £2,000 of
payday and instalment loans from other lenders. She also had outstanding payday loans that
she was already paying £182 per month for. And of course, on top of this she had the
repayments to loan 4 that needed to be paid. And looking further back, there is evidence that
Miss S was a regular user of payday loans.
Im therefore persuaded that MFC would have seen that Miss S was already in a difficult
financial position at the respective times and also found out why this was the case. Im also
satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown
MFC that Miss Ss existing precarious financial position was because she was strugglingfinancially.
A similar picture would have also been apparent had MFC made further enquires with
Miss S when loan 10 was advanced. Just in the month of June 2022, Miss S had been
advanced four payday / instalment loans owing these lenders £2,488. So, this is further
demonstration, that a year after loan 5 was approved, Miss S was still having to make use of
such lenders, and so I dont think loan 10 was affordable for Miss S either.
So, Im persuaded by what Miss S has said about already being in a difficult financial position
at the respective times and the reasons for this. And as reasonable and proportionate
checks should have extended into finding out more about Miss Ss income and expenditure,
Im satisfied that they would more like than not have shown MFC that it shouldnt have
provided loans 5 or 10 to Miss S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new submissions have been provided and MFC has accepted the findings that were 
made in the provisional decision and Miss Ss representative has also accepted them. I 
therefore see no reason to depart from the findings that I previously made and which can be 
found above. 
I still think MFC shouldve carried out further checks before granting loans 5 and 10 and had 
it carried out further checks it wouldve realised Miss S couldnt afford these loans. 
Ive set out below what MFC needs to do, and what it has already agreed to do, in order to 
put things right for Miss S. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MFC should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not provided loans 5 and 10, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss S may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss S would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MFCs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MFC, shouldnt have provided Miss S with loans 5 and 10.A. MFC should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss S towards 
interest, fees and charges on loans 5 and 10.
B. MFC should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss S 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MFC should pay Miss S the total of A plus B.
D. MFC should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Miss Ss credit file in 
relation to loans 5 and 10.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MFC to deduct tax from this interest. MFC should give
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in the provisional decision, I am upholding Miss Ss 
complaint in part. 
My Finance Club Limited should put things right for Miss S as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman