DRN-3480238
The complaint
Mrs D complains about Haven Insurance Company Limiteds settlement of the claim she 
made on her motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs D had a car insurance policy with Haven and made a claim when her car was stolen. In 
settlement of the claim, Haven paid £16,870 which is the price Mrs D paid for the car. Less 
the policy excess.
Mrs D says she hasnt been able to source a similar car at the price it paid. She says she 
carried out her own research which came back with a market value of £20,000 upwards for 
similar cars. Mrs D also complained that the courtesy car she was given was too small for 
her and her family, and she had to pay to upgrade to a larger car.
Haven says the limit of coverage on Mrs Ds policy was £16,250 which is the maximum sum 
insured, and is outlined in the policy booklet. It says it paid the purchase price of the car as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld, because he didnt think it was fair 
for Haven to rely on the term that limits the coverage of the policy. He didnt think there was 
any evidence it explained to Mrs D the importance of the value she declared for the car. Our 
investigator thought Haven should pay Mrs D the cars market value. He said it should pay 
£3,268.50 plus 8% simple interest per annum in addition to what it had already paid. 
However, he thought the terms of the policy were clear about the type of courtesy car 
provided by the policy. He didnt think Haven was obliged to provide a larger courtesy car. 
Haven didnt accept our investigators opinion. It said Mrs D was asked for the cars value 
when she phoned to change the car on her policy. However, our investigator didnt change 
his mind. He said because of the nature of the term, we would expect the implications to 
have been explained. As it wasnt, he didnt think it was fair for Haven to rely on it.
Haven still didnt accept what our investigator said and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
It says it is the policyholders responsibility to read the policy terms. It thinks the settlement it 
offered would be putting Mrs D back in the position she wouldve been in prior to the loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D accepted our investigators opinion regarding the courtesy car. So, I wont go over it 
again here, instead Ive focused on what remains in dispute. Having done so, I agree with 
the outcome reached by our investigator and for similar reasons.
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. Rather, 
we look at whether the insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable manner in its application of 
the policy terms and in its valuation of the car. 
Under the terms of Mrs Ds policy, Haven will pay the market value of the car at the time of 
loss up to the limit of coverage specified in the policy schedule. In Mrs Ds case thats 
£16,250. 
The policy defines market value as: 
the cost of replacing Your car with one of a similar make, model and specification, taking 
into account the age, mileage and condition of Your car
In order to find Haven fairly relied on the limit of coverage term, I need to be satisfied that it 
highlighted the significance of the term to Mrs D, and the potential ramifications of the value 
she declared for the car. 
When Mrs D bought her car, she phoned to update the details on her policy. Ive listened to 
the phone call Mrs D had with the broker. During the conversation shes asked the purchase 
price of the car and whether that was also its value. However, the broker doesnt explain the 
value she declared is used to set the limit of cover provided by the policy. Ive then looked at 
the documentation Haven provided Mrs D and I dont think it highlighted that the value thats 
noted on the policy schedule is the maximum the policy would pay. 
I accept it is the consumers responsibility to read the terms and conditions of the policy. But 
considering that the term potentially means she is paid less than the cars market value at 
the time of loss, I think Haven could have done more to highlight this limitation to her. As 
such I dont think its fair for Haven to rely on this term to pay Mrs D a figure thats below her 
cars market value.
Haven thinks its offer to pay Mrs D her cars purchase price of £16,870 is fair because its 
higher than the policy limit stated in Mrs Ds policy schedule. But I dont agree. With the 
current market conditions, weve found the price of some used cars has increased, and in 
some cases this increase has been quite significant. Based on the evidence available, I find 
that the value of Mrs Ds car has increased since she first purchased it. I think it would be 
challenging for her to find a replacement car of similar make, age, and mileage at the same 
price she initially bought hers. As such, I think its unreasonable under these circumstances 
to pay Mrs D what she originally paid for the car. 
Ultimately Haven need to pay the cost of replacing Mrs Ds car with a similar one, and I dont 
think she would have been able to at the price it paid. I think a fairer way to settle the claim 
would be to pay the cars market value at the time of the loss.
Its common practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so, as the valuation the guides 
give are based on national research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar age 
and mileage for sale at the time of loss. Our investigator carried out their own searches 
using three guides. These produced values of £20,500, £19,840, and £20,077. We usually 
find a fair valuation would fall within the range of figures produced by the guides. Havens 
settlement falls below the range of values Ive seen, so I dont think its figure of £16,870 is 
reasonable. 
Putting things right
I think a fair way to settle this claim is to take an average of the three guides and pay Mrs D 
this figure, less the excess stated in Mrs Ds policy documentation. Haven should therefore 
pay Mrs D the difference between this figure and what its already paid. It should also pay 8% simple interest per annum on the difference from when it initially paid Mrs D, to the date 
the additional payment is made.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I uphold this complaint and I require Haven Insurance Company 
Limited to: 
Increase the settlement value to £20,139 less the policy excess. It should pay Mrs D 
the difference between this figure and what its already paid her. 
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the difference from the date it initially made 
payment to the date the additional payment is made.
If Haven Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken off. It should 
also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman