DRN-2854838
The complaint
Mr W complains actions taken by Indigo Michael Limited, trading as SafetyNet Credit (SNC), 
in relation to a loan debt were wrong. 
What happened
Mr W was approved for one of Indigo Michaels credit facilities in August 2015. Mr W 
describes how he missed payments to SNC around October to November 2015. 
Mr W says that SNC should have added a default to the account which would have shown 
on his credit file in November 2015, as that was the date that he says he entered a debt 
management plan (DMP) administered through a well-known debt assistance charity. Mr W 
explains 
this lender did not mark a default on my file they only marked down 3 missed 
payments for the last 3 months in 2015 and then have not supplied any information to 
the Credit Agencies until May 2020
Mr Ws rationale is that he is rebuilding his credit profile and a default registered late 2015 or 
early 2016 would mean it was more than six years old by now and so would have led to it 
dropping off his credit file. Without that being done Mr Ws credit score has gone down and 
he says that it will continue to decline. 
SNCs final response to Mr Ws complaint about this issue raised in July 2020 was sent to 
him and that was dated 11 August 2020. SNC said that it did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. It 
said that it has choices as to how credit accounts are reported to the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs). SNC says that in-line with relevant guidelines about the reporting of debt, 
and as Mr W had entered a DMP on 26 January 2016, then it did not consider there was a 
total breakdown in the relationship between it and Mr W at that time and so a default would 
not have been the right thing to do. 
It explained that it considered a relationship to have broken down after an arrangement to 
pay had failed and no alternative arrangement is set up. In those circumstances it would 
likely be the right route to register a default against a customers account. In Mr Ws 
circumstances it did not consider this to have applied in 2015/2016. It concluded in its final 
response: 
 On this basis we do not believe that your account has been mis-handled. Therefore, 
no form on [sic] redress is warranted and no further action will be taken.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that SNC had not acted unfairly 
by not recording a default when the repayment difficulties started in 2015. He did not think 
that SNC needed to do anything to put things right.
Mr W disagreed and explained that he thinks that his missed payments and that he had 
entered the DMP in 2015/2016, should have led to a default being registered then. 
Mr W referred to another complaint raised with SNC earlier this year (2021), after he had 
brought this complaint to the Service. That second complaint was about the same account 
but related to an issue arising from it in 2020. SNC has confirmed that this was the subject of 
a different FRL and it seems that Mr Ws second complaint about this account will be dealt 
with separately.
This complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. I make it clear that 
this decision relates to the first complaint only.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The guidelines used by the industry are the Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, 
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies, published by the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) updated in July 2016. The Foreword to that gives an overview 
of the rationale behind the document. A full version can be read on the ICO website. 
 we thought it best for this principles document to become the main source of 
advice for the public on the reporting of arrears, arrangements and defaults with the 
credit reference agencies (CRAs). 
The principles in this document have been drawn up by the credit industry in 
collaboration with the ICO. The ICO will continue to work with the industry to ensure 
that these principles remain up to date and that the privacy rights of individuals are 
respected.
Having read all the details and SNCs explanation in its FRL, and having reviewed the ICO 
Principles and guidance, then I think it would not have been the right thing to do to enter a 
default against Mr Ws SNC account in or around November 2015. 
SNC was under no obligation to do that and Mr Ws use of the term should in his complaint 
and follow-up emails are incorrect. And when the DMP arrangement was put in place, and 
must have been agreed by SNC, then any default registered before that by SNC would likely 
have been removed in light of there being a satisfactory payment arrangement in place from 
January 2016. 
Mr W has explained that his rationale for making the complaint is that he feels it would be 
better for him for a default to have been entered in late 2015/2016 so that by now hed be in 
a better position as the default would have dropped off his record. 
I understand why Mr W may think that, but that does not lead me to decide that back-dating 
the default to 2015/2016 now is justified or the correct approach. I dont consider that SNC 
did anything wrong in 2015/2016. 
I note that in late 2015 and early 2016 Mr W would have been receiving help, assistance and 
most likely advice from the debt assistance charity he has told us about, which helped him 
set up his DMP. And so, I do not think that Mr W was devoid of assistance at that time and 
I think that if he had had any queries he could have asked that charitable body. 
I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman