DRN-3164635
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the service they received from Countrywide Principal 
Services Limited when applying for a mortgage to buy a property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C found a property they wanted to buy and applied for a mortgage through 
Countrywide, which is a mortgage broker. They were given an agreement in principle for a 
lender that Ill refer to as H on 10 March 2020. Mrs C was due to start a new job on 1 April 
and she was asked to provide a copy of her first payslip from her new employer as soon as 
she received it.
Due to Covid, the original adviser was unavailable and so matters were passed to one of 
their colleagues on 27 March.
Mrs C received her first payslip on 28 April and emailed it to Countrywide the same day.
Over the next month or so Mr and Mrs C made contact with Countrywide but didnt hear 
anything back  for instance, they chased up when a valuation could be undertaken.
On 2 June Mrs C chased matters up again and reiterated the completion deadline was 
24 July. Countrywide responded to say it was chasing H and would update them by 4 June.
As they didnt hear anything back, Mrs C chased it up again on 5 June and was told theyd 
have an update by 9 June.
On 9 June Countrywide sent an email to Mr and Mrs C requesting a copy of Mrs Cs first 
payslip, her latest P60 and for details of their solicitor.
Mrs C replied to say that information had been sent several weeks before and forwarded a 
copy of the earlier email.
On 11 June Countrywide told Mr and Mrs C that H had cancelled the application as it hadnt 
received the paperwork in time. Mr and Mrs C were told that a full application would need to 
be resubmitted and that H might not be able to complete the mortgage by 24 July. 
Countrywide recommended Mr and Mrs C instead apply to a different lender.
They agreed to do so and the application completed. Unfortunately, the replacement 
mortgage was on a higher interest rate which would cost £322.80 more over the fixed rate 
period.
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr and Mrs C complained to Countrywide. Countrywide 
upheld the complaint and paid them £322.80 compensation (which was made up of a refund 
of the £250 arrangement fee, plus an additional amount to top that up to the extra interest Mr 
and Mrs C will incur).
Our investigator looked at things and she felt that the offer of £322.80 was fair as that 
covered the loss Mr and Mrs C had incurred by what happened, but she felt Countrywide 
should also pay £250 compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset caused to Mr and 
Mrs H.
Countrywide didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Countrywide got things wrong here, its admitted that already. So all 
Im deciding is on the level of redress.
In response to our investigator Countrywide said:
 However, we do not feel that it is reasonable to pay the customer anything further than 
the £322.80 that we have already paid them. Especially as this is what the customer what 
as per their original complaint (attached for your ease of reference, as well as 
summarised below):
Over the fixed term, this is an additional £322.80 we have to pay. 
While we understand there is mitigation with the Covid situation, we would like to be 
put back into the position we should have been in had Countrywide sent our 
documents to HSBC on time. We should not be penalised by paying higher rates for 
Countrywides error. Further, we should not have been caused the stress and 
inconvenience of trying to sort this out and keep chasing for updates.
NB: Further to this, as you will see from the attached, the customer was well aware that 
the Coronavirus was causing issues, and the fact that their application was completed 
within 3 months in those circumstances only reinforces our point that the customer did not 
suffer trouble and upset as they are now trying to claim with you.
Therefore, as we do not agree with your view in particular to the point of giving an 
additional £250.00 for D and I, we ask that it is escalated to an Ombudsman.
It isnt clear what point Countrywide is trying to make about Mr and Mrs Cs original 
complaint. Mr and Mrs C said they shouldnt be penalised by paying a higher rate (which 
Countrywide has offered to redress with the £322.80) and that they shouldnt have been 
caused the stress and inconvenience of chasing for updates and trying to sort this out (which 
Countrywide hasnt redressed).
Just because Mr and Mrs C said they understood there was mitigation with Covid doesnt 
mean they shouldnt receive any compensation for the stress and inconvenience that was 
caused to them.
Countrywide also said the mortgage completed within three months (which it didnt, it was 
over three months but that is neither here nor there) but that isnt relevant to this specific 
complaint. Mr and Mrs C arent complaining about the time it took, theyre complaining about 
the poor service they received and the fact, late in the process, they had the inconvenience 
and worry of having to start an application afresh with a new lender due to that poor service.Whilst it was a very unusual time, with people needing to work remotely without warning, 
Covid cant be blamed for the fact it seems Countrywide didnt pass on all the information 
Mr and Mrs H provided to it on 28 April  or if it did, why it then couldnt prove that, and why 
it didnt follow things up much sooner. Mr and Mrs H were actively chasing this throughout.
Countrywide has offered to pay Mr and Mrs C £322.80 to cover the additional amount theyll 
be paying out due to its poor service. But I agree with our investigator that doesnt go far 
enough. Mr and Mrs C had a completion deadline and were actively chasing this application 
up with Countrywide. They had to apply for a new mortgage late on in the process, at a point 
where they should have had a mortgage offer already in place and been able to relax and 
wait for completion. Instead they had the inconvenience of needing to sign a new set of 
paperwork for the new lender, and the worry of whether the new lender would approve the 
mortgage and be able to issue the mortgage offer in time. Just covering their actual financial 
loss doesnt take any of that into account. Having considered everything I agree with our 
investigator that Countrywide should pay an additional £250 compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Countrywide Principal Services Limited to pay Mr and Mrs 
C a total of £572.80 (less any amounts already paid in compensation, if any).
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman