DRN-1641168
 
The complaint
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1991. 
Halifaxs records show that Mrs W applied for the mortgage at one of its branches.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs W says she didnt know she had PPI with the mortgage, and she doesnt 
remember it being discussed. She says she wouldnt have agreed to it, as she 
thought it was unnecessary.
 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide a copy of Mrs Ws mortgage or PPI applications. I 
dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given the time thats passed since the 
sale took place. But it means theres little evidence about how PPI was presented to 
Mrs W. And I cant fairly decide, based on the limited evidence that I have, that 
Halifax didnt give Mrs W a fair choice in taking out PPI. From what weve seen of the 
way Halifax sold PPI with mortgages around the time, I think Mrs W would have 
asked whether she wanted to take PPI, and would have been asked to complete a 
separate application for it if she did. So on balance, I think its more likely than not 
that the PPI was set up because she decided she wanted the cover.
 Halifax says it would have recommended the policy to Mrs W. This means it had a 
responsibility to check that the policy was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable, based on what Mrs Ws told us about her circumstances at the time.
 
I acknowledge that Mrs W has told us shed have been entitled to sick pay from her 
employer at the time. Halifax has only been able to provide a policy document from 
around two years after Mrs W took out the PPI. But based on that, and what weve 
seen of other policies sold around the time, I think its likely that if Mrs W had made a 
successful claim on the policy, it would have paid the monthly benefit for up to 24 
months per successful claim for accident or sickness. Thats longer than Mrs W has 
told us shed have been entitled to sick pay for. And it would have paid out for up to 
12 months per successful claim for unemployment. Whats more, the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any payments Mrs W received from her employer. So she 
could have used those to meet other expenses.
 
Ive taken into account that Mrs W has told us she had rental income from a property 
that she owned outright. But her income would still have been significantly reduced if 
shed been off sick for an extended period, once her sick pay entitlement finished. 
And she could have used her rental income to pay for other day-to-day expenses.
 
Ive borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant financial commitment, secured 
on Mrs Ws property, and the consequences of not keeping up with her monthly 
mortgage payments could have been serious. Taking everything into account, I think 
the PPI could have been useful for Mrs W. 
 
I acknowledge that Mrs Ws commented that interest rates were high at the time, and 
that she wouldnt have wanted to make her monthly payments even higher. And I 
accept that it may be that Halifax could have explained the cost of the policy better 
than it did. But Ive explained that Im satisfied, on balance, that Mrs W chose to take 
out the PPI. So I think she was interested in the cover, even if shes forgotten this 
now, so many years after the event. The policy was competitively priced, and it 
appears to have been affordable for Mrs W. So even if Halifax had given her better 
information about the cost of the policy, I think Mrs W would still have bought it. And 
since she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time without 
further cost if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the 
cover.
 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover (for 
example, provisions about unusual working arrangements or existing medical 
conditions). But based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, its 
unlikely Mrs W would have been affected by any of these.
 
Taking everything into account Im not satisfied that better information about the 
policy would have put Mrs W off taking it out. So I dont think shes lost out as a result 
of anything Halifax may have done wrong.
 Ive taken account of all Mrs Ws comments, including what shes said about the monthly PPI 
premiums having been hidden in her monthly mortgage payments, and not having shown 
separately on her annual mortgage statements.
But based on what we know of the way these policies were set up at the time, Im satisfied, 
on balance, that Mrs W would have had to set up a separate monthly payment for the PPI. 
So the monthly premiums would have been taken separately from her bank account. And I 
wouldnt have expected them to appear on her annual mortgage statements, either 
separately or as part of the monthly payments.
I can understand that it will be frustrating to Mrs W that Im having to reach my decision 
without sight of the paperwork she completed at the time of sale. But based on the evidence 
I have, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman