DRN-4213558
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Plan Group Limited mis-sold him a Pedal Cover branded bicycle 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ill summarise the key points:
Mr W took out a bicycle insurance policy with Pedal Cover in 2017. Ill refer to the 
underwriter at that time as A. The policy renewed annually.
Prior to the 2021 renewal, Pedal Cover got in touch with Mr W. It said the underwriter 
had changed. Ill refer to the new underwriter as B. Mr W renewed the policy.
Mr W needed to make a claim after a bicycle and clothing were damaged. He got in 
touch with Bs claim handler and, whilst going through the claim process, discovered 
the basis of Bs cover wasnt new for old as As had been. It was like for like.
Mr W made a complaint to B about the handling of the claim. Thats been considered 
separately. He also made a complaint to Pedal Cover about the way it sold the policy 
to him at the 2021 renewal. He was unhappy the basis of cover had been changed 
and said he hadnt been made aware of it. He also noted that, unlike A, B required 
him to state the value of the bicycles. He didnt think the section about cycle value in 
the policy wording was clear.
Pedal Cover said it had been clear prior to the 2021 renewal that the underwriter had 
changed, Mr W now needed to provide values for the bicycles, the sale wasnt 
advised and he should check the policy documents to ensure they met his needs.
Our investigator thought Pedal Cover had acted fairly. He said it had provided 
relevant information and been clear with Mr W about what he could expect from the 
policy  in line with its obligations for a non-advised sale.
Mr W disagreed. He said he spoke to Pedal Cover prior to the renewal to provide the 
bicycle values. But he hadnt been told about the change to the basis of cover from 
new for old to like for like. He said he would have moved his policy elsewhere if hed 
known about the change.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy wording applicable to Mr Ws claim is the responsibility of B. So I cant 
consider in this complaint against Pedal Cover whether the policy section about 
cycle value was clear.
Pedal Cover was responsible for ensuring Mr W understood what information he 
needed to provide at the 2021 renewal  including values for the bicycles. These 
values were effectively a sum insured  the maximum amount Mr W could claim for 
each bicycle. Pedal Cover did that and Mr W provided values. I understand those 
values arent in question and didnt negatively impact the claim settlement. So Im 
satisfied Pedal Cover acted fairly in relation to the bicycle values.
The crux of this complaint is the change of the basis of cover  like for like instead of 
new for old  so thats what Ill focus on.
The renewal in 2021 was a non-advised sale. That means Pedal Cover had a duty to 
provide Mr W with information that was clear, fair and not misleading. That includes 
appropriately highlighting any policy terms or changes to terms that are significant or 
unusual. Then it was up to him to decide whether the policy met his needs or not.
I consider the basis of cover is a significant term, particularly where it has changed to 
like for like after a number of years as new for old. This difference can have a 
significant impact on the value of a claim and therefore whether the policy is suitable 
for a consumer. So I think it should have been appropriately highlighted.
The 2021 renewal invitation document was clear that the underwriter had changed to 
B and extra time should be taken to check information about the cover before 
renewing the policy. That included checking the policy wording and Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) which is a policy summary document.
The IPID doesnt highlight that the basis of cover is like for like  or that its changed 
from new for old. Nor does the renewal invitation document. The policy wording sets 
out like for like cover, but Im not persuaded this amounts to appropriately 
highlighting a change.
Ive listened to the calls Mr W had with Pedal Cover around the time of the 2021 
renewal. Bicycle values were discussed but the change of basis of cover wasnt.
Overall, Im not satisfied Pedal Cover appropriately highlighted the change of basis of 
cover because it didnt bring it to Mr Ws attention at all.
The question then is what impact this had on Mr W  if it had been highlighted, would 
he have acted differently and would he have been better off as a result?
Mr W says he would have moved to a different insurer had he known about the 
change. Ive looked at the market and its clear there are many insurers offering new 
for old bicycle insurance policies, so Im satisfied Mr W would likely have been able 
to take out a policy of this nature. However, I havent seen any evidence to show 
what kind of cost Mr W would likely have faced at that time. It may have been similar 
to what he paid or it may have been significantly more, which may have impacted his 
decision. So its difficult to know whether he would likely have moved policies or not  
and what the financial impact of doing so would have been.
Ive thought about what would likely have happened during the claim if Mr W had 
moved to a new for old policy. Pedal Cover says As new for old policy had a repair option. Only if a damaged item is beyond economic repair would it provide a new for 
old replacement. I think thats likely to be the case with most policies on the market.
In the separate complaint about the way B handled the claim, it was accepted that 
the damaged bicycle could be repaired. So I think its unlikely Mr W would have 
received a replacement bicycle, on a new for old basis, even if he had a policy where 
the basis of cover was new for old.
The claim also included three items of clothing. I understand agreement was reached 
for the cash settlement of the first two early on. The third, a pair of shoes, was 
considered in the separate complaint. B offered to replace the shoes new for old but 
because the available colours werent to Mr Ws taste, settlement was agreed at Bs 
replacement cost. As a replacement was offered, again, I think its unlikely things 
would have been different if the basis of cover was new for old.
Overall, Im not persuaded the claim settlement would have been better for Mr W if 
hed had a policy with new for old cover. And I bear in mind he may have had to pay 
a higher premium for this greater level of cover. So I dont think Mr W has suffered a 
financial loss as a result of Pedal Cover not highlighting the change.
However, I do think Mr W suffered a loss of expectation. Its clear from the claim 
notes that he understood he had new for old cover and only found out during the 
claim process that he didnt. This contributed to some avoidable inconvenience for 
him, particularly when discussing potential settlement options, as he understood the 
policy offered greater cover than it did. As this happened because Pedal Cover didnt 
highlight the change to Mr W, Im satisfied it should pay compensation. I think £100 is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to say they agreed with my provisional decision. Neither added any 
comments for me to consider, so I see no need to comment further.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require The Plan Group Limited to pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman