DRN-3171799
The complaint
Mr H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined a claim he
made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to RSA within this decision, it includes its agents and representatives acting on 
its behalf.  
What happened
Mr H is building a property. A dispute has arisen with a retailer (who Ill refer to as S) over
the specification of windows supplied by S and a discount allegedly offered by S as a result.
Mr H says that he contacted S after he discovered the windows which had been delivered
werent the specification hed ordered, and a discount of £3,500 was agreed. S later said
only a £1,500 discount had been agreed.
When S took legal action against Mr H for the full amount it said he owed, he made a claim
on a legal expenses insurance policy he holds with RSA. RSA declined cover for the claim
and after this Mr H complained. When RSA rejected his complaint, he referred his complaint
to our service.
Our investigator didnt think RSA had done anything wrong. She thought that the matters
which led to the dispute with S occurred before Mr H took out the policy. He didnt agree and
asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
My provisional decision
On reviewing the complaint, I considered that the complaint should be upheld, and that RSA 
should reconsider the complaint. In my provisional decision, I noted that the terms and 
conditions of Mr Hs excluded cover for:
Any claim where the cause of action arises from incidents which have occurred or services
or materials and the like which have been provided prior to the first inception date of this
insurance.
I concluded that the date of the incident which gave rise to the claim was 3 September 2020. 
It was on this date that Mr H discovered there was an issue with the windows. The policy 
had been taken out the same day, at 11.08am. RSAs position was that Mr H knew about the 
issue with the windows before that time. Mr H said it was only discovered after the policy 
was taken out.
The evidence available to me didnt allow me to identify when Mr H first contacted S. What I 
did have available was evidence to show that Mr H had attempted to contact a broker on 2 
September without success and that the policy had then been arranged through the same 
broker on the morning of 3 September. I outlined in my provisional decision why I was 
persuaded, on balance, that Mr H had taken out the policy before the issue with the windows 
was discovered. The account given by Mr H indicated that hed been attempting to arrange 
the insurance cover from 2 September, knowing he needed the full extent of the cover (not 
just the legal expenses insurance) provided by the policy by the time the fitters arrived. It 
was while the window fitters were present that the issue was discovered. On the basis that 
the brokers records indicated Mr H had called on 2 September, I thought there was enough 
evidence to suggest that Mr Hs account of when he discovered the issue, and that this was 
after hed taken out the policy, was plausible. 
I discounted Mr Hs separate argument that the policy had been taken out on 3 September 
and so any issue arising that day, irrespective of the time, should be covered. I thought that 
the policy effectively came into existence at 11.08am on 3 September and it was 
unreasonable to say any cover should be provided for something which happened before the 
policy existed. 
RSA had also relied on various other policy conditions which it thought meant that no cover 
was available for the claim. It appeared to have been accepted prior to my decision that RSA 
was no longer relying on any of these but I agreed that on what I had available to me, these 
wouldnt apply.
I concluded that RSA hadnt acted fairly when it declined Mr Hs claim. I said that it should 
reconsider Mr Hs claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
I went on to add that nothing Ive said within this decision precludes RSA from seeking legal 
advice about the prospects of success of Mr Hs claim or the proportionality of pursuing legal 
action against S. And in addition, if further information is obtained by RSA during the course 
of its assessment of the claim, or during the course of any legal proceedings that result 
which suggest that the date (or time) when Mr H was first aware of the issue with the 
windows was before 11.08am on 3 September 2020, it would be entitled to review cover for 
the claim.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr Hs response to my decision focussed on the information our service supplied to S when 
attempting to obtain information assist our investigation and, as he put it, they could provide 
altered data to RSA to obstruct any potential claim.
RSA asked for the detail of the contact between Mr H and the broker. After this was 
provided, RSA didnt make any further submissions in response to the provisional decision. It 
had said in earlier correspondence that if it transpires through the claim that the
dispute arose prior to 11.08am 03/09/2021 that the client reimburses us with the costs 
incurred [sic]. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any new information to refute or dispute what was already 
available. RSAs been provided with the details of Mr Hs attempted contact with the broker 
on 2 September and hasnt given a different interpretation of this, or the implications of this, 
to what Ive said in my provisional decision. 
On the basis that no new evidence has been provided, and my review of the evidence 
meaning that Im not minded to change my conclusions on this point.
Ill deal with what Mr H has said about potential future actions by S during the course of 
further proceedings. My duty is to consider whether RSA acted reasonably, and to set out in this decision my conclusions and the reasons for this. This will inevitably require a certain 
amount of information to be included. I cant omit information from the decision in order to 
prevent S from hypothetically altering data in the future to allow RSA to deny cover for his 
claim.
I assume from RSAs submissions that its position is that if it obtains information showing 
that Mr H notified S of the issue with the windows before 11.08am on 3 September, or other 
evidence is obtained during the course of legal proceedings to show that Mr H was aware of 
the issue before 11.08am then it would reserve its right to recover any costs it had incurred 
from Mr H. Again, this is a hypothetical situation. Im not inclined to say whether RSA could 
fairly do this as Im not in receipt of evidence showing the basis for any such determination. 
All I can do is repeat that in the event of that evidence coming to light, RSA would have the 
right to review its position regarding cover for the claim. 
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited must reconsider Mr Hs claim in accordance with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman