DRN-2243292
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Elite Financial Consulting Limited. He is unhappy about the way 
it handled his personal pension and says this has led to him suffering substantial losses.
What happened
Mr W was advised by Elite. He dealt with a particular adviser whose role is central to the 
complaint. Ill refer to that adviser as Mr A. 
Mr W complained to Elite in March 2020. Mr W said that his pension was reinvested in a 
fund which included shares when it was his understanding from conversations with Mr A that 
it would be left in cash until Brexit was concluded. Mr W was also unhappy that he wasnt 
informed by Elite that Mr A was leaving their organisation, that he didnt receive an annual 
review in September 2019, that Mr A contacted him on behalf of his new company asking 
him to transfer the servicing of his pension to them whilst he was still  working for Elite, and 
that he was charged fees after September 2019 when Mr A left Elite. Mr W says that he felt 
he had no option but to take his pension benefits as a lump sum in 2020 when the markets 
fell due to COVID-19. This meant he was liable to a significant amount of tax on withdrawal. 
Elite upheld the complaint in part. It said the funds had been invested as Mr W had wished 
but accepted that it hadnt provided advice after September 2019. So, it offered a refund of 
its fees plus interest together with £500 for any inconvenience caused.
Mr W didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. 
The complaint was considered by an investigator. He decided that the complaint should be 
upheld in part. He said:
Mr W was made aware of a fund switch from cash to a portfolio fund in September 
2018. There was a switch to cash in January 2019. Mr A said that a switch back to 
the portfolio fund in July 2019 was at Mr Ws request (via his wife, Mrs W). Neither of 
the switches in January or July 2019 were formally documented. Mr A said the 
switches were agreed via text messages, but the investigator noted that there was no 
evidence of them, and this didnt seem appropriate for decisions of this nature. The 
investigator concluded that Mr W shouldnt have moved his funds out of cash in July 
2019 without formal consent and confirmation.
Mr A had told Mr W in August 2019 that he was leaving Elite and invited him to move 
to Mr As new firm. There are no rules preventing Mr A contacting him as he did.
Elite had offered to refund fees from September 2019. This was fair redress for any 
failure to advise after Mr A left.
Elite didnt advise Mr W to withdraw the lump sum so it cant be responsible for any 
losses associated with that.
The investigator set out how Elite should put things right. This was, essentially, to pay any 
loss Mr W had suffered up to 27 February 2020 as he was not invested in cash, refund fees 
from September 2019, and pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Elite accepted the view and offered £3544.06 which had been calculated as the investigator 
had suggested.
Mr W didnt agree. He said that he had lost tens of thousands of pounds and Mr A had 
promised to put things right.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator. I uphold this complaint in part, and Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that Mr W had authorised investment into a portfolio fund in 2018. Im also 
satisfied that he was aware of and wished for the switch to cash in January 2019. I agree 
with the investigator that its odd the switch made in July 2019 was, according to Mr A, 
completed only after an exchange of text messages. If it was, it ought to have been 
confirmed in some form. I agree with the investigator that the move out of cash should only 
have taken place with some formal advice or at least, written confirmation. So, I agree that it 
is fair if Mr W is compensated for any loss caused by his not being invested in cash over the 
period up to 27 February 2020 which is when Elite ceased to be his advisers.
Elite has agreed that it shouldnt have charged fees after Mr A left. It has offered a refund of 
the fees it did charge, and I think that is fair.
I note Mr Ws complaint about not being informed of Mr As departure from Elite, but he was 
made aware of this directly by Mr A. So, I dont think he was inconvenienced by Elite not 
telling him. And he chose to follow Mr A in any event.
The most substantial losses Mr W has suffered arose after 27 February 2020. Thats when 
the servicing of his pension was formally switched from Elite to Mr As new firm. I agree with 
the investigator that Elite are not responsible for any losses after 27 February 2020. That 
includes the tax liability for withdrawing the lump sum. Elite didnt recommend that Mr W do 
that, and it happened after they had ceased to be his adviser. So, in my view Elite cannot be 
responsible for those losses.
A lot has been said about the apparent admissions made by Mr A and an assurance seems 
to have given that Mr W wouldnt be out of pocket. But Mr As comments were made to Mr W 
(and Mrs W) after he had left Elite. When Mr A met with Mr and Mrs W in March 2020 he did 
so whilst representing another business, and not Elite. If Mr and Mrs W wish to take up these 
assurances with Mr A, they may wish to contact the new advisers they appointed in place of 
Elite.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding compensation is to put Mr W back into the position he would probably 
have been in, had it not been for Elites error. I think this would have meant he would
have remained invested in cash after July 2019.
Elite should find out the notional value of the pension on the basis that it remained invested 
in cash until the servicing of the pension was transferred on 27 February 2020. The actual 
value of the pension should be deducted to determine if there is any loss.If there is any loss, this should be paid to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction for tax. Elite has agreed to deduct tax at 15 per cent as the investigator suggested 
although the true rate may be higher.
Elite should also refund its fees in line with its original offer and pay £500 for distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Elite Financial Consulting Limited must calculate and pay 
losses as set out above. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman