DRN-4234587
The complaint
Mr M complains that when he transferred the benefits from his Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) pension plan, he received less than Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited had quoted.
 
What happened
In 1993, Mr M took out an FSAVC pension plan which Aviva later became responsible for. 
The plan had a normal retirement age of 60, which Mr M would reach in May 2022.
By 2021, Mr M was interested in transferring his FSAVC plan benefits to a flexi-access 
drawdown plan with another provider. After being contacted by Mr M, Aviva sent Mr M a 
transfer value quote on 9 February 2021. This said the current transfer value of his plan was 
£24,161.21 including a terminal bonus of £2,717.29, but this value wasnt guaranteed. 
Around this time, Mr M engaged an independent financial adviser (IFA).
On 21 May 2021, Aviva sent Mr M an anniversary certificate which quoted the current 
transfer value as £24,680.60 including a final bonus of £2,733.97, but neither the transfer 
value nor the final bonus were guaranteed.
On 2 September 2021, Mr M signed an application form for his new flexi-access drawdown 
plan. This application stated the approximate value to be paid from his FSAVC to this new 
plan was £25,500 and this represented the full value of the current plan.  
Mr Ms IFA asked Aviva for information about his FSAVC plan, including if there were 
guarantees, additional benefits or penalties. Aviva responded on 7 September 2021, 
providing basic policy information and quoting a transfer/surrender value of £26,143.33.
Aviva sent Mr M and his IFA a retirement pack on 8 September 2021. In the section titled 
Your plans value, the pack said the value of Mr Ms plan was £28,871.30, which included a 
loyalty bonus of £2,728 and a final bonus of £3,248.69. The pack then set out Mr Ms options 
for taking his FSAVC plan benefits, including a lifetime annuity with Aviva, a one-off lump 
sum and a full fund transfer option. Under the full fund transfer option, the pack estimated 
£28,871.30 would be paid to another provider but said this figure was not guaranteed.
Mr Ms IFA called Aviva on 13 September 2021 and was quoted transfer value of 
£26,056.43, and essentially told that nothing would be lost on transfer. 
On 16 September 2021, Aviva wrote to Mr M to say it had transferred £26,065.88 to his flexi-
access drawdown provider in full and final settlement. Mr M called Aviva, as this was less 
than he expected from the retirement pack. Mr M says Aviva explained the difference as 
market fluctuations and assured him it wasnt the case that the loyalty bonus hed expected 
hadnt been included. Mr M also says that when his IFA then called Aviva to ask about the 
difference, Aviva assured it there was no penalty charge.
Mr M emailed his IFA on 21 September 2021 to say hed raised concerns with Aviva but it 
could take some weeks to reply, so he didnt want to delay setting up his flexi-access 
drawdown plan because I want the lump sum asap to pay for some of the work we are 
getting done on the house.
In response to Mr Ms complaint, Aviva said it hadnt made any errors. That the difference 
was due to a loyalty bonus not being included, as this was only payable at retirement or after 
reaching the FSAVC plans normal retirement age of 60. Mr M had transferred out before 
this, so the loyalty bonus wasnt payable. Aviva said it had quoted lower transfer values, 
excluding the loyalty bonus, to Mr Ms IFA on 7 September 2021 and 13 September 2021. 
Mr M came to our Service. He said hed started the FSAVC plan about 25 years ago when 
hed wanted to retire at age 55. And Aviva knew he was cashing it in at age 59, but its 
retirement pack didnt mention hed lose a loyalty bonus. So Aviva didnt give him the choice 
to keep his FSAVC plan for another eight months until age 60 and receive the loyalty bonus. 
And when he called Aviva, it didnt know why hed received less than quoted. Mr M thought 
Aviva should have paid him what it quoted.
While our Investigator was gathering evidence, Aviva confirmed it hadnt applied a loyalty 
bonus because Mr Ms FSAVC benefits were transferred out before his retirement date. But 
it accepted its retirement pack had incorrectly included the loyalty bonus in the transfer 
information section, where it had estimated a transfer value of £28,871.30.
Our Investigator thought most of Avivas communication quoted the correct transfer value, 
i.e. a value that didnt include the loyalty bonus. But he noted Aviva had itself accepted its 
retirement packs full transfer estimate incorrectly included the loyalty bonus and thought it 
should pay Mr M £200 compensation for his loss of expectation. However, he thought that 
even if Aviva hadnt made this error, Mr M would still have transferred before he became 
eligible for the loyalty bonus because his building work meant he urgently needed the funds. 
Mr M disagreed. He said Aviva told him in August 2021 that the transfer value was 
£28,871.30 and also confirmed this to his IFA stating there would be no deductions. And 
when he called about the transferred amount being smaller than this, Aviva said market 
fluctuations had caused the value to fall and didnt mention needing to reach age 60 to get 
the loyalty bonus. Mr M felt strongly that he would have waited to receive the loyalty bonus, 
as hed be £2,800 better off. And that compensation of £200 wouldnt deter Aviva from giving 
misleading and incorrect information to other consumers. 
As agreement couldnt be reached between all parties, Mr M asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an Ombudsman for a decision. 
Whilst that referral was underway, Mr M reiterated some of his complaint points and said 
Aviva should have given him full information so he could make an informed decision about 
taking his FSAVC benefits. In addition, Aviva provided our Service with a full copy of the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ms FSAVC plan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ms FSAVC plan. Regarding the 
loyalty bonus, they say Provided a Regular Contribution and/or Additional Regular 
Contribution is paid for a minimum period of years specific by the Company, a Loyalty Bonus 
may be added to the Members Fund on the Retirement Date of the Member (or on the 
Members death before his pension starts). The terms and conditions which apply in respect 
of payment of the Loyalty Bonus are determined at the absolute discretion of the Company So a loyalty bonus may be paid on Mr Ms retirement date, but only at Avivas 
discretion.
As Mr M transferred the benefits out of his FSAVC plan about eight months before his 
retirement date as recorded on that plan, I think Aviva has acted fairly and in line with the 
plans terms and conditions by not paying the loyalty bonus to Mr M.
However, Mr M argues that Aviva gave him misleading and inaccurate information about his 
plan, so he couldnt make an informed decision about taking his FSAVC benefits. 
Aviva itself accepts that in the retirement pack it sent to Mr M and his IFA on 8 September 
2021, it incorrectly included the loyalty bonus in the transfer information section to estimate a 
transfer value of £28,871.30. So its not disputed that some of the information Aviva gave 
Mr M and his IFA was incorrect. 
For completeness, I also think there were occasions where Aviva could have taken the 
opportunity to explain the limited circumstances under which the loyalty bonus could apply. 
Mr Ms IFA asked Aviva for information about his FSAVC plan in relation to transferring 
 including whether there were any guarantees, additional benefits or penalties - in writing 
on 6 September 2021 and in a call on 13 September 2021. On these occasions, I think Aviva 
could and should have seen that Mr Ms IFA was checking whether anything would be lost 
on transfer and taken the opportunity to explain the terms and conditions of the loyalty 
bonus. However, Aviva made no mention of it. 
But as I say, its not disputed that Aviva gave Mr M and his IFA some incorrect information 
regarding his FSAVC plans transfer value. So I need to consider what Mr M would have 
done had Aviva not made any errors here, and had consistently told him the correct transfer 
value and that a loyalty bonus could apply if he took his FSAVC benefits after his normal 
retirement date in May 2022. 
I appreciate Mr M feels very strongly that if Aviva had done so, he would definitely have 
postponed transferring his FSAVC plan benefits until reaching the plans retirement date, in 
order to receive the loyalty bonus that could then apply. However, I think its more likely than 
not that even if Aviva hadnt made any errors, Mr M would have still transferred his FSAVC 
benefits in September 2021 and not waited eight months until his plans retirement date. Ill 
explain why. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, apart from the incorrect transfer value quote of £28,871.30 
in the 8 September 2021 retirement pack, all the other transfer values Aviva quoted to Mr M 
and his IFA in 2021 were between approximately £24,000 and £26,000. More significantly, 
this was about the amount Mr M was expecting to receive from his FSAVC plan when he 
signed the application on 2 September 2021 to transfer its benefits to a new flexi-access 
drawdown plan with another provider  that application stated the approximate value to be 
paid from his FSAVC to this new plan was £25,500 and that this represented the full value of 
the current plan. 
Further, I think Mr Ms personal circumstances meant he had a pressing need to access 
these benefits. Thats because his IFAs call notes show that when Mr M called his IFA on 
2 August 2021, Mr M said he was currently having a lot of work done on his house. And on 
21 September 2021 Mr M emailed his IFA to say hed raised concerns with Aviva but it could 
take some weeks to reply, so he didnt want to delay setting up his flexi-access drawdown 
plan because I want the lump sum asap to pay for some of the work we are getting done on 
the house. 
I appreciate that Mr M says he would have waited because it meant hed be £2,800 better off. And I accept this is a significant sum of money. But Ive weighed this up against what Im 
satisfied was Mr Ms pressing need for the funds to pay for a significant amount of work that 
was underway on his house. And on balance, Im satisfied Mr M would have chosen to 
receive a slightly smaller amount of money from his FSAVC sooner, rather than waiting at 
least a further eight months to receive any money at all from his FSAVC. 
Taking all this into account, I dont think Aviva caused Mr M to lose out on a loyalty bonus he 
otherwise would have received. 
Putting things right
However, Im satisfied Aviva caused Mr M a loss of expectation, since the retirement pack it 
sent him on 8 September 2021 incorrectly quote the full transfer as £28,871.30. And I think 
Mr M was then left uncertain about what amount should have been transferred out of his 
FSAVC plan, before Aviva correctly explained to him that the discrepancy was due to a 
loyalty bonus not being included. So I think Aviva caused Mr M some unnecessary loss of 
expectation, confusion, and frustration, as well as some minor inconvenience in having to 
contact Aviva to query the difference. But I think this was over a relatively short period of 
time, because Aviva gave Mr M the correct explanation for the difference in amount a month 
after the transfer. Therefore, I think £200 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience Aviva caused Mr M.
I note Mr M thinks £200 isnt a deterrent for Aviva. But its not the role of our Service to 
punish businesses. Instead, its our role to consider individual complaints from consumers. 
And if we think the business has made errors, to consider whether they caused that 
consumer any unnecessary distress, inconvenience or financial loss. And this is what I have 
done in Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
should pay Mr M £200 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it 
caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman