The complaint
Ms G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a monthly premium mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Ms G was sold a MPPI policy in 2004 during a meeting. The PPI would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 24 months per claim if Ms G was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Gs complaint should be upheld. Ms G didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Gs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Ms G was eligible under the policy. Ms G initially told us 
that she was working for a different employer to what BoS had on their systems and records 
from the time of the sale. Ms G then clarified that she was working for the employer that BoS 
had on their systems. However, she said she was working on a zero hours contract/fewer 
than 16 hours a week and was therefore not eligible for the policy. 
Ive considered this carefully but I note that the policy didnt require Ms G to have been 
working above a certain number of hours. The eligibility condition only required (in terms of 
employment) that Ms G be in paid work under a contract of employment and paying the 
appropriate class of National Insurance contributionsBoS records show Ms G was in 
permanent employment and also what her salary was at the time of the sale. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I am satisfied Ms G met the you were working eligibility condition. And I 
havent seen anything else which would make me conclude that Ms G wasnt eligible for the 
policy. I also note that Ms G made a successful claim under the policy. 
So Im satisfied that Ms G was eligible under the policy at the time of the sale.
BoS had to make it clear to Ms G that the MPPI was optional and needed her consent before 
it could be applied to Ms Gs account. Ms G says that the policy was added without her 
knowledge.
DRN-1108167I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. And given the length of time since the 
sale, BoS no longer have all of the documents from the time of the sale. So Ive thought 
about what Ms G has told us and have considered sample documents (which Ms G would 
have seen and been asked to complete at the time of the sale) to help me decide how if and 
how MPPI was presented to her.
From my experience of how BoS sold these policies during face to face meeting, I think its 
more likely that MPPI would have been presented as optional and that MPPI would only 
have been applied to the account if Ms G had chosen to take it out. Ive also seen a copy of 
the special conditions which dont mention anything about Ms G having to take out PPI or 
that it would be applied automatically.
So all in all, while I appreciate what Ms G has told us, I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
conclude that BoS didnt present the policy as optional or that it was added to her account 
without her consent.
BoS accept they advised Ms G to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was suitable 
for Ms G. I dont know if BoS took all the steps they should have to check if the MPPI was 
suitable for Ms G but I do think the policy was suitable for Ms G. I say this because:
 
Ms G has told us she wasnt entitled to any sick pay and had no other means of 
meeting her repayments. So the MPPI would have been the only way of meeting her 
repayments if she was off work sick or lost her job. And the MPPI would have 
provided a monthly benefit for a considerable period of time.
 
Ms G doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under the policy. And as 
already mentioned, Ms G made a successful claim under the policy.
 
Although Ms G has told us she struggled to afford the MPPI, I havent seen any 
evidence which supports this at the time of the sale. The MPPI was reasonably 
priced and provided a valuable benefit in comparison to its cost.
 
Ms G could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Ms G, BoS also had to give her clear 
information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in 
the policy  so that she could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Ms G wasnt as clear as it should have been but this 
in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put her off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for her.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Ms G this MPPI 
policy.
 My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman