DRN-3650734
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC authorised a payment when it told him it had 
been declined, which meant it was duplicated.
What happened
Mr O says he tried to make a payment from his Barclays account on 7 January 2022 for a 
car. He says £1,000 was declined and so he made the payment from a different account. But 
says Barclays later authorised the payment which meant he overpaid for the car by £1,000. 
Mr O says this was Barclays fault and would like it to return the money. He says the car 
seller has refused to return the money or speak to him.
Barclays says it held the payment whilst it carried out security checks at about 14.15 on 7 
January 2022 and told Mr O that and told him that he should not attempt to make the 
payment again. It says it authorised the payment the same day and isnt responsible for Mr 
O making a separate payment. Barclays says it told Mr O that when he called in late January 
2022 and says it tried to recall the payment but without success.
Mr O doesnt accept that view and says he received a message that the payment had been 
declined. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought Mr O had received a 
message telling him the payment had been held. The investigator thought Barclays was 
entitled in line with account terms and conditions to hold a payment pending security checks. 
And thought Mr O ought to have called Barclays if unsure about the payment status.
Mr O doesnt accept that view and maintains he wasnt told the payment was held.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr O will be disappointed and appreciate his frustration in losing £1,000.
I am sure Mr O appreciate that banks and building societies must have security and fraud 
measures in place to protect its and its customers money. That inevitably means on 
occasions legitimate transactions are held for security checks. Im satisfied that is what took 
place here that Mr Os payment was made subject to those security measures which I find 
Barclays is entitled to make in line with agreed account terms and conditions. So, I dont 
think Barclays made a mistake or acted unfairly by holding Mr Os payment until further 
checks were carried out.
I appreciate Mr O says he received a message from Barclays telling him the payment had 
been declined. But I have looked at Barclays records and am satisfied on balance that Mr O 
would have received a message telling him the payment had been held for checks and that 
he should not attempt to make it again. I can see from Barclays records that Mr O did 
attempt the payment again and had tried to make a payment in excess of the permitted 
amount. I think it likely that Mr O may have received a declined message in respect of those 
other attempts. So, I dont think Barclays misled Mr O and think it made clear the payment 
should not be attempted again.
Im satisfied that Mr O made the payment again from a different account and that Barclays 
wouldnt have known about that. I find that was Mr Os choice and that he ought to have 
checked the position with Barclays if he was in any doubt about the earlier payment.
I appreciate the seller of the car has not returned the money but that is not something I can 
fairly hold Barclays responsible for. And dont think it would have made any difference if an 
attempt had been made to recall the money any earlier, considering the status of the car 
sellers account and his actions since the overpayment was made.
Overall, I appreciate Mr O is out of pocket due to the actions of the car seller. But that is not 
something I can fairly hold Barclays responsible for and have made clear that I think it told 
Mr O the payment was being held rather than declined. It follows that I cant fairly order 
Barclays refund the £1,000. I can see Mr O has been given information about he may wish 
to pursue this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman