DRN-3136226
The complaint
Miss J has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under her motor insurance policy and the service it provided. 
A number of other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Advantage are 
responsible for it Ive primarily referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Miss J made a claim under her motor insurance policy after she was involved in an accident. 
She collided with another vehicle that she believed was speeding on a roundabout. When 
Advantage looked into the claim it decided she was at fault for the accident. But Miss J 
wasnt happy about this, so she complained to Advantage.
Advantage looked into things for her and partly upheld her complaint. At one point it looked 
to try and defend Miss J, on a split liability basis, but eventually settled the claim holding 
Miss J fully at fault. However, it acknowledged that its service couldve been better and 
offered Miss J £60 in compensation. As Miss J remained unhappy she complained to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss J and partly upheld her complaint. She looked 
into the circumstances surrounding the incident but was satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that Advantage had acted fairly in deciding liability. However, she didnt think 
Advantages offer of compensation was fair. She asked them to increase the level of 
compensation from £60 to £200. This was because she thought the way that Advantage had 
dealt with the claim was poor and had caused Miss J stress and inconvenience, which 
impacted on her health. 
As Advantage didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be partly upheld. Ill explain why. 
I can understand how difficult and frustrating Miss J has found all of this. I say this as she 
was at the scene when the incident occurred and knows full well what did and didnt happen. 
But it isnt the role of this service to decide liability, which is a matter for the courts. Although 
we do look to ensure insurers have acted in a fair and reasonable way.
Advantage, like most motor insurers, have a clause in the contract that allows them to take 
over the settlement of the claim. This gives it the right to decide whether to proceed to court 
or settle a claim. And court proceedings are uncertain and expensive, so insurers are 
cautious about going to court. They look to consider the costs involved and the likelihood of 
success in making these decisions.
But we look to ensure that insurers act fairly in deciding whether to settle matters and make 
a reasonable assessment of the claim. Based on a clear understanding of the evidence and 
circumstances surrounding the accident. With this in mind, I have carefully considered how 
Advantage has handled Miss Js claim.
Advantage looked into the circumstances surrounding the claim and at one stage it looked to 
settle the claim on a split liability basis. But as Miss J hit the third party car on the 
roundabout when it was already established it felt that it couldnt defend the claim. Although 
Advantage acknowledged that the other driver may have been speeding it explained the 
greater onus was on Miss J as she was entering the roundabout when the other car was 
established on the road at the time of impact. 
It reached out to the independent witness who seems to have confirmed the other driver may 
have been speeding. But Advantage explained it would be difficult to say that the other driver 
was fully at fault given they had the right of way and Miss J collided with their car when they 
were established on the roundabout. And although speed may have been a contributing 
factor Advantage felt it was unlikely to have won if the matter proceeded to court.
Having considered all of this and looking to defend Miss J on a split liability basis, Advantage 
accepted liability. I know Miss J isnt happy about this and says that her witness did send in 
a written account while Advantage only has a telephone record and says it didnt get a 
written response. But I dont think this has had any affect as Advantage considered the 
witness account which was provided over the phone. It just didnt feel that it could defend 
Miss J given she hit the third party on the roundabout. Given all of this I cant conclude that 
Advantage has acted unreasonably in the way it decided liability. 
Finally, it isnt disputed that Advantages service was poor here. It offered £60 in 
acknowledgement of its delay in contacting the independent witness. But our investigator 
thought that this wasnt enough and didnt acknowledge the additional stress it caused Miss 
J with its poor communication and updates. Miss J was in poor health and Advantage 
shouldve ensured it gave clear and timely updates to Miss J. And its failure to do this, 
alongside the delay in contacting the independent witness, left Miss J feeling unsupported 
and with a feeling her claim wasnt being properly investigated. And given all of this I agree 
with our investigator that £200 compensation, as opposed to £60, feels fairer. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay £200 (total) compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman