DRN-3445817
The complaint
Mr B, through a representative, says Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118118 Money, 
irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about a 24-month instalment loan for £3,000 that 118118 Money provided 
to Mr B on 2 April 2017. The monthly repayments were £297.12 and the total repayable
was £7,130.88.
Mr B says it would have been visible to the lender that he had other accounts with debt 
collectors so 118118 Money should not have lent to him. He went on to have financial 
difficulties.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint, he thought 118118 Moneys checks were 
proportionate and it made a fair lending decision. Mr B disagreed and so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Bs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did 118118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr B would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way without experiencing significant 
adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did 118118 Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required 118118 Money to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 118118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this 
meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr 
B undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
118118 Money has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some 
information from Mr B. It asked for his monthly income and outgoings. It completed an 
income verification check and increased his declared costs. It carried out a credit check to 
understand his credit history and his existing credit commitments. It asked about the purpose 
of the loan which was car purchase/repairs. Based on these checks 118118 Money thought 
it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate given the term of the loan and the initial results from 
the credit check, and I think 118118 Money made a fair lending decision based on the 
information it gathered. Ill explain why.
Mr B says he had other debts with debt collectors, and this would have been visible to 118 
118 Money. But this is inaccurate. The debt his representative has listed as having defaulted 
and sold to a debt collector is this loan, so that is not information that would have been 
visible in April 2017. 
The credit check 118118 Money carried out showed Mr B had one active loan, a current 
account and a recently settled loan. He wasnt heavily indebted, he wasnt using an overdraft 
facility on his current account or payday loans, and there was no negative payment data on 
his file. So given this and the fact the lenders affordability assessment showed Mr B would 
have £362.82 monthly disposable income after taking on this loan, I dont think 118118 
Money ought to have thought that there was a risk this loan might not be sustainable 
affordable for Mr B. 
It follows I dont think 118118 Money was wrong to give this loan to Mr B.
I am sorry Mr B went on to have financial difficulties, but I cant fairly find 118118 Money was 
irresponsible to lend to him in April 2017.Ive also thought about whether 118118 Money acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman