DRN-3416729
The complaint
Ms L complains that AXA Assistance (UK) Limited didnt deal with a drainage problem 
through her home insurance policy. This led to damage in her garage when the area flooded 
again.
What happened
Ms L was experiencing problems with drainage at her property. So she called out an 
engineer under the home emergency cover of her home insurance policy. But she doesnt 
think they inspected the correct drain. Ms L has two drains and the engineer only inspected 
one. And a few months later her garage flooded again.
Ms L called an independent company who said the engineer had looked at the wrong drain. 
So Ms L asked for the home emergency engineer to re-attend. But AXA wouldnt send 
another engineer.
AXA said itd looked at the independent report provided by Ms L. The report had identified 
accidental damage to the drainage system. But the home emergency policy didnt provide 
cover for removing, replacing or repairing a damaged drain unless it was totally blocked. And 
its engineer had reported the drain was free flowing when theyd completed their work. 
Ms L wasnt satisfied with AXAs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator looked at what the home emergency 
cover provided. 
She could see it only provided emergency repairs. But Ms Ls independent report had shown 
damage to the drainage system that needed repairing. And she felt AXA had acted 
reasonably by deciding the work wouldnt be covered under the home emergency policy. So 
she wouldnt be asking AXA to do anything different.
Ms L didnt agree with our investigator. Shed reported a build-up of rainwater. But the 
emergency callout had dealt with the sewer drain. And she thinks AXA couldve done more 
to look at the other drain and clear any immediate blockage. So shes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Ls frustration. Her garage was flooding during heavy rain and she feels 
AXA didnt carry out a proper inspection when she asked for their help through the home 
emergency cover of her policy. 
Ms L says they inspected the sewage drain but not the rainwater run-off. And AXA shouldve 
returned to fix the problem. So Ive looked at whether AXA has treated Ms L fairly and in line 
with the terms of her home insurance policy. 
Ms L had home emergency cover as part of her home insurance policy. The home 
emergency section in the policy document explains AXA would arrange for an emergency 
repair. But it always recommended the policyholder arranged for a permanent repair as soon 
as possible. The cover was only intended to provide a temporary solution to the problem. 
The policy defines an emergency as a sudden and unforeseen incident in your home which 
immediately; exposes you or a third party to a risk to health or; creates a risk of loss or 
damage to your home and/or any of your belongings or; makes your home uninhabitable.
Emergency repairs are defined in the terms and conditions as work undertaken by an 
authorised contractor to resolve the emergency by completing a temporary repair. So I think 
its clear that the home emergency cover was only intended to provide a temporary solution 
to the reported problem. 
AXAs home emergency cover doesnt provide for permanent repair work. It only provides 
repairs and/or work immediately required to stop further damage being caused by the 
emergency. When AXAs engineer attended Ms Ls property they found a slow-emptying 
drain. So they traced the pipework and cleared the blockage. The engineer reported that the 
drain was now flowing freely. 
I understand there werent any further problems until poor weather a few months later when 
the flooding problem returned. Ms L obtained an independent report that identified accidental 
damage in the drainage system, probably been caused by ground movement and vehicular 
traffic on the driveway. 
The report recommended excavation and repairs to the drainage. But thats not something 
the home emergency cover was intended to put right. The section not covered in policy 
includes removing, replacing or repairing any part of the drain which is damaged but does 
not result in the total blockage of the drain.
I can see how frustrating Ms L has found this matter. And Ive carefully considered whether 
AXA responded to the original flooding fairly and in line with the terms of the home 
emergency cover of her home insurance policy.
Based on what Ive seen I think its reasonable to say AXAs engineer responded to the 
emergency situation and dealt with the issue identified. There didnt appear to be any 
remaining blockage. And there doesnt appear to have been any other emergency work that 
couldve been carried out at that time under the policy terms.
I appreciate Ms L feels AXA couldve done more when its engineer attended her property. 
She feels they only dealt with one drainage system. And they shouldve inspected the other 
system as well.
But the home emergency cover was only intended to provide a temporary fix to the flooding 
reported. It wasnt intended to provide a permanent solution that wouldve stopped any 
further problems in the future. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest the engineer didnt resolve the immediate problem. And it 
wouldve then been Ms Ls responsibility to carry out any further repairs as necessary to 
prevent a re-occurrence of the problem. 
Im sorry Ms L has been upset by this issue and suffered further damage a few months later 
during flash flooding. But I cant say AXA has treated Ms L unfairly or unreasonably. And I 
cant say its acted outside of the terms and conditions of home emergency cover in the 
home insurance policy. I can see AXA has offered Ms L £60 as a gesture of goodwill for any dissatisfaction felt. And 
I think thats a reasonable offer. But I wont be asking AXA to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman