DRN-2328233
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) dealt with a 
claim against her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020, Miss W was unfortunately involved in a car accident as she changed lanes 
on a roundabout and collided with another car. She gave a statement to Admiral describing 
what happened and during the call, she was told it was likely they would accept 
responsibility for the claim, based on her description. However, they also suggested her 
dash cam footage and photographs would be considered as part of their decision. But, 
before Miss W had the opportunity to provide this evidence, Admiral accepted liability for the 
claim.
Miss W then complained to Admiral as she said the accident wasnt her fault and her 
evidence should have been considered before liability was decided. She thought her footage 
suggested the third party driver drove through a red light, left the roundabout at an unusual 
angle and might also have been speeding. She also said her photographs showed some of 
the damage the third party was claiming for didnt actually exist. 
In response to the complaint, Admiral said their liability decision remained the same, as 
based on Miss Ws testimony, they didnt think they would be able to successfully defend the 
claim should it proceed to court. Miss Ws statement included the fact she didnt see the third 
partys car, and crucially that she turned into a lane she wasnt supposed to. So, reviewing 
the dash cam footage and the photographs wouldnt change things. However, as they had 
given Miss W misleading information about considering her evidence, they offered her £75 
compensation to say sorry.
Our investigator then considered the complaint and said she felt Miss W had received a fair 
resolution. She didnt think the additional evidence would have changed Admirals decision 
had they considered it before accepting liability. However, she did think they had caused 
some confusion and it was right for Admiral to compensate her for this. The investigator also 
said Admirals in-house engineers had since considered Miss Ws photographs and were 
satisfied the damage the third party claimed for, was consistent with the circumstances of 
the accident.
This didnt resolve things for Miss W, as she said lots of people had watched the dash cam 
footage and concluded the other driver was at fault. She also said the third party driver 
expected her to change lane, as they told her theyd seen many other people carry out the 
exact same manoeuvre.
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to explain, Im aware Admiral have issued two final responses in relation to 
this claim. However, in reaching this decision, Ive only considered the complaint that was 
addressed by Admiral on 23 March 2020, namely whether Admiral acted reasonably by 
accepting liability for the claim before considering Miss Ws photographs and dash cam 
footage.
I would also like to reassure Miss W and Admiral that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments in the section above, I have read and considered everything 
provided about this complaint in its entirety.
It isn't my place to decide who is actually liable for the accident at the heart of this complaint, 
that would be a matter for a court of law. What I'm deciding is whether Admiral have applied 
the terms and conditions of the policy reasonably and whether they have dealt with the claim 
fairly. 
The starting point is the agreement between Admiral and Miss W - the policy's terms and 
conditions. Under the terms of the policy, Admiral can independently decide whether to 
defend a claim or settle it. This might mean Admiral makes a decision that Miss W disagrees 
with, as has happened here. I dont find this unusual or surprising as most motor insurance 
policies allow insurers to consider claims in this way. That said, we expect an insurer to 
reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence available before making their 
decision on liability. Ive therefore carefully considered how likely it is Admiral wouldve made 
a different decision, if theyd considered all of Miss Ws evidence first. 
Miss Ws testimony indicated that she was travelling in a lane that was intended to be used 
for going straight on and exiting the roundabout, rather than turning right. As the Highway 
Code states the importance of choosing the correct lane and following road signs on 
roundabouts, Im satisfied Admiral concluded reasonably they wouldnt be able to 
successfully defend the claim on this basis. Miss Ws comment about the third partys 
knowledge of other drivers making the same mistake doesnt change things, as even if there 
was evidence of this comment, the manoeuvre shouldnt have been attempted. 
Ive also reviewed the dash cam footage and I can see that based on the road markings, 
Miss W was in the wrong lane for staying on the roundabout. She chose a lane intended for 
exiting, however, instead of doing so, she re-joined the roundabout by turning right. As the 
third party was in a lane, that could be used for both exiting and continuing, the accident 
unfortunately happened, as the third party attempted to leave the roundabout and Miss W 
decided to change lane. I therefore disagree with Miss W, that the dash cam footage 
suggests the third party driver may have been at fault, or that Admiral would reasonably 
have changed their decision because of it.
Im also satisfied Miss Ws photographs wouldnt have changed the outcome. This is 
because Admirals engineers have since reviewed the photographs and concluded the 
damage the third party claimed for, was consistent with the circumstances of the accident. I 
think it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on their expert engineers to make this decision 
and having reviewed the photographs, Ive not seen anything that would lead me to conclude 
their decision was unfair. That said, I do think it would have been helpful for Admiral to have 
updated Miss W with this information, as it did form part of her original complaint and it 
wasnt specifically addressed in the final response letter. But I dont think shes been left in a 
worse-off position as a result of this oversight.
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Miss W and I know she feels very 
strongly about what happened. I accept Admiral caused some confusion and upset because they didnt consider all of her evidence, before making their decision. But Im also satisfied 
their offer to pay her £75 compensation is a fair way to put this right, and their decision to 
accept responsibility for the claim was otherwise made fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
I think Admiral Insurance Company Limited have already offered Miss W a reasonable 
resolution to her complaint. They should therefore pay her £75 compensation, unless they 
have already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman