DRN-1910036
The complaint
Mr B complained because Aviva Life & Pensions Limited said he couldn't receive his 
pension as a lump sum when he reached the age of 75.
What happened
Aviva wrote to Mr B around the time he turned 74 to tell him:
he could delay taking his pension benefits until his 75th birthday
but it was his responsibility to tell Aviva when he wished to take the benefits
he should do that on or before his 75th birthday, and
if he didn't do anything he would lose the right to take a tax free lump sum and/or the 
right to transfer the fund to another pension.
 
Aviva wrote to Mr B about six months later and again about two months before his birthday. 
It reminded him that he needed to take action before he turned 75 and that if he didn't tell 
Aviva what he wanted to do by then he would lose certain choices (including not being able 
to take a tax free lump sum).
Mr B wrote to Aviva a month before his birthday and told it he wanted a full cash payment to 
be made on the due date. Aviva sent Mr B another letter, which essentially said the same as 
the previous ones. Mr B called Aviva three days before his birthday and was told it was too 
late to receive a lump sum payment as forms needed to be completed and returned to Aviva 
before Mr B's birthday. Mr B complained to Aviva as he was unhappy that he couldn't 
receive his money.
Aviva said that although it received Mr B's letter it needed him to call it so it could make him 
aware of the risks of cashing in the pension. And as this wasn't done it wasn't able to pay the 
lump sum based on Mr B's written instruction alone.
Aviva further explained its position to us when it sent its file. It said:
its letters told Mr B that it needed to receive his completed paperwork before his 75th 
birthday
after it received Mr B's instructions it wrote to him saying he needed to call it to go 
through the risk checks
Mr B calling three days prior to his birthday didn't allow it enough time for the 
transaction to be completed.
 
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I thought the complaint should be 
upheld. The main parts of my provisional decision are outlined below and form part of my 
final decision:
The initial letters Aviva sent were generic in nature. They told Mr B that he needed to 
take action before his 75th birthday; and they told him what might happen if he didn't do that. But I thought there was a lack of clarity over how late Mr B could leave it 
before telling Aviva what he wanted to do. The letters didn't say anything about Aviva 
needing a certain number of days in order to send, receive and process any forms. I 
thought the letter sent around Mr B's 74th birthday could be interpreted as Mr B 
being able to tell Aviva what he wanted to do on his 75th birthday - which was 
misleading because three days before his birthday was already too late.
The initial letter said that if Mr B hadn't bought his retirement benefits before his 75th 
birthday he might lose some options. But I didn't think that was clear enough to a 
layman, particularly given the ambiguity in other parts of the letter. A later letter said 
any transfer needed to be completed by Mr B's 75th birthday. But I didn't think that 
was clear enough either as it was only mentioned in respect of Mr B transferring to 
another pension.
Despite what Aviva has told us, there was nothing mentioned in any of the letters 
sent to Mr B about it needing to receive his completed paperwork before his 75th 
birthday. All that was said was that Mr B needed to tell Aviva what he wanted to do.
It was clear that Mr B told Aviva a month before he turned 75 what he wanted to do. I 
didn't think Aviva actioned that request satisfactorily. The letter it sent after receiving 
the request was again of a generic nature - it didn't refer to Mr B's letter or request. 
And contrary to what Aviva told us, the letter said nothing about Mr B needing to call 
so it could explain any risks. It only said Mr B should call if he had any questions.
If it was so important for Aviva to speak to Mr B to explain the risks - and given the 
value of the fund I wasn't sure how great any risk actually was - it wasn't clear to me 
why Aviva didn't simply try to call him. Nothing I'd seen suggested it did so or tried.
Aviva's argument was essentially that despite its warnings Mr B left it too late for it to 
arrange a lump sum payment. I disagreed with that. It was true that Mr B only called 
Aviva one working day before his birthday (allowing for the weekend). But I thought 
that was because Aviva hadn't explained clearly enough what he needed to do and 
when by. Mr B actually did what Aviva told him to do - he told it a month before he 
turned 75 that he wanted a full cash payment when he turned 75. Aviva didn't 
properly or fairly action that request.
Having concluded that Aviva treated Mr B unfairly, I thought about what would have 
happen had it treated him fairly. Had Aviva given Mr B a clear explanation and/or 
instructions, I thought it most likely that the transaction would have been completed 
in time for Mr B to receive his lump sum payment. So to put Mr B back in the position 
he would have been in, I thought the fair solution was for Aviva to pay him an amount 
equivalent to the lump sum he would have received (taking into account tax and any 
other deductions that might be applicable) on his 75th birthday.
I was nevertheless mindful that Mr B's pension remained 'live' and that there was a 
possibility with my proposal that he'd be compensated twice eg being paid the 
compensation and still using the funds to buy an annuity. So I invited any comments 
on this from Mr B or Aviva in response to my provisional decision. But I said if there 
was no way round it, it might have to be that Aviva compensates Mr B as I suggested 
irrespective of where that left the pension.
 
Mr B agreed with my provisional decision. Aviva also agreed with it - although it said if Mr B 
wished to receive the lump sum payment it would need the relevant paperwork to be 
completed. Neither party made any comments about Mr B potentially being compensated 
twice.
 
What Ive decided  and whyI've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision there is nothing further for me to 
consider. My final decision therefore remains as outlined in my provisional decision - for the 
same reasons.
Putting things right
To put Mr B back into the position he would have been in had Aviva clearly explained things, 
Aviva should:
pay Mr B an amount equivalent to the lump sum payment that he would have 
received on his 75th birthday
plus interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum (less tax if properly deductible), 
calculated from Mr B's 75th birthday.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Life & Pensions Limited to pay Mr B compensation as 
outlined under the 'Putting things right' heading above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman