DRN-2949279
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S is unhappy with several aspects of how Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading 
as Barclaycard, managed the late Mrs Ss credit accounts, including that they provided an 
amount of credit to the late Mrs S that wasnt reasonably affordable for her.
What happened
The late Mrs S held two credit card accounts with Barclays. Sadly, in August 2019, Mrs S 
died. Her son acted as executor for the late Mrs Ss estate, and when reviewing his late 
mothers finances became aware of the two Barclays credit accounts, which he felt had 
credit limits and balances such that Mrs S had had no reasonable possibility  as a retired 
pensioner with little chance of an increase in personal income  to have ever cleared.
The late Mrs Ss son felt that this meant that Barclays had allowing the late Mrs S to 
maintain her accounts in a state of persistent debt, which he didnt feel was fair. He was also 
unhappy that following the death of his mother, Barclays wouldnt allow the estate access to 
the approximately £8,000 balance in the late Mrs Ss current account, which Barclays 
subsequently used to reduce the balance outstanding on the credit card accounts. So, the 
estate of Mrs S raised a complaint, which was later referred to this service.
Barclays looked at the estate of Mrs Ss complaint. But they noted that the terms and 
conditions of their accounts allowed for the current account balance to be used to reduce 
credit account debts in these circumstances. And while Barclays acknowledged the 
limitations in regard to the information available on the credit limit increases on the credit 
accounts  the last of which took place in 2010  they also didnt feel that there was anything 
in the information that was available to them that gave them any reason to suspect that the 
credit limit increases that had been implemented had been unaffordable for the late Mrs S at 
the times that they had been implemented.
The estate of the late Mrs S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, and so they confirmed 
that they wanted this service to assess their complaint. One of our investigators looked at 
this complaint. But they also noted that the Barclays terms allowed for the use of the current 
account balance to reduce the credit account balances, and they didnt feel that enough 
information had survived from the time of the credit limit increases on the credit accounts 
such that it could fairly be said that Barclays had provided those credit limit increases to the 
late Mrs S irresponsibly.
The estate of the late Mrs S remained dissatisfied, and so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can appreciate the estate of Mrs Ss strength of feeling here, and Id like to 
thank the estate of Mrs S for their patience while I conducted my review of this complaint.
One of the most challenging aspects of assessing this complaint surrounds the length of 
time that has passed since the credit limit increases were applied to the late Mrs Ss credit 
accounts, the last of which took place in 2010. This means that given the time thats passed 
here, the evidence available for me to consider is limited.
In their correspondence with this service, the estate of the late Mrs S have made a number 
of arguments that the known facts surrounding this complaint are sufficient to demonstrate 
that Barclays did implement credit limit increases on the late Mrs Ss credit accounts that 
were unaffordable for her at those times.
These known facts include that Mrs S became of pensionable age in approximately 1996, 
which meant that the credit limit increases that Barclays applied to her credit accounts were 
provided to Mrs S at a time when she was a retired pensioner and therefore unlikely to have 
any future significant increase in personal income. 
It's also known that the late Mrs S had pension income of approximately £11,000, and that 
by the time of the last credit limit increase in 2010 had a combined credit limit across both 
Barclays credit account of £25,000.
Its therefore easy to understand the position of the estate of the late Mrs S here, which is 
that it was irresponsible of Barclays to provide such a high amount of total credit to a retired 
pensioner whose annual pension income was considerably less than half of the total amount 
of credit provided, and who as a pensioner had very little realistic chance of obtaining an 
increase in personal income. All of which means that if the late Mrs S used her credit 
accounts close to the credit limits provided  which she did  then it was potentially highly 
unlikely that the late Mrs S would ever have been able to repay that credit.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) now recognise that consumers who are in a 
position such as Ive described above  where they have an amount of credit that they can 
afford to service on a monthly basis (i.e. make the monthly minimum payments required by 
that credit) but cant afford to make larger payments to reduce the total balance outstanding 
in any reasonable amount of time  are in a position which the FCA describe as being in 
persistent debt. 
And the estate of the late Mrs S have referenced in their submissions to this service that the 
late Mrs S was in a state of persistent debt here, which again could suggest that the credit 
was provided to the late Mrs S irresponsibly.
But the FCA regulations that now address consumers in a state of persistent debt only came 
into force fairly recently, and many years after the last of the credit limit increases were 
applied to the late Mrs Ss credit accounts in 2010. Its also the case that these regulations 
came into effect after the late Mrs S passed away. And so while I acknowledge that if the 
late Mrs S were alive today that Barclays might be compelled to undertake the actions 
prescribed by the persistent debt regulations, for the purposes of this complaint it wouldnt 
be fair of me to say whether Barclays have acted fairly in regard to these regulations, 
because the regulations didnt apply at the times relevant to this complaint and arent 
retrospective.
Another important consideration here is the amount of time that has passed since the credit 
limit increases took place. I say this because credit providers such as Barclays are generally 
required to retain information, which will usually include information about credit limit 
increases, including any credit worthiness assessments they undertook before implementing 
a credit limit increase, for a period of six years from the date of the credit limit increase.But in this instance the most recent credit limit increase was in 2010, which is more than six 
years ago, and Barclays have confirmed that they no longer hold any information about 
these credit limit increases, including any credit worthiness assessments or details of any 
conversations that they may have had with the late Mrs S. And given the length of time that 
has elapsed here, this service wouldnt expect Barclays to have retained that information.
This makes it very difficult for me to consider upholding this aspect of the estate of Mrs Ss 
complaint here. This is because, as an impartial dispute resolution service, its difficult not to 
conclude that Barclays are effectively prejudiced against by the passing of time here, given 
that they no longer have any information or evidence that they might previously have held 
which demonstrated why the credit limit increases had been assessed as being responsible.
Ive taken account of what the estate has said about Mrs Ss financial position at the time of 
the credit limit increases. But I dont (and cant) know exactly what Mrs S would have told 
Barclays about her financial position at those times, and nor do I know the finer details of 
what her income and expenditure were.
So, while it does look like any lending decisions here may have been finely balanced, there 
are also other points of consideration. These include the fact that the Mrs S repaid what 
shed borrowed for a considerable period of time and in line with the terms on which the 
credit was provided without any apparent difficulty. Nor can I see that the late Mrs S appears 
to have contacted Barclays about the amount of credit she was provided with herself, or 
about any financial difficulties this was causing her. 
All of which means that, while I acknowledge that the surviving information available about 
late Mrs Ss credit accounts provides understandable cause for concern, I dont feel that I 
can reasonably conclude that Barclays acted unfairly in providing the credit to Mrs S that 
they did here. And it follows from this that I dont feel that I can fairly uphold this aspect of 
the estate of Mrs Ss complaint.
Finally, while I can understand how the estate of Mrs S would be upset that Barclays applied 
the balance held in the late Mrs Ss current account to reduce the amount outstanding on the 
credit accounts, Im satisfied that Barclays have been able to demonstrate that this course of 
action was permitted by the terms of their accounts, and that therefore Barclays werent 
acting unfairly by doing do.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that the estate of Mrs S wanted, but I hope that theyll 
be able to understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman