DRN-2666859
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (GL), carried out a poor standard of 
customer service and damaged her boiler under her home emergency policy. 
What happened
In 2019, Mrs S took out a home emergency policy that covered her amongst other things, for 
an annual service of her boiler. For a few months she tried unsuccessfully to book the 
annual service but was only successful in making a booking in July 2020. GL sent an 
engineer to carry out the service. 
Soon after the engineer had left Mrs S property, she found that when she turned on the hot 
water, a loud noise could be heard, so she contacted GL to report the issue and it sent 
another engineer. He diagnosed that there was a faulty fan, ordered the part and turned off 
the boiler, which meant that Mrs S and her family were without heating and hot water.  
An engineer returned a few days later to complete the repair. But because Mrs S believed 
that the first engineer had damaged her boiler, she refused to pay the excess charge and 
raised a complaint. GL agreed to waiver the excess charge as a goodwill gesture. But Mrs S 
was unhappy with this as she said that she had not been provided with the service that she 
had paid for and wanted. So, she referred a complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered her complaint and didnt uphold it. He said that the 
annual service was completed within the contracted time frame. It was unclear how the 
damage was caused, and he couldnt agree that there had been unavoidable delays. 
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator. She said that her main complaint was that she 
hadnt received the service that she had paid for when her boiler was serviced, and she 
received poor levels of customer service in resolving this. She felt that the engineer had 
damaged her boiler and left her without heating and hot water, which was unacceptable. So, 
she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
The main issues here are:
Poor customer service and not the service Mrs S had paid for.
The GL engineer had damaged Mrs S boiler.
Since August 2019, Mrs S held a home emergency and boiler breakdown policy, which also 
included an annual service of her boiler. Mrs S said that she contacted GL a few times to try 
and book the annual service but wasnt successful in doing so until July 2020. 
I have looked at the policy documents and the terms and conditions provide that: Your 
annual service will usually be completed between April and September. Although, I accept 
that Mrs S struggled to book an appointment, the annual service that was eventually 
secured, was during the timeframe specified in the policy and within the year that the policy 
ran for. Consequently, Im satisfied that GL followed the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mrs S policy provided for a few different emergencies including boiler breakdown and an 
annual service. The cover lasted a year and specified that if there was an emergency in her 
home, GL would arrange for an engineer to attend to carry out a repair. Mrs S said that she 
wasnt provided with the service that she signed up for. But I havent seen any evidence 
which shows that had Mrs S needed the services of an engineer, that GL wouldnt have 
provided cover, if Mrs S required it. 
I have next considered whether the engineer had damaged Mrs S boiler, that left her without 
heating and hot water. GL accept that Mrs S was left without heating and hot water for 
around five days. So, Ive looked at the timeline of this to see if there were any avoidable 
delays  which are delays that couldve been avoided, had GL done something else. And I 
dont think there were, so Ill explain why. 
Following the annual service of Mrs S boiler, she heard noises and contacted GL. GL sent 
an engineer the next day. He diagnosed a faulty fan and ordered a replacement part. Once 
the part was received by GL, it sent an engineer to complete the repair. The total days this 
took was around five. I am aware that Mrs S made several calls for updates during this 
period because of her family circumstances. But I cant agree that there were any avoidable 
delays here. I note that GL did waiver the excess charge of £50, due to the poor service that 
Mrs S received, and I think that this was reasonable. 
Mrs S also complained that the engineer damaged her boiler and if he had turned on the tap 
following the service, he wouldve known that there was an issue with her boiler. I have 
carefully reviewed the system notes. Those notes disclose that a part was required for the 
boiler and that part (the fan) was ordered. As there were no engineer notes on file, I asked 
GL to outline what the engineer wouldve done during a service. It said that gas pressures 
would be corrected, a few components would be examined, and the fan would also be 
checked to see if it was working correctly. 
Mrs S said that her boiler wasnt serviced as it shouldve been and that the engineer left her 
with a faulty boiler. Mrs S was asked if she had any expert evidence to support her view that 
the engineer damaged her boiler. This wasnt provided. 
GLs engineer (who would be deemed an expert) noted that the cause of the damage was 
unclear. So, Im not satisfied that GLs engineer did cause damage to the boiler. And, as GL 
has confirmed, one of the checks that would be carried out during the service would be to 
ensure that the fan was working efficiently, I asked GL its views as to why the fan would 
have failed so quickly after the service. It said that the cause of damage to the fan was 
unclear and couldve been coincidental. And as there is no expert evidence from Mrs S to 
the contrary, I think its likely that the fault with the boiler was unrelated to the actions of the 
engineer.
Overall, GL has accepted that there was some poor customer service and for this it waivered 
the £50 excess charge, which I think is reasonable. So, I wont be asking GL to do anything 
more to resolve the complaint.My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that:
Great Lakes Insurance SE has waivered the excess charge of £50 and I think this offer is fair 
in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman