DRN-2562842
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the amount of compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC paid him 
regarding the commission and profit share on his payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
He has also asked for the sale of the policy to be looked into.
What happened
In 2006, Mr D took out a Barclays credit card along with a PPI policy to cover it.
In 2014, Barclays wrote to Mr D to tell him they may have mis-sold his policy. They invited 
him to start a complaint so they could look into it. When they didnt hear back, they sent him 
a further reminder about this. In both letters they told him he had three years to complain, so 
they urged him to get in touch promptly.
In 2019, Mr D complained about the sale of his PPI. But Barclays said he was outside of the 
time limits to complain about the sale, and they didnt consent to it being looked into.
Barclays did look at the rules about commission and profit share on PPI policies. They found 
that they needed to pay Mr D back some of the cost of the PPI. They paid him £132.20.
Mr D came to our service. He wanted the sale of the PPI to be looked into. And he said hed 
done his own calculations and disagreed with the amount of interest Barclays had refunded 
him.
Our adjudicator found that the sale of the policy was out of our jurisdiction, and that Barclays 
offer had been fairly calculated. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr D and Barclays a provisional decision on 18 January 2021, to explain why 
I thought the sale was out of our jurisdiction, and why I thought Barclays had already 
compensated Mr D fairly regarding the commission and profit share. In that decision, 
I said:
The sale of the PPI policy
Were not able to consider every complaint thats brought to us. The rules about complaining 
to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into cases. These rules are the 
Dispute Resolution rules (or DISP for short), as set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCAs) handbook.
Under DISP 2.8.2R, I cant consider a complaint which is made more than six years after the 
event being complained about, or  if later  more than three years from the date the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that he had cause for 
complaint.
Mr D bought the PPI in 2006. He complained about that sale in 2019. This was more than six 
years afterwards.
Barclays wrote to Mr D twice in 2014, to let him know he had cause to complain about PPI. 
They wrote to the correct address, and I can see from their electronic records that the letters 
were indeed sent to him. So I think Mr D would have been aware  or ought reasonably to 
have been aware  that he had cause for complaint at that point. But Mr D only complained 
in 2019  more than three years later.
So this complaint was made out of time. I could still consider this case if both parties 
consented to me doing so. But Barclays do not consent.
Ive also considered whether there were any exceptional circumstances that prevented Mr D 
from making his complaint in time. He says he lived in shared accommodation and so didnt 
always get his post. But Im afraid I dont consider living in shared accommodation to be 
exceptional. And Im not clear on why living in shared accommodation would prevent Mr D 
from receiving post. In any case, I think its highly unlikely that both of Barclays letters went 
missing. So I think its most likely that Mr D did get them at the time  though I can 
understand if he no longer recalls doing so after such a long time.
Mr D has suggested that Barclays shouldve used registered mail. But there was no 
requirement for them to do so.
Mr D also said he thought the six-year period was only relevant to how long businesses keep 
documents for. But Im afraid thats something different  the rules around data protection 
are a different set of rules than the ones about our jurisdiction and arent relevant here.
So I plan to conclude that we do not have the power to investigate Mr Ds complaint about 
the sale of this PPI policy, as it was made outside of the time limits in our jurisdiction.
Barclays refund
While I cannot consider the sale of the policy, Barclays did consent to us looking at the 
commission and profit share on the PPI.
Barclays has paid Mr D back some of the cost of the PPI, because they got a high level of 
commission and profit share  more than 50% of the PPI premium  so they should have 
told Mr D about that at the time. Because Barclays didnt tell him, that was unfair.
So to put that right, Barclays have basically paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  which I think is a fair way to resolve this 
issue.
Barclays refund had to put Mr D back in the financial position he wouldve been in if the 
commission and profit share had not been above 50% of the PPI premium.For a credit card like Mr Ds, that means refunding the extra he paid to clear the balance 
because of the excess commission and profit share, including the extra he wouldve paid in 
interest on the credit card.
It also means adding 8% simple interest onto each of Mr Ds overpayments. That simple 
interest is there to compensate Mr D for the time he didnt have his money. This can also be 
called statutory compensation  its the same rate of compensation that the courts use in 
similar situations. Banks are then required by HMRC to take tax off of that simple interest, to 
save customers from having to report it to HMRC themselves.
I can see that Barclays refund included all of that. They found that Mr D had overpaid 
£61.09 in commission, and £13.56 in interest on that commission. They calculated 8% 
simple interest on his overpayments to be £71.93, then took £14.38 tax off. So the total was 
£132.20  which is what they paid Mr D.
Mr D feels that Barclays worked out the interest wrong, as he worked out that 8% compound 
interest came to about £93, and not £13.56. But while I can see his line of thinking, Im afraid 
hes got things mixed up.
As I explained above, the 8% interest rate relates only to the statutory compensation  the 
£71.93, not the £13.56. And its worked out using simple interest, not compound interest. 
Mr Ds calculations added interest on top of interest, which is not how this statutory 
compensation is worked out. Im satisfied that Barclays worked it out correctly.
The £13.56 was the extra credit card interest that Mr D paid because of his commission and 
profit share being over 50% of the PPI premium. This was compound interest, but was only 
charged in months where Mr D didnt clear his credit card balance in full. And I can see from 
his transaction history that he cleared his credit card balance in full quite often during the 
period where PPI was charged. That means he didnt pay that much in interest, so there 
wasnt much for Barclays to refund there.
So I plan to conclude that Barclays worked out Mr Ds offer fairly.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
2 February 2021. But neither Mr D nor Barclays sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I conclude that we cannot consider Mr Ds complaint about the sale 
of this PPI policy. I also conclude that Barclays Bank UK PLC have already compensated 
Mr D fairly for the excess commission and profit share on his PPI.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman