DRN-1928110
The complaint
Mr M has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portafina) to transfer a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) he held with 
his former employer and a personal pension plan (PPP) to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). The funds within the SIPP were then used to invest in several unregulated 
collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mr M is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr M.
What happened
Mr M was introduced to Portafina in 2014 after hed been in contact with another business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative 
(AR) of a regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to 
provide pension transfer advice. Portafina had an established business arrangement with 
Firm C, whereby Portafina would provide the pension transfer advice before referring the 
client back to Firm C for investment advice on the transferred funds, and this arrangement 
was followed for Mr M.
At the time the fact-find was completed, Mr M was 46 years old, single and living in rented 
accommodation. He had children, but they did not live with him and their ages were not 
recorded. He earned approximately £40,000 per annum, had cash savings of £2,000 and no 
investments. His desired retirement age was recorded as 65 in the fact-find. His attitude to 
risk (ATR) was recorded as adventurous.
It was noted Mr M held retained benefits in an OPS, which had offered a Cash Equivalent 
Transfer Value (CETV) of £74,153. This was projected to provide a pension of £8,958 a 
year from age 65, or £6,201 if he took tax-free cash (TFC) of £41,343. He also had a PPP 
valued at £24,359.15, made up of former protected and non-protected rights (£13,535.12 
and £10,824.03 respectively).
It was noted that Mr M wanted to be able to withdraw income and TFC from his pension at 
age 55. Portafinas suitability report of 13 August 2014 stated that it was not possible to take 
funds from either pension before age 65 and that Mr M wanted to retire at age 60. Portafina 
recommend that Mr M transfer his OPS benefits and PPP into a new SIPP. It also said that 
the investment advice would be provided to him by Firm C.
The final transfer value of the OPS was £85,132.64. The value of the PPP was £24,730.02  
£109,862.66 in total was transferred to the SIPP on 6 October 2014. 
£61,500 was invested in the following UCIS funds:
UCIS
Brisa Investments  £8,900
Biomass Investments  £8,300 
Lakeview UK Holdings  £8,300
Motion Picture Global  £9,400 
Real Estate USA  £8,300
Strategic Residential  £9,400
Tambaba Investments  £8,900
The remainder of the pension was allocated to a regulated investment fund, the Newscape 
5alpha Adventurous fund.
Mr M complained to the FSCS about the investments recommended by Firm C, but his claim 
was rejected on 6 July 2018. He was directed to complain to Portafina as it had 
recommended he transfer his OPS benefits and PPP to the SIPP.
In February 2019, Mr M complained to Portafina that the advice to transfer his OPS and PPP 
was unsuitable for him. He said the investment in the SIPP exposed the pension fund to 
significant risk, not only from the loss of guaranteed benefits, but also the market risk within 
the funds. He also said that as he could not withdraw any TFC until age 55 it would have 
been better to wait until he was closer to that age, rather than lose the valuable benefits.
Portafina didnt agree. It said Firm C was responsible for any investment advice and had 
forwarded the complaint to them. It noted that Mr M was aware that his OPS provided a 
guaranteed income and that he could not access any of the transferred benefits until age 55. 
He had signed documents confirming this. He had agreed that he could afford to accept 
investment risk. Portafina said Mr M had told it that he expected to be promoted at work, 
which would allow him to save more for retirement and so his pensions might not have been 
too significant by then.
Portafina also said its recommendation to transfer was based on other factors, not just the 
TFC aspect. It said it allowed him to take ownership and control of his pension and also vary 
the income year to year. Mr M stated that this control was an important factor when 
considering the potential benefits of a transfer.
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He believed that 
the critical yield of 9.3% was too high to be achieved. He said Portafinas own model 
portfolio projected returns of 6.76% a year before charges, so Mr M would have been worse 
off by transferring his OPS benefits. The investigator didnt think that getting a consumer to 
sign a declaration meant that the advice was suitable or in their best interests.
The investigator noted that the PPP was barely touched upon in the suitability report. He 
said there was no comparison of costs or any acknowledgement that the annualised returns 
were actually already higher than the recommended portfolio. Although the annual charges 
were lower, once the 5% transfer fee was factored in he did not think there was any real 
benefit in the recommendation to switch the PPP to a SIPP.
The investigator added that although Firm C were recommending the investments, Portafina 
still should have considered these when advising on the transfer, as per the regulators 
update of 2013. He said this would have alerted Portafina to Firm Cs intention to recommend investing in UCIS. The investigator also didnt think Mr M had an adventurous 
ATR and believed that a balanced ATR rating was more appropriate.
Portafina didnt agree and provided a recording of the telephone review Mr M had with its 
paraplanner in 2014. It said Mr M preferred to take his income via drawdown at retirement, 
therefore it had relied on the hurdle rate of 5.77%, which could be matched by its own 
benchmark. As he was divorced, it said Mr M did not need the spouses benefit from his 
OPS and transferring would provide greater death benefits for his children. It also maintained 
the switch was suitable because his PPP was invested in a low-medium risk portfolio and 
because of the lower costs associated with the SIPP.
Portafina said that it had carried out due diligence on Firm C, which included requesting 
details of the investment strategy envisaged for clients like Mr M. Furthermore, it said that 
the FCA allowed for two advisers to work together and advise on different aspects of a 
transaction.
The investigator did not change his opinion. He noted that during the call Mr M stated that he 
intended to work until age 65, but would consider retiring at 60 at the earliest. So, he didnt 
really think there was a clear intention from Mr M to retire early. He also said that TFC was 
not important to him. When asked about death benefits, he said that they were not important, 
as his children were doing well. He maintained his view that Portafina needed to know the 
investments envisaged specifically for Mr M for it to make a suitable recommendation to 
transfer.
Because the parties have been unable to agree, the case has now come to me to make a
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Portafina advised Mr M to transfer his OPS and PPP to a SIPP but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP, as Firm C was meant to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange 
Mr Ms underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portafinas responsibilities 
ended once the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money then made available 
for investment. I believe that as Mr Ms financial adviser, Portafina still had a duty to ensure 
the overall transaction was suitable, notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to 
be involved. 
Suitable advice couldnt, in my view, be given without thinking about the intended
investment. Portafina appeared to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying
Firm C would provide specific investment advice, it set out its own fund recommendations
for the asset classes Mr M should invest in and to what extent. It suggested that, due to his
risk profile, Mr M should invest in the following assets:
Cash 10%
Equities 75%
Secured Structured Bonds 15%
Portafina explained that secured bonds werent regulated collective investments and could
only be recommended by authorised and regulated independent financial advisers (IFAs)such as itself. It said that while secured bonds werent covered by the Financial Services
Compensation Scheme (FSCS), its recommendations relating to them were. It added that
secured bonds werent volatile and therefore reduced the overall volatility of Mr Ms portfolio.
The recommendations made up a model portfolio for an adventurous investor, which 
Portafina satisfied itself Mr M was. And its partly on this basis that, if Mr M invested in line 
with a suitable model portfolio and achieved the relevant targeted returns, Portafina
concluded that transferring could increase his overall pension benefits and therefore be
worthwhile.
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened here, I dont think Portafinas advice to 
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought 
to. At the time of the advice the regulator had made its view clear that it considered in order 
to suitably advise on pension transfers and pension switches, a firm needed to consider the 
suitability of the underlying investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
A further alert from the regulator in April 2014 stated: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying 
investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
The failings outlined in this alert are unacceptable and amount to conduct that falls well short
of firms obligations under our Principles for Businesses and Conduct of Business rules. In
particular, we are reminding firms that they must conduct their business with integrity
(Principle 1), due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2) and must pay due regard to the
interests of their customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6).
Portafina says that this alert was specific to situations where the other firm that made the
investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulatedintroducer. It believes this distinguishes the circumstances of Mr Ms transaction from the
scenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to assess the
overall suitability of the proposed investments. Whilst Ive given that possibility careful
thought, I dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific circumstances.
I can see that the 2013 alert makes it clear that suitable investment advice generally 
requires consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the 
suitability of the overall proposition when advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for 
investment in other products (such as the SIPP in Mr Ms case). It further refers to the 
broadly applicable rules and guidance that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must 
first take time to familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In 
saying that, I dont think the FCA intended that in pension switch and transfer cases, regard 
to the overall proposition was only required where the introducing firm was unregulated, or 
where the assets contemplated included unregulated investments.
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application
to pension switch and transfer advice, but pointing out that it had particular concern about
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. I think 
the 2014 alert supports this view as it clearly refers to what the regulator expects advisers to 
do when providing pension switch or transfer advice more generally. So, I think these alerts 
are relevant to firms in the position of Portafina in this case.
Portafina appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mr M it wasnt providing
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted
basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the
suitability of the transfer and switch had to include the suitability of the underlying 
investments. I dont think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the 
matter.
Both alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching Principles for Businesses
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portafina was subject to. And with
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under
these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to
Mr M under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a limited retainer didnt
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was suitable - again, this
had to include consideration of how Mr Ms funds would be invested.
COBS 9.2 required Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was
suitable for Mr M. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain enough
information from Mr M to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear
the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
COBS 9.2.2R included the following wording:
(...) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
So, as part of the fact-finding process, Portafina had to understand Mr Ms objectives  two 
of which were a willingness to take more risk and greater fund choice  and the related risks. 
It wasnt free to ignore how Mr Ms funds were going to be invested irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be inextricably linked to 
the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer without 
knowing what Mr M would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind seem reasonably 
possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory framework that existed at the time of
Portafinas advice and had to be complied with. Principles 1 (conducting business with
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers
interests and treating them fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice for a customer entitled to rely on the
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what Ive outlined
above. Ive considered Portafinas advice with these in mind.
As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets
of the SIPP it recommended, it says it was unaware of where, further to Firm Cs
involvement, Mr Ms transferred funds would ultimately be invested. As Firm C was regulated
and able to provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable, it says it saw
no issue with this.
Portafina also says that its advisers carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C, including
background checks on key individuals, its accounts and information about previous 
complaints. It maintains that Portafina followed FCA guidelines when only advising on the 
pension transfer by performing the attitude to risk assessment. It said Firm C wasnt bound 
by this assessment and could have recommended any investments they thought were 
suitable for Mr M. Portafina says it was satisfied Firm C was qualified to provide investment 
advice and the FCA allows for one regulated firm to assess the pension transfer and the 
other to provide investment advice.
Portafina hasnt provided us with evidence of the due diligence it carried out on Firm C in
connection with this complaint. But even if Portafina had carried the general due diligence
checks it has mentioned, I dont think that satisfies the regulators expectations as set out in
the alerts. The checks it made on Firm C weren't specific to the investments envisaged for
Mr M. 
Portafina also said that it requested details of the investment strategy Firm C was likely to 
deploy for clients such as Mr M, but hasnt said what information it was given in response to 
this request, if anything at all. I havent seen any evidence that further checks were made by 
Portafina to satisfy itself that the pension transfer advice it was giving to clients was aligned 
with the investment advice they were receiving from Firm C. The need to do so was a 
necessary part of the suitability assessment carried out by Portafina for individual clients. But 
I think it was also a reasonable due diligence requirement brought about by the ongoing 
relationship it had with Firm C. This wouldve highlighted any patterns of unsuitable or 
unaligned advice, which could be identified and addressed.
Furthermore, while Portafina should have been aware of the general investment strategy 
that Firm C proposed for clients, it also needed to be aware of the specific investment 
portfolio intended for Mr M. Without this information, it would not be in any position to assess 
the suitability of either the OPS transfer or the PPP switch. For example, Portafina has 
argued that Mr M was not invested in line with his risk profile in his existing PPP. However, 
there would be no benefit to him switching and incurring new advice charges if the funds 
Firm C proposed were available on his existing platform. Without knowing how the SIPP was 
to be invested, Portafina could not say with any certainty that it was necessary for Mr M to 
switch his PPP to the new platform.I accept that as a result of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Ms appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mr Ms best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of 
where Mr Ms funds would be invested. 
Portafina has argued that the FCA has recently introduced provisions where both firms are 
regulated and that current guidance places the obligation solely on the firm giving the 
investment advice to take into account of any loss of safeguarded benefits on the retail 
clients ability to take on investment risk. But I dont think this applies here. The specific 
guidance it quoted is from COBS 19.1.6A(4)  but this only came into effect in October 2018. 
At the time of the advice, August 2014, COBS 19.1.6 did not provide for this scenario. In any 
event, I think the alerts from 2013 and 2014 were unambiguous that firms recommending a 
transfer had to consider the underlying investments. There was no implied exemption where 
other regulated firms were involved.
The reality is that having followed Portafinas transfer advice, over 50% of Mr Ms SIPP was 
invested in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings are relevant here. It said that as 
well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain customers (generally sophisticated, 
high net worth investors), as an example, even when a customer was deemed eligible for the 
promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a client's exposure to these investments 
to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In Mr Ms case over half his SIPP, 56%, was 
invested in UCIS. I dont think UCIS was suitable for Mr M at all, let alone in the proportion 
invested. Theres nothing to indicate Mr M had the requisite knowledge or experience to 
accept or understand the risks associated with these types of investments.
It is worth restating that Portafinas own model portfolio included an allocation of 15% of 
assets into secured structured bonds, which are UCIS like funds. This would not be 
appropriate for Mr M, even if he had an adventurous ATR. Therefore, even if Firm C had 
invested Mr M in line with Portafinas expectations, it still would have been unsuitable.
In my view, if Portafina had requested information about the proposed investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest over 50% of Mr Ms funds in UCIS, it couldve queried 
this, given how at odds it was with what it determined an appropriate asset allocation for 
Mr M was.  
I dont agree with Portafinas assessment of Mr Ms risk rating as adventurous and will 
explain why later. However, I think that had appropriate enquiries been made, it wouldve 
become apparent something was amiss with Firms Cs proposal and that the transfer was 
therefore unsuitable and likely to lead to Mr M being exposed to more risk than Portafina 
considered appropriate. I think its likely that, having realised how significantly the 
investments Firm C intended to make differed from those it had based its suitability 
assessment on, Portafina couldve taken preventative action or at the very least made Mr M 
aware of the situation so he could, if servicing rights had already been transferred to Firm C, 
sought to take corrective action himself. 
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr M. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have 
advised Mr M that it couldnt recommend he transfer away from his OPS in those 
circumstances. If Portafina had warned Mr M against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, 
I think its more likely than not that Mr M wouldve listened to it and not gone ahead with the 
transfer. In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr M when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course of action it recommended was being made on a 
sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings, it seems to me that Firm C was in effect 
given the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how Mr Ms SIPP was invested.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Ms funds were ultimately invested. Portafinas recommendation that he 
transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the 
transfer and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding this, Im not 
persuaded Mr M wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as he did.
The advice to transfer
OPSs typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension income to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS guidance 
(COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
So, the starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. Generally, a transfer will 
only be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable prospect that the new 
arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will also need to be suitable, 
taking into account the individuals particular circumstances.
At the time of Portafinas advice Mr M was 46 years old, employed and in good health. He 
was a standard retail investor with at 19 years until his normal retirement age and 14 years 
from the earliest point he thought he might be able to retire. Mr M could not access his 
benefits until age 55 at the earliest, which was still nine years away. He lived in rented 
accommodation, had minimal cash savings and no investments. He held a PPP valued at 
around £24,500, which was less than a third of the CETV of his OPS.
It seems to me Mr Ms OPS was his most valuable asset. It provided a guaranteed income at 
retirement with increases and, if no TFC was taken, would pay as much as his state pension, 
effectively doubling his income in retirement. Based on this I think Portafina should have 
recognised the significance of Mr Ms OPS and proceeded with caution.
Transferring his OPS meant that Mr M would be losing his guarantees and instead relying on 
investment performance from a new scheme. But I dont think his situation lent itself to taking 
such risks. I think it shouldve been clear that while Mr M may have been open to taking 
some risk, he wasnt prepared or able to take a significant amount. 
The report showed that a critical yield of 9.3% per year was required to match benefits from
the OPS. While it appears to take account of the initial and ongoing adviser charges, it does 
not make any allowance for the plan, fund or any other ongoing charges. This meant the 
growth needed just to match the benefits being given up was most likely understated. Like
the investigator, I feel the growth required to provide an increase in benefits for Mr M was 
too high to make the transfer viable.Furthermore, and as the regulator has made plain, when considering whether to make a
personal recommendation to transfer away from a defined benefit scheme, a firm should not
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the defined
benefits pension scheme as sufficient in itself (COBS 19.1.7B G). In light of that, I think its
important to again emphasise that the starting point for the transfer advice in this case ought 
to have been that it was unsuitable. So I think Portafina ought to have made Mr M aware that 
it was in his best interest to preserve his OPS benefits.
The advice was given at a time when there were no industry standard projection rates to
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being achieved. But at the time the regulators
assumed future growth rates for personal pensions illustrations were 2% (lower); 5%
(intermediate); and 8% (higher). So even if the personal pension had achieved the highest
maximum growth at that time, it was unlikely Mr M would receive a materially higher pension
at retirement as a result of transferring. This is supported in the suitability report where
Portafina estimated that, based on Mr Ms adventurous ATR, his personal pension would 
grow at a rate of 6.76% before charges.
Portafina based its recommendation on the lifetime hurdle rate of 5.77% instead of the 
critical yield, saying this was a more accurate means of measuring the ceding schemes 
benefits and was appropriate for Mr M, as he was not going to take an annuity at retirement. 
Based on his adventurous ATR, Portafinas model portfolio showed he could match the 
benefits being given up.
I do not accept this argument, as it ignores the importance of the critical yield in 
demonstrating the value of the benefits being given up. Furthermore, Portafina has not 
offered any reason as to why Mr M did not want to secure a guaranteed income in 
retirement. I dont think Mr Ms alleged dislike for annuities (as recorded in the fact find) was 
explored in any meaningful sense in the call with the paraplanner. In addition, at the time of 
advice, Mr M was at least 14 years away from his earliest intended retirement age and only 
had the PPP as alternative retirement provision. So, I cannot see how Portafina could say 
with any degree of certainty that he would not want to take an annuity so far from his 
intended retirement age.
Mr M was recorded as having an adventurous ATR, but in my view, there is little available 
evidence to support this classification. 
Portafinas report defines adventurous investors as usually being experienced, who have 
used a wide range of investment products in the past. They have high levels of financial 
knowledge and are willing to take on investment risk. They will readily take gambles and 
accept that occasional poor outcomes are a necessary part of long-term investment.
Mr M had no recorded investment experience and had cash savings of just £2,000. His 
pensions represented almost all of his of private assets. During the call recording Portafina 
provided, Mr M said that he would only be willing to accept a reduction of 10% to his pension 
income in order meet his objectives and he would only accept a short term fall of no more 
than 20% in fund value. Neither of these responses are in line with an adventurous ATR.
I agree with the investigator, that due to the term retirement, Mr M could accept a balanced 
level of risk for his pensions. 
As per the COBS guidance applicable at the time, 19.1.7:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer or pension opt-out, it should 
consider the client's attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that would
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up."Based on the intermediate rate of 5% noted above, not only was the critical yield of 9.3% 
unachievable, but the lower hurdle rate of 5.77% was also above the level of growth which 
I think could reasonably be expected for a balanced/medium risk investor.
I appreciate Mr M was earning a relatively high salary and said that he was going to be 
promoted within the next year, which would increase his income and, presumably his 
pension assets. But I dont think Portafinas advice shouldve been prefaced on the 
possibility of Mr M earning more and being able to build up more pension funds. It was 
unreasonable for Portafina to assume Mr M had a capacity to lose these pension funds 
when his promotion wasnt guaranteed. In any event, it wouldve taken Mr M many years to 
build up a pension fund of this size if he experienced substantial losses by exposing it to 
investment risk. As Mr M was giving up benefits he had no realistic hope of replicating on the 
open market, there needed to be strong reasons to transfer out. In my view, none of the 
reasons listed by Portafina, either individually or collectively, provide sufficient justification for 
the recommendation.
The Key Financial Objectives on page nine of the suitability report listed several objectives, 
which would be met by transferring his pension plans to the SIPP. However, most of these 
were not important to Mr M, as evidenced by the call recording Portafina has provided. 
The suitability report states that Mr M had expressed the opinion that being able to draw 
income from 55 onwards would be a useful benefit. In fact, Mr M made it clear in the call 
recording that did not want or expect to retire before he was 60 at the earliest and he could 
see himself carrying on working until he was 65. He therefore had no need for the ability to 
take income from age 55, especially if he was going to be in receipt of a high salary and 
could be a higher rate tax-payer.
Portafina said in the report that they had discussed taking TFC and Mr M, stated that 
maximising the amount available to you was a significant benefit. You agreed that you would 
be prepared to suffer a reduced pension to maximise tax free cash, provided the reduction 
was reasonable.
During the call, when asked if it was important for him to get the maximum amount of TFC 
from his pension, Mr M replied, not really.
Furthermore, Mr M was only 46 and could not take his benefits for another nine years. If he 
genuinely did want to access his pension funds from age 55, it still would have been suitable 
advice to recommend he stay in his OPS until that age and review his circumstances then, 
rather than expose his assets to investment risk over the intervening period.
As noted by the investigator, Mr M had no need for the higher death benefits from 
transferring and this was not a priority for him. He explained during the call that his 
daughters did not need the additional cover provided and it was not something that he really 
thought about. His final statement on the matter was that, I dont think I would be bothered 
about having better death benefits. 
The only objective noted by Portafina which was not directly contradicted by statements from 
Mr M in the call recording, was the desire to take more control over his pension fund. But this 
reason by itself is not sufficient justification to recommend the transfer. Mr M had no 
recorded investment experience and it is unclear why he wanted personal control over his 
funds, when he would be relying on a third party, Firm C, for investment advice. Mr M made 
it clear in the call that he expected to receive ongoing advice, so there was no identified 
purpose for wanting to manage his own pension funds when he would simply be passing 
these decisions on to another party.Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portafina covered
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability, and in my view Portafina
shouldnt have recommended the transfer at all as it was clearly not in his best interests.
The advice to switch
I know that Mr M was also advised to switch his PPP, which when transferred had a value of 
£24,730.02. But I dont think he wouldve proceeded with the switch of this plan alone to a 
SIPP if he hadnt been advised to transfer his OPS benefits, which constituted the vast 
majority of his retirement funds. Nevertheless, Ive also considered whether this advice was 
suitable for Mr M.
According to the information gathered by Portafina, just over half of the PPP value, 
£13,535.12, was made up of guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) protected rights, which 
would provide a guaranteed income at retirement. Switching these funds to the SIPP meant 
this guaranteed pension was lost. It was not stated what level of pension the GMP provided 
and this may not have been significant, but I think it should have been investigated by 
Portafina before recommending the transfer.
Portafina stated in the report that Mr M could not access his PPP until age 65. This was true 
as far as the GMP benefit was concerned, as this would not be paid until state retirement 
age. However, the remaining share of the pension was made up of non-protected rights, 
which could be accessed from age 55. I cannot see any evidence that Mr M was made 
aware that he was able to withdraw these funds at an earlier age and that he did not need to 
switch to the SIPP to access them.
Portafina has argued that Mr Ms PPP was not invested in line with his risk profile, which it 
had classed as adventurous. At the time of the review, Mr Ms PPP was invested with 
approximately half in a balanced managed fund and half in a cautious lifestyle fund. I would 
view these as being balanced and low risk funds respectively.
As noted above, I do not believe that Mr M had an adventurous ATR and should have been 
classed as a balanced, or medium risk investor. Given this, only one of his funds was not 
invested in line with his attitude to risk, and this could have been switched to the balanced 
managed fund without having to change platforms and incur new charges.
Even if Mr M did have an adventurous ATR and needed to change both his funds, there 
should have been some investigation of whether or not the current provider offered 
alternatives which were suitable for him before switching. Mr M did not have a specified type 
of investment he was looking to move his funds into (e.g. overseas funds, specialised 
investments) and there was no stated intention to invest in funds which were only available 
via a SIPP platform. There is no reason to believe the provider he held his PPP with, a 
relatively large and well known pension firm, would not have an appropriate fund if he 
remained with them. So, I think Portafina should have investigated whether his needs could 
have been met within his existing arrangements.
As noted previously, the 2013 and 2014 alerts applied to pension switches and not just 
transfers, so Portafina had to consider the suitability of the underlying UCIS funds the PPP 
was to be invested in. As these were not suitable investments, I think the recommendation to 
switch the PPP to the SIPP was also unsuitable.
Ive thought about whether, if hed been correctly advised by Portafina, Mr M would have
gone ahead with the transfer and the switch anyway. Having carefully considered all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe he would. Theres nothing to suggest that he was seriously considering transferring out of his OPS prior to being referred to Portafina for a 
pension review. It is clear from the available information that he did not have any reason to 
transfer  he could not take any benefits for at least nine years  and there was no reason to 
switch his PPP to a SIPP when he would be able to invest in line with his ATR by remaining 
with his existing provider.
As a professional adviser which, unlike Firm C, was authorised to provide transfer advice,
Portafinas recommendation wouldve carried significant weight and could, I believe, have
dissuaded Mr M from proceeding with the transfer and subsequent investments. 
Alternatively, had Mr M proceeded against such advice, Portafina couldve discharged its
professional responsibility to him appropriately. For example, it couldve treated him as an
insistent client. However, theres nothing to indicate Mr M wouldve acted against the advice
he was given.
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr M are as a result of the inappropriate
advice provided by Portafina. Had it not been for this unsuitable advice, I dont believe Mr M
would have gone ahead with the transfer of his OPS and PPP, or invested such a large 
share of his fund in UCIS. So, I think Portafina is responsible for his losses.
I recognise that it can be argued Firm C may have also separately caused some of Mr Ms
losses. So, Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for
compensating the loss to Portafina. In the circumstances, though, I think apportioning
responsibility to Portafina for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont
accept that anything Firm C did was an intervening act which absolves Portafina of its
responsibility for Mr Ms losses.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were in a business relationship
in which each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring about a single
outcome for clients - pension-release advice and investment. Because Firm C wasnt
authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mr M to Portafina. Portafina advised
Mr M to transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension benefits
to be transferred. I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr M to invest a significant share of his
SIPP funds in UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portafinas understanding that it could
reasonably limit its advice to just the transfer and the SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider
the proposed investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr M on the investments. It was
only as a result of Portafinas involvement that Mr M transferred the funds held in his OPS 
and PPP to the SIPP. Portafinas role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully 
reliant on the funds being transferred first; if that hadnt happened, Mr M couldnt have 
invested as he did.
Portafina has suggested that as Firm C is no longer trading Mr M can complain to the FSCS 
about the advice it gave him.
Mr M has already made a claim with the FSCS, which was rejected in July 2018. I am aware 
that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont pay out on claims where it is aware that 
another firm was involved in the transaction, and it considers that firm might also be 
responsible for a consumers losses. This means that apportionment of only part of the loss 
to Portafina could risk leaving Mr M out of pocket. But I think its important to point out that 
Im not saying Portafina is wholly responsible for the losses simply because Firm S and 
Firm C are now in liquidation. My starting point as to causation is that Portafina gave 
unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses Mr M suffered in transferring his 
existing benefits to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind, wrong in law or 
irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position. 
So, overall, I think apportioning responsibility to Portafina for the whole of the loss represents 
fair compensation in this case.Putting things right
Mr Ms OPS
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portafina to put Mr M, as far as possible, into
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have
remained in the OPS. Portafina must therefore undertake a  redress calculation in line with 
the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision. 
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain
Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date
Portafina receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes
Portafina to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
For Mr Ms PPP:
To compensate Mr M fairly, Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance. 
If Portafina is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age  20%. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr M £250 for the trouble caused by transferring Mr M's pensions to an 
unsuitable plan.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Portafina should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP mixedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
transferdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Portafina may require that Mr M provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
A copy of Portafinas calculations should be provided to Mr Ms representative.
As Ive said, my aim is to return Mr M to the position he would have been in but for the
actions of Portafina. This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot
be readily sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the
case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the
calculations should include anything Portafina has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding
charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr M to provide an undertaking to account to it for the
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portafina will need to meet
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina asks Mr M to provide an undertaking,
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that
undertaking.
If Portafina had given suitable advice Mr M wouldnt have the SIPP. So, the SIPP only exists 
because of the investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed (should Mr M wish to move 
his investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments need to be 
removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portafina taking 
over the investments, or this is something that Mr M can discuss with his SIPP provider 
directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If any
investment cant be removed, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portafina
pay Mr M an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using
the previous years fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange
for the SIPP to be closed.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I can only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr M the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts my final decision, the money award is binding on Portal Financial Services 
LLP. My recommendation is not binding on Portal Financial Services LLP.
Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mr M may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP to pay compensation as set 
out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman