DRN-2930267
The complaint
Mrs G, through her representative, complains about investment advice and service she 
received from St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP). 
What happened
Mrs G says that in 2013 she was contacted by her financial adviser who told her that he was 
moving to SJP and hed like to take her business with him. She says they had an initial 
meeting in a car in a supermarket car park as the adviser told her he didnt want to have 
meeting at her residence. She thinks there were one or two meetings at that initial stage, but 
no further meetings since that time. 
The adviser recommended that she surrender her existing Scottish Widows Bond and move 
the funds into an SJP International Investment Bond and ISA. Mrs G accepted the 
recommendation and the investments were put in place. In 2020 Mrs Gs representative 
complained on her behalf to SJP and said, in summary:
In the information hed received from SJP, there were two letters on file from the 
adviser to Mrs G  the 7 November 2019 letter summarising the discussions during 
the review of her plans on 29 October 2019 and the 7 January 2020 letter 
summarising the meeting of 18 December 2019. However, neither of these meetings 
took place and these letters were not sent to Mrs G. The letters were a complete 
fabrication and invented by the adviser to satisfy SJPs required compliance.
As Mrs G was a vulnerable client (due to her age at the time of the initial advice), a 
third party should have been involved. The adviser stated that one of Mrs Gs 
daughters would fulfil this role but then went on to say that as she lived in another 
town, she couldnt be involved and carried on anyway. There wasnt any evidence on 
file to demonstrate Mrs Gs daughters involvement, especially at the crucial 
implementation stage.
The adviser said that one of the main reasons that Mrs G wanted to transfer her 
Scottish Widows investments to SJP was service. And in the initial recommendation 
letter, he said he would provide regular service. But she hadnt had any meetings 
with him since 2013 and there was no documentary evidence that Mrs Gs file had 
been reviewed. Therefore, it could be concluded that no service whatsoever had 
been provided, despite an ongoing service fee being paid and a promise to do so at 
the time of the transfer. 
The adviser transferred Mrs G from a cautiously managed fund to a much higher risk 
fund. This was totally inappropriate advice for someone who was 83.
There had been no risk assessment completed or evidence on file to support 
increasing Mrs Gs risk level. The only justification was a chat between her and the 
adviser with no third-party present. 
COBS required the adviser to document the client's knowledge and experience in 
relation to investing. There was no such evidence on the file. For someone of Mrs 
Gs age the adviser should have fully explained her ability to understand the 
investment advice she received.
Of equal concern, was Mrs Gs capacity for loss. The adviser said there were no 
issues, but her funds were to provide a place for her to live if she had to move. As the 
funds were required to provide a roof over her head, capacity for loss was close to 
maximum and the amount of risk from this point of view, totally unacceptable.
The cost comparison was totally inadequate. Mrs G hadnt been made aware of the 
huge increase in cost caused by the transfer and it wasnt made clear in the adviser's 
reasons why letter, he simply said there was an increase in cost with no meaningful 
details, let alone any justification.
As a vulnerable client, there should have been evidence that Mrs G had understood 
the advice, the increased fees and charges, the increased risk profile and the 
consequences of the switch. There was no evidence that she ever understood what 
had gone on. Had the adviser undertaken the necessary due diligence and treated 
Mrs G fairly and involved her family, this situation would never had occurred.
The adviser breached the FCA commission disclosure rules in that his fees were not 
detailed in pounds and pence in the reasons why letter.
The subject of Inheritance Tax planning had not been recorded and not been fully 
detailed within the initial report. Mrs G had several daughters and grandchildren at 
the time of the advice, so this should have been covered.
The advice provided regarding choice of product was highly questionable. The full 
annual ISA allowance was not fully utilised each tax year. If the funds had been 
placed in a unit trust portfolio and the ISA allowance transferred each year, most if 
not all of the portfolio would now be in an ISA. Furthermore, the utilisation of an 
Offshore Bond meant her capital gains tax allowance each year was not being 
utilised. Any gain now is subject to tax which would have been avoided if the correct 
advice had been provided.
In conclusion, there was no justification for Mrs G's transfer of investments, other 
than to provide remuneration for the adviser. He had mistreated a vulnerable client, 
applied totally inappropriate risk for which he has demonstrated no form of 
measurement, he has shown a complete misunderstanding of capacity for loss, has 
not adhered to FCA rules, and had fabricated meetings and letters.
SJP investigated the concerns Mrs G had raised and upheld her complaint. They thought 
that shed been given unsuitable advice and offered to put her back in the position she 
should have been in by comparing the performance of her investments to a suitable 
benchmark.
They also said theyd asked the adviser if hed carried out any reviews with Mrs G and hed 
said that he had regularly reviewed Mrs Gs investments. However, they couldnt find any 
written evidence of this and as a gesture of goodwill offered to refund the ongoing advice 
fees Mrs G had paid. They also offered a payment of £500 to reflect the trouble and upset 
caused as a result of having to bring the matter to their attention.
Mrs G disagreed with their findings and asked this service to investigate her complaint. She 
thought that SJPs response lacked credibility and omitted many points which she wouldve 
expected to have been addressed. She questioned why theyd said that theyd said they 
were unable to get information from Scottish Widows when shed been able to get the 
information without any difficulty. 
She also questioned why their FRL had made references to the adviser who was 
responsible for this complaint due to his behaviour and who she thought was unfit to be in 
the industry. Hed fabricated non-existent meetings, letters, and file notes and therefore 
lacked integrity and credibility, so whatever hed said couldnt be believed or taken into 
account. 
She noted that SJP had avoided commenting on the fabricated letters and meetings and 
didnt accept the redress calculations and the benchmarks theyd selected. She also didnt understand how theyd calculated the refund of the ongoing fees as their charges were never 
fully disclosed. She thought an additional payment for stress was justified. And she also 
thought that her representative should be paid for the time hed spent looking into the matter 
for her. 
Her complaint was considered by one of our investigators who thought, in summary:
Having reviewed the available evidence, he was persuaded that Mrs G was unhappy 
with the service she was receiving and therefore looking to switch providers at the 
time. It was recorded that she wanted her funds to grow and generate additional 
income in case she required care or needed to move out of her daughters home. 
A complaint would not be upheld based on age alone. There were many elderly 
people who were able to make financial decisions of their own. 
The FCA guidance regarding safeguarding vulnerable investors came into force in 
July 2019 and an adviser can only be judged by the rules and regulations which 
applied at the time advice was given. 
Mrs G was living with her daughter and had the option to discuss her investments 
with her daughter at that time or with any other relative. 
Mrs G had previously said that she didnt think she should have received investment 
advice in the first place. Shed said the adviser had called her and asked her to move 
her investments from Scottish Widows to SJP, rather than Mrs G contacting him. 
However, the fact find and suitability letter refer repeatedly to Mrs Gs unhappiness 
with the service she was receiving from Scottish Widows. He was therefore satisfied 
that she wanted to transfer her investments to a different provider.
At no point was it recorded that inheritance tax planning was a priority for Mrs G. 
Also, the inheritance tax free allowance has been set at £325,000 since April 2009. 
Because the sum of Mrs Gs total assets was considerably lower than this, he wasnt 
convinced that the adviser should have discussed a need that did not exist at that 
time.
Taking everything into account, the advice was unsuitable for Mrs G, but the redress 
methodology that SJP proposed to put things right, was fair and reasonable. 
He noted that this service wouldnt usually recommend that advisers fees should be 
awarded above the redress offered. This was because they are most often taken out 
of the investment directly, so they would have already been factored in to the 
calculations. But in this case SJP have offered to refund the advisers fees on top of 
the settlement theyve put forward regarding the suitability of the advice. 
Therefore, in his opinion the offer proposed was fair and reasonable, and exceeded 
the level of redress our service would usually award.
He appreciated that Mrs G would be disappointed with the outcome as shed 
previously indicated that she felt it didnt adequately redress the poor service shed 
received.
He noted the comments regarding the nature of the meeting that the adviser had with 
Mrs G, but our service was unable punish or fine businesses. That duty fell on the 
regulator (the FCA). So, hed instead assessed what should have happened if 
nothing had gone wrong. In Mrs Gs case, where the respondent had already upheld 
the complaint, his main concern was making sure that the remedy theyd put forward 
was correct, as he thought it was here.
Mrs G didnt accept his findings. She asked that an ombudsman review the complaint and 
take the following points into consideration which Ive summarised below:
SJPs outcome was unequivocal - "Having reviewed all of the above, I have upheld 
your complaint". In other words, they did not question one aspect of the complaint and the rest of the reply dealt with how much compensation they were prepared to 
pay.
The investigator completely ignored the fact that the adviser fabricated two meetings 
which never took place and made up "Review Meeting" notes and two letters to Mrs 
G. SJP chose not to comment by simply upholding the complaint in its entirety.
The adviser  based on the available evidence  wasnt a fit and proper person and 
in a court of law would be classified as an "unreliable witness" and his evidence 
discounted. Therefore, all of his forms and statements should have been more 
closely questioned and not taken as written evidence. 
Mrs Gs only reason for moving to SJP was because she was telephoned by the 
adviser and persuaded to move so he could churn her investments and earn fees. 
The reasons he provided for the move were for the benefit of his compliance file and 
were totally questionable.
The investigator said that the FCA guidance on vulnerable investors only came into 
force in July 2019 so can't be backdated. However, the situation was already covered 
by four FCA principles which the adviser clearly breached: principle 6 - treating 
customers fairly, principle 9 - customers: relationships of trust, principle 1  integrity, 
principle 2 - acting with skill and care and diligence
Shed submitted a part of SJPs "sales submission form" that was heavily stamped 
"elderly client". There was also an exchange of emails between SJPs compliance 
Department and the adviser regarding the initial submission discussing risk for 
elderly clients. This showed SJP recognised the significance of elderly vulnerable 
clients even if the investigator didnt.
The main element of the complaint shed like reviewed was the subject of initial 
commission. This was completely ignored by the investigator. SJP upheld the 
complaint in its entirety, a part of which was that this switch should not have taken 
place and was inappropriate for not one but several reasons. Therefore, if the switch 
should not have taken place there was no justification for SJP to retain the initial 
commission just as there was no justification for them retaining the ongoing renewal 
fees which they agreed to refund. If the initial fee was refunded, then that would be a 
fair outcome for Mrs G.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Gs representative has made many points to support her complaint, which I have read 
and considered in their entirety. I appreciate he has strong feelings about this matter. I hope
he will not be offended that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues. 
The purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I note he has made several points about the way the adviser conducted himself and his 
fitness to perform his role. However, most of these matters fall outside the remit of this 
service. Instead, they should be referred to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. I 
think it may be helpful to point out that its not our role to punish businesses. 
Where something has gone wrong, we look at the impact its had on a consumer and 
whether what the business has done to put things right is fair and reasonable. So, in this 
decision, Ive considered the impact of the advice provided to Mrs G and the subsequent 
level of service she received from SJP.  SJP have accepted that the advice they provided to Mrs G was unsuitable as the level of risk 
was too high for her circumstances at the time. In order to put things right theyve compared 
the performance of Mrs Gs investment with a benchmark that reflects the level of risk that 
they think she should have taken  in this instance a low level of risk. 
The resulting comparison showed that there was no loss on Mrs Gs Investment Bond and a 
loss of around £45 on her ISA. Theyve offered to compensate her for any losses shes 
incurred due to the advice she received. Our investigator also checked to see what Mrs Gs 
investment would have been worth if it had remained with Scottish Widows. This showed 
that her current investments were around £14,000 higher than if shed kept her original 
investment. Its clear that she hasnt lost out due to the approach theyve taken to provide 
redress, Im satisfied that the approach is fair and reasonable and in line with what this 
service would have awarded if wed upheld the complaint.
SJP have also offered to refund the ongoing advice fees as theres no evidence to suggest 
Mrs G had any service since 2013. I think this is also fair and reasonable compensation and 
I wont be asking them to do any more in respect of this point. As the investigator has 
pointed out - the calculation also takes into account ongoing fees that have been deducted 
from Mrs Gs investments. So, by SJP offering a full refund of the ongoing advice fees then 
theyve already gone above what this service would have awarded in similar circumstances.
Mrs Gs representative has said that the initial commission should be refunded and given his 
supporting reasons. I appreciate the points hes made and its clear that he feels very 
strongly about this point. Im sorry to disappoint him but I dont think it should be refunded. I 
say this because the compensation calculation SJP performed took into account the entire 
sum of money Mrs G invested  before any deductions for the initial fee were taken. Scottish 
Widows confirmed that Mrs G surrendered her investments for £115,253.04 and I can see 
that SJP based their calculations on the total amount invested of £115,000. 
The calculation compared the performance of the total amount Mrs G invested against the 
benchmark, not the performance of the net amount invested (the total less any initial fees). 
Therefore, I dont think I can fairly ask SJP to refund the initial fee as its already been 
included in the calculation to put things right and as Ive said above  Im satisfied with the 
approach that SJP have taken.
SJP have accepted that theyve caused Mrs G caused distress. In the circumstances, I think 
its fair that they should compensate Mrs G. I think the sum of £500 theyve offered is fair 
and reasonable when considered with the around £4,700 theyve refunded in fees  which 
as Ive explained above, was already taken into account by the redress calculation.
I appreciate my decision isnt what Mrs G will want to hear. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im not going to ask SJP to do any more than what theyve already proposed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I think the offer made by St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc is fair and reasonable. Its now down to Mrs G to choose to accept it or not.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman