DRN-2755185
The complaint
Mr L complains about the information provided to him by Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd 
which he says was misleading and caused him financial loss.
What happened
Mr L had a Stocks and Shares Individual Savings Account (the account) with Vanguard. 
On 23 March 2020 he submitted two trades for two different funds  one at 11:05am and the 
other at 11:07am. 
Mr Ls trades didnt meet Vanguards dealing deadline time of 11am, which would have 
meant hed get the same day unit price. As a result the fund units were purchased for the 
unit price applicable the next day (24 March 2020). Mr L complained to Vanguard saying the 
prospectus cut off time of 12pm should apply. 
Vanguard rejected Mr Ls complaint. It said whilst the cut off time for the funds themselves 
was 12pm its dealing deadline was 11am, as it needed time to collate all the orders before 
it forwarded them on the Administrator and Registrar of the relevant fund.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In brief, he considered the times stated by 
Vanguard on its website, did make it clear the dealing deadline time was 11am.
Mr L disagreed. He said he thought the prospectus and the information on Vanguards 
website was confusing and contradictory. He said he should be able to rely on the 
prospectus which is the legal document relating to the funds. Mr L asked for an 
ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted all the representations made by Mr L, but I wont be addressing every 
single point hes raised. Ive instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the 
outcome of his complaint. Having reviewed everything, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Mr L considers hes entitled to rely on the prospectus timings. But the arrangement he has 
with Vanguard doesnt give instant dealing as with buying or selling FTSE 100 shares 
through a stockbroker. Vanguard pools its orders and then deals with the matter in one hit. In 
practice, this means Vanguard operates an earlier cut off time than the funds it offers. I dont 
think this is unfair in itself. The important point is the information it provides is clear to those 
wanting to place trades.
In its terms and conditions Vanguard say if an account holder misses the dealing deadline, it 
will go through the next day, which is what happened in Mr Ls case. The dealing cut off time 
for the funds in question was 12pm  the prospectus said this was the time the trade request 
needed to reach the Administrator and Registrar of the relevant fund. But Vanguard also has 
its own dealing deadline time of 11am. This was clearly set out on the overview webpage for 
each fund. The webpages also signposted customers to Vanguards help and support page 
for more information. This page, amongst other things, says:
2. What are your cut off times for placing deals? Our deadlines for same-day deals are on 
our website. You can find them on the right-hand side of each individual fund page. Our cut 
off times for same-day deals are an hour before the dealing point stated in the fund 
prospectus (the formal legal document outlining the fund details). You can find the 
prospectus on the individual fund page. Choose the fund you want information on, then 
scroll to the bottom of the page. It's under Documents on the right hand side.
Whilst I understand where Mr L is coming, on balance, I think he was provided with 
sufficiently clear information to make an informed choice about when he placed his trades. 
The dealing deadline for each fund was clearly set out on the relevant overview webpages 
 in order to access the prospectus he needed to access these webpages first. If Mr L had 
any doubts about why the times on the overview pages differed from the times stated in the 
prospectus, there was more information on Vanguards Help and support page. This 
section clarified the position where it said: cut of times for same-day deals are an hour 
before the dealing point stated in the fund prospectus.
Vanguards records show Mr L visited each overview webpage before he decided to trade. 
Each overview section had the Dealing deadline 11am notice clearly displayed. Mr L then 
placed his trades shortly after this time. All in all, I think the information provided to Mr L 
before he decided to place his trades, was clear, fair and not misleading. And was readily 
available to him.
Mr L says the situation is made worse because the words cut off are used by both the 
Administrators of the funds and Vanguard. Whilst I understand Mr Ls frustration with the 
information he was provided with, on balance, for the reasons outlined above, I think 
Vanguard has acted fairly and reasonably in his case. So I wont be upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman