DRN-2622942
complaint
This complaint is about two single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out alongside two personal loans in August 2002 and October 2002. Mrs S says 
Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
The policies had a one-off upfront premium that was paid in advance by being added to the 
loans (a single premium) where they attracted interest over the term of the loans and the 
policy terms matched that of the loans. 
The policies provided cover for Mrs S for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs Ss monthly loan repayment 
for the remaining term of the loan in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months 
in the event of unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out. While Nationwide hasnt provided me with a loan application form for either 
sale, it has provided me with the loan agreements that Mrs S signed. These were 
identical to each other and set out the total loan amount, the interest, the total payable 
and the monthly payment of the loan. In another column beside this, it said optional 
credit insurance, meaning the PPI, and also set out the loan amount for the PPI, the 
interest, total payable and the monthly payments. So I think it was clear that the PPI was 
a separate, optional product that she had opted to take. Below this, it said that Mrs S had 
requested to be covered for disability, unemployment and life. Having carefully 
considered these loan agreements, I think its more likely Mrs S chose to take out the 
PPI, knowing she didnt have to.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S - so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs S enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. It doesnt appear that the cover was fundamentally wrong for Mrs S. 
Mrs S has said that she worked part time, and that she worked for less than 16 hours, so 
was concerned she couldnt have claimed on the policy. The policy does define work as 
at least 16 hours per week. Nationwide has said that its information about Mrs S shows 
she was working 17.5 hours per week, so we contacted Mrs S representative to query 
this. It responded to say it hadnt been able to get in contact with Mrs S. We then asked 
Mrs S about this directly, but still received no response. As theres conflicting 
information, without further clarification, I havent been able to consider this further. 
Overall, the policy wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying 
from the information she was given. There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health or back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this, I dont think 
Mrs S would have declined the cover had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs S would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to do anything to put things right.my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman