DRN-3629034
The complaint
Mr P complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Niche Independent Financial 
Advisers Limited (Niche) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded 
benefits in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Mr P is represented in this complaint by a law firm (the Representative).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his
assessment which he provided to both the Representative and Niche. I dont intend to repeat 
here what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mr Ps employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel 
closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. Under the 
announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension scheme, the 
BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr P, 
under the Time to Choose exercise. This explained that BSPS members had three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr P to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. 
Members had to decide which option they wanted by 22 December 2017  those that didnt 
choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF. The 
details of Mr Ps safeguarded benefits in the BSPS at that time were as follows:
He had accrued 20 years and 6 months qualifying service between September 1996 
and March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, pensionable service 
and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017, his 
annual scheme pension was £11,985.11. The scheme pension comprised several 
elements, each part of which would be revalued by a prescribed amount over the 
term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, once in payment, would 
escalate annually by a prescribed amount. 
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS was £22,542 
at age 65 and £18,529 at age 57;
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £303,377.14. 
Mr P was concerned about what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of 
his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. He didnt trust Tata Steels intentions and considered 
that the transfer value offered was too good to turn down. So he decided that he wanted to 
transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits away to a new private arrangement. He 
contacted Niche to obtain advice and to facilitate the transaction. He initially met one of its 
advisers in October 2017. A fact find document and attitude to risk questionnaire were 
completed which recorded the following information about Mr P:
He was aged 39, in good health, single and had two financially dependent children 
aged 21 and 3. He was cohabiting with his girlfriend but their finances were kept 
separate. He had no plans to marry;
He was employed by Tata Steel and was paid gross annual income of about 
£42,000. He intended to continue working in the steel industry until retirement. He 
ideally wanted to retire at age 57. His desired level of income at that age wasnt 
recorded. He expected to receive the full state pension at age 68;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he had been a 
member of Tata Steels defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since                   
March 2017. The total annual contribution into his DC plan was 16% of his gross 
annual salary. This would increase in line with changes to his salary. As at                    
October 2017, his DC pension plan was valued at about £2,000;
Other than his residential home and pension arrangements, he didnt have any 
savings or investments;
His liabilities comprised a mortgage of £41,000 on his residential home which was 
due to be repaid in about 12 years time in 2029 and credit card debt of about £3,000;
His risk profile was determined to be Cautious Balanced.
In the fact find document, Niche recorded that Mr P had several objectives attached to his 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, as follows:
1/ Death benefits with a personal pension are a major factor given he is not married
2/ Wants to benefit from market growth between now and retirement3/ Wants option to flexibly access his pension as he wishes from age of 57
4/ Wants to utilise his funds while he is young
In November 2017, Niche issued a suitability report to Mr P recommending that he transfer 
the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to a PPP and invest it in different 
proportions in two funds to align with his Cautious Balanced risk profile. It confirmed the 
reasons why it recommended a transfer to a PPP in favour of the PPF and BSPS2 options 
for the following reasons:
You will have complete control over the pension, how it is invested, and the level of 
income you withdraw from it from age 57 or later.
This will allow you to achieve your goal of retiring from the steel industry at age 57, 
allowing you to withdraw as you wish.
You will be free to nominate who you choose to receive any remaining benefits after 
your death, giving more flexible death benefits for both your partner and children.
If your plan were to go into the PPF, which is a concern of yours, the required critical 
yield would be reduced to 4.37%. Again, whilst there are no guarantees, this is not 
unachievable.
Mr P accepted the recommendation. The transfer to the PPP provider was completed on               
19 December 2017. The costs associated with the recommendation were set out in Niches 
suitability report, as follows:
Initial charge
£5,000  initial adviser charge payable to Niche
Ongoing annual charges deducted from PPP fund value 
£750 adviser charge payable to Niche
0.35% product charge
0.435% weighted average fund charges
In May 2018, Niche issued a second suitability report to Mr P. The report explained that, 
following an internal audit, it had identified its first suitability report didnt adequately detail 
the reasons Mr P had given for wanting to transfer away from the BSPS. The report then 
went on to specify those reasons in greater detail before going on to make the same 
recommendation that Mr P transfer to a PPP for the same reasons as stated in its first 
suitability report. 
This complaint
In 2021, the Representative, on behalf of Mr P, complained to Niche about the suitability of 
its pension transfer advice. Niche didnt uphold this complaint. This was because it was 
satisfied that its advice had met its strict processes, took into consideration Mr Ps financial 
situation and enabled him to be in a position to achieve his specific objectives. It remained 
satisfied that Mr P was now in the position he wanted to be in when he first sought advice 
from Niche.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This 
was because he thought that Niches recommendation to transfer wasnt in Mr Ps best interests and was therefore unsuitable. He reasoned that Mr P was over 17 years away from 
his preferred retirement age of 57, so there wasnt any urgency to transfer away at that time, 
particularly since there was insufficient clarity about what his circumstances and retirement 
income needs would be so far into the future. In addition, he wasnt persuaded that it was 
suitable for Mr P, who was an inexperienced investor, to relinquish guaranteed income and 
instead take on the investment risks associated with the pension transfer to a PPP.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Niche carry out a redress calculation 
in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that Mr P opted for the BSPS2 and 
would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, he recommended that Niche pay              
Mr P £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unsuitable 
recommendation.
The Representative, on behalf of Mr P, responded and stated that it agreed with the uphold
outcome. It agreed that the BSPS2 should be used for comparison purposes and on the
basis that Mr P would likely take benefits at age 65. It requested that Niche be directed to 
provide to it a breakdown of the loss assessment in a simple, easily understandable format.
Niche didnt accept our investigators assessment and requested that this complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. It stated that it believed it had sufficiently presented 
the relevant options to Mr P, which was clearly detailed in the paperwork. And that it 
considered his objectives to have been clear and specific rather than vague, as suggested 
by our investigator. As a result, it remained satisfied that its advice was suitable to meet               
Mr Ps objectives.
While waiting for this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman, our investigator contacted
the parties in connection with the FCAs consultation launched on 2 August 2022 regarding
new pension transfer redress guidance. The investigator asked the Representative to
confirm with Mr P that in the event this complaint is ultimately upheld, whether he preferred
redress to be calculated on the current methodology or the updated guidance expected to be
implemented in early 2023. The investigator told the Representative that if we didnt receive
an answer that wed assume Mr P would prefer redress on the current methodology set out
in Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable
DB pension transfers. As at the date of this final decision, the Representative didnt confirm
which option Mr P preferred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by Niche and the Representative on behalf of Mr P. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidanceNiche was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it provided its recommendation 
to Mr P. This meant that when it advised him it was required to follow the rules and consider 
the guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in the FCAs 
Handbook.
Primarily, Niche was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and professionally 
in accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr P. The suitability 
rules and guidance that applied when Niche provided its recommendation to Mr P were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that businesses take 
reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure 
theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objectives and 
risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 
9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its
advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a
regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mr Ps case  these were contained in                    
COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, whererelevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of Niches recommendation, its necessary for me to have due
regard to the FCAs rules and guidance.
Mr Ps situation
The situation for Mr P wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr P. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr P had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, Niche.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr P to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the 
BSPS2. For deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr P, the PPF 
would provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued
pension, a higher level of spouses pension (in the event Mr P was married at retirement) 
and the option to transfer to an alternative pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later 
date when needs could be determined with greater accuracy than at 39  the PPF didnt 
offer these additional features.
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr P still had the option to retain guaranteed 
benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2. Due to his age and circumstances, its my view Mr Pwouldve been better off choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF. Given the FCAs view on 
safeguarded benefits and what was known at that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion 
that Niche shouldve started its advice process by assuming the BSPS2 was likely to be the 
most suitable option for Mr P and to only recommend a transfer to the PPP if it could clearly 
demonstrate it was in his best interests.
Niches advice to Mr P
In the fact find document completed in October 2017, Niche recorded that Mr P had several 
objectives attached to his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, as follows:
1/ Death benefits with a personal pension are a major factor given he is not married
2/ Wants to benefit from market growth between now and retirement
3/ Wants option to flexibly access his pension as he wishes from age of 57
4/ Wants to utilise his funds while he is young
This was re-confirmed in Niches suitability report given to Mr P in November 2017 before it 
went on to recommend that he transfer to a PPP to achieve these objectives.
So the motivating factors for the pension transfer were changing the format of death benefits 
and to provide the opportunity for flexibility and early retirement. Ive considered these 
objectives in greater detail in the sections below.
Before I go on, I want to deal with the two suitability reports Niche issued to Mr P, firstly in 
November 2017 and then in May 2018. Niche issued the second suitability report because it 
said it didnt adequately detail in its first report the reasons Mr P had given for wanting to 
transfer away from the BSPS. The second report contained more detail and analysis. 
However, it was issued to Mr P in May 2018 several months after the transaction completed 
on 19 December 2017. In my view, for the second suitability report to carry any relevance in 
Mr Ps decision making, it shouldve been sent to him before the pension transfer was 
completed. Sending it to him several months after the event rendered it irrelevant. This is 
because Mr Ps decision to transfer was based on the advice and suitability report given to 
him by Niche in November 2017 before the transaction was completed. So, for the purposes 
of making a decision on this complaint, Ive decided to disregard the content in the second 
suitability report issued in May 2018 since it had no bearing on Mr Ps decision to transfer.
In responding to this complaint, Niche stated it had made Mr P aware of the risks associated 
with the pension transfer including that he would likely be financially worse off. But that he 
wanted to access his safeguarded benefits in a different format than that provided by the 
BSPS and so, in his circumstances, the critical yield was irrelevant. It said that its cashflow 
modelling showed the PPP could meet Mr Ps income needs from age 57. It also said that a 
key factor underpinning its advice was the fact that Mr P had stated he had no plans to 
marry his partner, meaning the spouses pension available under the BSPS2 wasnt relevant 
and so he preferred the flexible benefits offered by a PPP. In addition, he didnt trust Tata 
Steels intentions and considered that the transfer value offered was too good to turn down. 
It said that it was satisfied that its advice met Mr Ps objectives.
I recognise that Mr Ps safeguarded benefits was ultimately his money to do with as he saw 
fit. However, he was relying on Niche to provide expert, balanced information and advice, 
taking into account all the information available to it at that time  so that he could then make 
an informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial 
advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or 
DB pension scheme but, as the professional party, Niche was tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available 
options. In my view, disclosure of risks isnt the same as suitability. In other words, just because 
Niche told Mr P that hed likely be financially worse off and disclosed other risks, doesnt 
absolve it from any responsibility for the suitability of the transaction. In my view, financial 
planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever course of action a client 
wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action to be unsuitable for their 
client, or otherwise not in their best interests, it has a choice not to facilitate the transaction.
Transfer value analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction. The transfer value analysis system 
(TVAS) rules applied at the time Niche advised Mr P. This required it to carry out a transfer 
value analysis to calculate the critical yield applicable to the proposed transfer. The critical 
yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the invested transfer value, after 
charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the DB pension scheme on 
the assumption that the value of the alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity 
at the scheme normal retirement age  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the 
alternative pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the revalued pension 
payable by the DB pension scheme.
In its suitability report issued in November 2017, Niche quoted the following critical yield 
figures to Mr P:
Scheme At age 65 based on taking a full pension
BSPS 5.96%
PPF 4.37%
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 werent calculated. But it was known at the time 
Niche advised Mr P that the BSPS2 would pay a higher level of benefits than the PPF but 
lower than the BSPS, so the critical yield figure for the BSPS2 at age 65 likely fell 
somewhere in between the figures above.
Generally speaking, the critical yield figure is higher at younger ages due to the impact of 
initial charges and because the invested transfer value has less time to increase in value 
compared to taking benefits at age 65. So the critical yield figures at age 57, to align with                
Mr Ps early retirement objective, wouldve likely been higher than those stated above. Given 
that one of the reasons why Mr P wanted to transfer was because he wanted to flexibly 
access benefits at age 57, I wouldve expected Niche to have stated the figures applicable at 
that age in its suitability report. But it didnt. So Im not persuaded that the comparison and 
figures stated in the suitability report included enough information for Mr P to enable him to 
make an informed decision.
Niches recommendation to Mr P was provided to him after the FCA gave instructions in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable
DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to
October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. While businesses weren't
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they
provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably
achievable when the advice was given in this case. The closest discount rate which I'm able
to refer to and published by this service for the period before October 2017 is 4.6% based on
Mr P taking benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and 4.4% based on taking 
benefits at age 57. Furthermore, the FCA's projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per year for the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower 
rate. 
In my view, the discount rate and FCA projection rates indicate that Mr P would need to 
accept a higher risk investment approach to provide the potential for the sort of investment 
returns required over the investment timeframe to age 65 to exceed the figure of 5.96%. But 
that would only come with accepting the risk of significant investment loss. This is because 
the relationship between risk and reward is closely related. 
I note that Mr P was recorded as having a Cautious Balanced risk profile. He had very 
limited investment knowledge and experience before the pension transfer. At the time of 
Niches advice, Mr P didnt have any other savings or investments other than his Tata Steel 
DC plan that started earlier in 2017 and was then valued at about £2,000. Theres no 
evidence that Mr P had experience of controlling and investing significant sums of money. 
Given the critical yield applicable in this case, I think that there was limited scope for the 
PPP to provide benefits that matched the relinquished benefits, let alone exceed them. And 
it seems that Niche agrees because in its suitability report it stated that it thought Mr P would 
likely be financially worse off in retirement based on the critical yield figure of 5.96%.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this.
Death benefits objective
It was recorded that Mr P wanted to change the format of death benefits, mainly due to his 
single status and that his partner wouldnt be provided for under the BSPS. Death benefits 
are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like their loved ones to 
be taken care of when they die.
The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are 
taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately 
following the transfer to the PPP and for the period until Mr P could draw any benefits from 
55 onwards, the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment 
performance) due to the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value for at 
least 16 years.
But Mr P was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect life expectancy into his 
80s. There werent any immediate health concerns that indicated a pension transfer was a 
suitable course of action at that time.
The value of Mr Ps safeguarded benefits would represent a significant proportion of his 
retirement provision by the time he came to retire. And so hed likely start using this money 
to meet his income and lump sum needs as soon as he retired. Withdrawing money from the 
PPP to meet his income and lump sum needs from age 57 would likely mean that the size of 
the fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than 
expected.
If it was a genuine objective for Mr P to provide a lump sum to his partner and children on his 
death, then life cover couldve achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum while 
enabling him to maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note that Mr P had 
disposable income available every month after paying his bills which he couldve used to pay for life cover to achieve the death lump sum objective. Pure life cover for a defined term is 
generally cheap and some cover may have been affordable for Mr P given he was aged 39 
and recorded as being in good health. And if put in trust the policy proceeds would fall 
outside Mr Ps estate for inheritance tax purposes, similar to a PPP. However, I cannot see 
evidence that Niche adequately investigated the life cover option. For example, I havent 
seen evidence that it quantified Mr Ps death lump sum need, over what term, how this might 
change over time, how it might be met by other means or present personalised life cover 
quotes to him to enable him to make an informed decision.
But, in any case, I note that through his employment, Mr P had life cover based on a multiple 
of four times his salary, meaning a lump sum of about £168,000 would be paid in the event 
he died while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable regardless of whether his 
safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, PPF or a PPP. In addition, the value of his 
Tata Steel DC pension plan would be paid as a lump sum to his nominated beneficiary(ies). 
So it seems to me that in the immediate future, certainly while Mr P remained employed by 
Tata Steel, that a lump sum of at least £168,000 would be paid on his death. As noted 
above, it seems that Mr P intended to remain employed by Tata Steel for the foreseeable 
future.
So I think its fair to say that there wasnt any immediate need to transfer at that time to 
provide death benefits in a different format bearing in mind the cover already in place while 
Mr P remained employed by Tata Steel. With no immediate health concerns, this existing 
cover enabled Niche and Mr P enough time to properly investigate obtaining additional life 
cover so that he could maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2.
Its my view that Mr P had no health issues at the time Niche advised him which might 
reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement 
income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his partner and children. So Im not 
convinced there was any real merit in Mr P transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a 
lump sum death benefit. 
Flexibility and early retirement objectives
It was recorded that Mr P wanted to retire at age 57. It doesnt appear that his desired level 
of income in retirement from that age was recorded. However, it was recorded that he 
expected his total monthly expenditure in retirement to be £1,225 (or £14,700 per year).
In its suitability report, Niche recorded that it recommended the pension transfer to a PPP to 
enable Mr P to flexibly access his safeguarded benefits. It was noted that his main focus was 
the ability to flexibly access his pension in retirement allowing for any changes in 
circumstances in the future with a view to utilising his funds while he was young and able.
I think its clear that Mr P was attracted to a flexible arrangement. But Im not convinced, 
based on the evidence provided, that it was evident at age 39 he had a genuine need to 
access his safeguarded benefits flexibly with varying levels of income and lump sums during 
retirement. 
Mr P was 39 at the time and so more than 17 years away from his preferred retirement age 
of 57. While I dont doubt he wouldve liked the flexibility to draw any level of benefit he 
wanted, plans can change over such a long period of time. An important point here is the 
fact that Mr P couldnt access the money in the PPP until age 55 at the earliest. So I dont 
think there was any pressing need to transfer his safeguarded benefits at that time, 
especially given the high critical yield attached to the transaction.Niche portrayed the PPP option in the suitability report as allowing for early retirement at age 
57 without the penalties which would be applied to the PPF or BSPS2 options. The reality 
was of course that the PPP wouldve had less time to grow if accessed at 57 and any 
resulting income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained 
to Mr P so that he could understand accessing any of the available options at age 57 would 
likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking benefits at 
age 65.
I think it wouldve been very difficult at age 39 to determine with any reasonable degree of 
certainty whether Mr P would be able to retire at age 57. This leads me to conclude that 
there wasnt any compelling reason to transfer at that time in light of the critical yield figure. 
But if I assume it was a realistic objective, its my view that he couldve achieved this by 
opting for the BSPS2 and drawing the scheme pension at 65 without penalty. Ill explain why.
I note that Mr P was an active member of the Tata Steel DC pension scheme which, at the 
time of Niches advice, was valued at about £2,000. Mr P and Tata Steel were, in total, 
contributing 16% of his gross annual salary of £42,000 into his DC pension plan every year, 
which was about £6,700 in monetary terms. This would increase in line with increases in his 
salary. It was noted that Mr P intended to continue working in the steel industry until 
retirement. So I think its fair to say that, at that time, he would continue to be employed by 
Tata Steel for the foreseeable future. And in the event Mr P left that employment, I think its 
likely that hed find alternative employment and, with the legal requirements of auto-
enrolment, would join a different DC pension scheme and pay a minimum of 8% of his 
earnings into it. 
So over the 18-year period to age 57, its likely that Mr P would build up significant DC 
pension savings. Indeed, Niches own cashflow analysis indicated that the value of Mr Ps 
DC plan would be well in excess of £200,000 by age 57. Given that Niche was relying on the 
value of the DC pension savings to underpin its recommendation, I think its fair that I take 
these into account in deciding this complaint. Its my view that access to that level of DC 
pension savings wouldve met Mr Ps expected his total monthly expenditure in retirement to 
be £1,225 (or £14,700 per year) for the first several years of retirement.
So if Mr P did have a genuine need for flexible benefits from age 57, this couldve been met 
in the first instance by using his likely significant DC pension savings. This course of action 
wouldve enabled Mr P to achieve his income and lump sum needs for the eight-year period 
from age 57 until he could take unreduced benefits from the BSPS2 at 65. The estimated 
revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS was £22,542 at age 65. I recognise 
that the level of income payable by the BSPS2 at age 65 would be lower than £22,542 but, 
with the option of a tax-free lump sum, its likely the benefits provided wouldve covered his 
expected expenditure until his full state pension started at age 68. So, from 65 onwards, it 
seems most of Mr Ps core retirement income needs couldve been met by guaranteed and 
escalating pensions which wouldve offered some inflation protection unlike the 
recommended PPP. 
And if it turned out the DC pension savings didnt provide adequate income for the full eight-
year period between 57 and 65, Mr P couldve taken his benefits from BSPS2 at some point 
in between, meaning the early retirement factor wouldnt be as great as at age 57. 
Alternatively, he couldve considered a transfer to a PPP at that time when his retirement 
income and lump sum needs could be determined with far greater accuracy than at 39.
Transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks associated with 
providing the retirement benefits moving from the DB pension scheme to Mr P. But I dont 
think he needed to take on these risks at that time for the reasons explained above.The course of action recommended by Niche led to Mr P concentrating most of his 
retirement benefits on a DC basis which offered no guarantees but was based entirely on 
investment performance. The alternative, blended approach Ive suggested likely wouldve 
enabled Mr P to achieve the same objectives but with significantly less risk. I havent seen 
evidence that Niche adequately considered and discounted this alternative course of action 
in meeting Mr Ps flexible and early retirement objective.
The available evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why flexibility wouldve 
been a sufficiently compelling reason for Mr P to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees at 
that time. 
In conclusion, while I understand Mr Ps reasons and motivations for flexible benefits and 
early retirement, I dont think Niche clearly demonstrated why it was in his best interests to 
relinquish his safeguarded benefits at that time to achieve future flexibility. I simply dont 
agree the perceived advantage of flexibility and control of income outweighed the 
guaranteed benefits offered by the BSPS2. 
Mr Ps concerns about the security of his benefits and the PPF
Given the level of uncertainty surrounding the BSPS at the time, I can understand that Mr P 
was concerned about the financial security of his safeguarded benefits and so wanted to 
have control over these by transferring them away to a PPP. 
It was noted in the suitability report that Mr P was concerned about the value of his 
safeguarded benefits being reduced. It was noted, You therefore see the benefits of the 
current scheme as less appealing, and you are afraid that they may be further reduced in the 
future if your benefits enter the RAA and PPF. Following the controversy surrounding the 
British Steel pension scheme, you have expressed to me that you no longer have faith in the 
Trustees of the British Steel pension scheme, as they have made several disadvantageous 
changes to the scheme. You would therefore like to have more control over your pension; 
how it is invested, and when and how much of an income you may withdraw. You feel that 
there is a potential that even the newly arranged BSPS 2 pension may still fall into the 
Pension Protection Fund and therefore significantly reduce the flexibility of when you can 
access the pension in addition to the reduction in benefits. 
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits.
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the
PPF, Mr P could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, although this
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrasted
with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits
payable. At the time of Niches recommendation, the PPFs financial position remained 
robust. So there wasnt any reason at that time to question the financial viability of the PPF 
to provide benefits in the future.
Had Niche advised Mr P to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable,
when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his retirement income
and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at 39. I think this is a key point.
A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve also removed any immediate concerns Mr P had about the 
PPF. After all, the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term 
DB pension scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the future, 
that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, similarly 
to the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to a PPP before any transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any immediate concern about 
options disappearing for Mr P or that there was an urgency to transfer to a PPP at that time 
to avoid a transfer to the PPF. In my view, Mr P was reliant on Niche to provide a fair and 
balanced assessment of the BSPS2 and PPF and to act in his best interests in this regard. 
This ought to have involved discussing with Mr P the features, risks and benefits of those 
alternative options and allaying his misapprehensions. 
If Mr P was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which 
would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why he would accept 
the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the 
loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This simply doesnt make sense to me and 
suggests that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks 
and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He was relying on Niche to 
provide expert advice on this point, but I think it failed to do this because the suitability report 
doesnt deal with Mr Ps concerns about the PPF. So he likely thought a transfer to the PPF 
was an outcome to avoid at all costs and probably reinforced his view that a transfer to a 
PPP was the best course of action.
In summary, I think that Niche failed to adequately allay Mr Ps misapprehensions and that 
he therefore made the decision to transfer to the PPP from an uninformed position regarding 
the PPF.
If properly informed, would Mr P have transferred anyway?
Im not persuaded that a pension transfer was in Mr Ps best interests. So I dont think its 
recommendation could therefore be regarded as suitable in the circumstances. As a result, I 
think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
In potential mitigation of Niches advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr P, if placed in a 
fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to a PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many factors 
which Mr P, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view, given his lack of 
investment knowledge and experience, that he was heavily reliant on Niche, as the 
professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice. Given Mr Ps reliance on Niche to provide expert advice, I think its unlikely, 
on balance, he wouldve transferred against its advice had it advised him to opt for the 
BSPS2.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Niche to put Mr P, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator in that, had Mr P been properly advised, he wouldve
opted for the BSPS2 rather than the PPF. Ill explain why.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. For the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly advised, Mr P wouldve 
envisaged accessing his DC pension savings in the first instance to meet any flexible income 
and lump sum needs before starting to take his safeguarded benefits at 65. In terms of death 
benefits, I recognise that the spouses pension offered by the BPSP2 may not have been 
seen as relevant by Mr P given that he stated he had no plans to marry. But I dont think his marital status meant he shouldve relinquished the valuable guaranteed and income 
provided by the BSPS2 at age 65. And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS2 which 
should be used for comparison purposes.
As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out using the
most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. This should be on the
basis Mr P takes benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65.
FCA consultation 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB pension transfer redress 
guidance and set out its proposals in a consultation document  CP22/15-calculating redress 
for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA stated that it considers the current redress methodology in
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 remains appropriate and fundamental changes arent
necessary. However, its review identified some areas where it considers it could improve or
clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance  https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has stated that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 while the consultation takes place.
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr P whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance and rules to be published. He didnt 
make a choice. So, as set out previously, Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait 
for any new guidance. Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate 
and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr P.
Niche must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the FCAs pension
review guidance as updated by it in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how
to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. This calculation should be carried
out as at the date of this final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions. In 
accordance with the FCAs expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an 
appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of this 
final decision.
Niche may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain
Mr Ps contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the BSPS on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible ,be paid 
into Mr Ps PPP. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the PPP if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the PPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been taken as 
tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%, as previously stated by our investigator. So making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
If this complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance
or rules come into effect, Id expect Niche to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, Niche should pay Mr P £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him.
The compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date
Niche receives notification of his acceptance of this final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of this
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche 
to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. Where I uphold
a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs
that I consider are appropriate.
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed
£160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed 
£160,000, I would additionally require Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay 
Mr P any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount 
already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Niche Independent Financial Advisers 
Limited to pay Mr P any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P. If    
Mr P accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr P can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this 
final decision.
Niche must provide to the Representative a breakdown of the loss assessment in a simple, 
easily understandable format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman