DRN-3795046
The complaint
Mrs L and Mr L complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) unfairly declined their 
claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA)  as amended by the Consumer 
Credit Act 2006  in relation to a timeshare product they purchased in June 2014.
Mrs L and Mr L are assisted in bringing their complaint by a claims management company 
(the CMC).  
What happened
In or around June 2014, Mrs L and Mr L were enjoying a holiday outside of the UK, booked 
utilising their benefits under an existing timeshare points product previously purchased from 
a timeshare supplier. Ill refer to the timeshare supplier as D.
During their holiday, Mrs L and Mr L were encouraged to attend an update meeting during 
which they agreed to purchase additional points in the timeshare product at a cost of £6,719. 
A balance of £5,376 was funded by way of a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook over 
a term of 120 months.
In September 2018, the CMC wrote to Shawbrook on behalf of Mrs L and Mr L to initiate a 
claim under Section 140 of the CCA (S140). They said D had made certain representations 
which turned out not to be true. They said D told Mrs L and Mr L that purchase of the 
additional points would:
resolve holiday booking availability issues theyd experienced; and
open up other benefits including being able to use points to book flights.
The CMC also said the terms of the agreement were so egregious so as to be unfair. In 
particular, the CMC highlighted that:
commission paid by Shawbrook to D hadnt been disclosed; and
maintenance fees had risen to an almost unaffordable level and they anticipate this 
to increase despite them having received no advice regarding the same;
Mrs L and Mr L were not given any time alone to read the paperwork or take a copy 
away with them; and
the terms and conditions of the loan werent explained to Mrs L and Mr L, in particular 
in relation to overpayment options.
The CMC believed that the sales process had breached various regulations in so far as:
the update meeting actually proved to be a sales presentation lasting five hours;
Mrs L and Mr L were subjected to hard selling techniques and placed under pressure 
not to leave until a purchase contract had been agreed;
Mrs L and Mr L were encouraged to enter a regulated agreement (the loan) despite 
the nature of the meeting having not previously been clearly indicated; and
Mrs L and Mr L were told they must enter into the purchase agreement on the day in 
order to secure the special price offered.
Furthermore, the CMC believed that D, acting as a credit broker for Shawbrook, didnt 
complete any affordability checks or seek evidence of Mrs L and Mr Ls income and 
outgoings to ensure that the loan was affordable for them. 
Shawbrook responded to Mrs L and Mr Ls claim in November 2018. In summary, they didnt 
agree that the product points purchased by them had been misrepresented by D. Neither did 
they agree there was any other reason for Mrs L and Mr Ls claim to be upheld.
As Mrs L and Mr L were unhappy with Shawbrooks response to their claim, the CMC 
referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered all the information and arguments relating to Mrs L and 
Mr Ls complaint. Having done so, our investigator didnt think the allegations of 
misrepresentation were supported by the evidence available. Further, our investigator didnt 
think there was sufficient to suggest the relationship was unfair under S140. Finally, our 
investigator wasnt persuaded that the loan was unaffordable for Mrs L and Mr L or that 
Shawbrook shouldve reasonably realised it was.
In response to our investigators findings, the CMC reiterated various points previously 
raised within the original claim, in particular relating to the finance agreement that was 
arranged on the day of the sale, and the associated credit checks and assessments that 
were (or werent) undertaken at the time. They didnt believe the manner in which the finance 
was sold to Mrs L and Mr L was fair or within the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
regulations.
The CMC also said the product was an in perpetuity contract with unlimited liability for 
management charges and breached regulations 12 and 13 of the Timeshare Regulations 
2010 (TSR).
As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint has been passed 
to me to consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
Section 75 of the CCA (S75) provides protection for consumers for goods or services 
bought using credit. Mrs L and Mr L paid for the timeshare product with a restricted use fixed 
sum loan agreement, and it isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. So, this means that Mrs L 
and Mr L are afforded the protection offered to borrowers like them under those provisions. 
And as a result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mrs L, Mr L and Shawbrook arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). And because the 
timeshare product purchase agreement was funded under the credit agreement, it is 
deemed to be a related agreement. Only a court has the power to make a determination 
under S140A. But as its relevant law, I will consider it when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable. 
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Mrs L, Mr L and D, as the vendor/supplier, 
are deemed to have been conducted by D as an agent of Shawbrook. There are also other regulations that may apply specifically to misrepresentation, the sale of 
timeshare products, unfair trading and unfair terms. As Ive already mentioned, the specifics 
of Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint relate to how Shawbrook handled and responded to their 
claims under the CCA. So, Ive considered any impact of the various related regulations and 
how they might apply here.
In considering the various points raised by the CMC, I want to take this opportunity to clarify 
this services role in considering Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint. Its important to recognise that 
the complaint considered specifically relates to whether I believe Shawbrooks response to 
their claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available to me. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, it isnt my role to address every single point 
thats been made in my decision. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe 
are the most salient points having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal 
service and cant make legal findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer 
doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue any 
claim in alternative ways. 
Mrs L and Mr Ls experience as timeshare product users
Before looking at the complaint in depth, I think its relevant to acknowledge Mrs L and Mr 
Ls experience of timeshare products supplied by D up to the point of the product sale 
entered into in June 2014. Records suggest that products sales were agreed with Mrs L and 
Mr L as follows:
November 2002 - purchased 3,5001 points for £7,300 funded by cheque;
August 2003  purchased an additional 4,5002 points for £7,025 financed by another 
lender;
August 2004  agreed to purchase an additional 5,000 points but subsequently 
cancelled at no cost;
August 2010  agreed to purchase an additional 2,000 points but subsequently 
cancelled within the rescission period at no cost;
December 2010  purchased an additional 4,000 points for £4,500 funded by bank 
transfer; and
September 2012  purchased an additional 3,000 points for £4,800 financed by 
another lender.
A purchase completed in June 2014 is the subject of this complaint. Since then, Mrs L and 
Mr L agreed further product purchases as follows:
September 2014  purchased an additional £5,000 points for £3,901 funded by card 
payment and also purchased a one-off holiday for £299 funded by card payment;
February 2016  purchased an additional 5,000 points for £4,901 funded by card 
payment;
April 2016  agreed to purchase an additional 15,000 points but subsequently 
1 Originally 35 points restated as 3,500 following introduction of the double zero scheme
2 Originally 45 points restated as 4,500 following introduction of the double zero schemecancelled within the rescission period at no cost;
October 2016  purchased an additional 7,500 points for £6,850 funded by card 
payment and also purchased a one-off holiday for £299 also funded by card 
payment; and
April 2018  agreed to purchase an additional 7,500 points but subsequently 
cancelled within the rescission period at no cost.
Ive also seen evidence of Mrs L and Mr Ls reservation history utilising their timeshare 
product points with D. Between August 2003 and March 2019, they appear to have 
successfully booked 68 different holidays/breaks at resorts offered by D, varying in length 
from two to nine days. 40 of the bookings were to the same resort. And of the bookings six 
were cancelled with points returned to Mrs L and Mr L on some occasions.
Was the timeshare product misrepresented?
Mrs L and Mr L say that theyd experienced ongoing problems with availability when 
attempting to book their preferred destinations, resorts and dates. And they suggest that 
during the sales presentation, D made assurances that the additional product points they 
purchased would resolve such issues.
Having looked at all the evidence available, I can find no record that Mrs L and Mr L had 
voiced any concerns to D about booking availability prior to completing their purchase in 
2014. D have confirmed this in a statement provided to Shawbrook in response to the CMCs 
allegations. Furthermore, having carefully considered all the documentation available from 
the time of the sale, Ive not been able to find any assurances or guarantees given by D in 
relation to booking availability.
Prior to completing the June 2014 purchase, Mrs L and Mr Ls points holding afforded them 
silver status within Ds points membership scheme. The additional points purchased would 
not and did not result in that membership status moving to a higher level. And even if it did, 
D have explained that the advance booking benefits are the same for Mrs L and Mr Ls silver 
member status as for the higher categories. Any additional benefits associated with a higher 
membership status dont appear to relate specifically to booking availability.
So, in the absence of any supporting evidence to the contrary, Im not persuaded that D is 
likely to have suggested to them that the additional points purchase wouldve afforded 
greater or improved benefits from that already held  other than to provide a greater level of 
points to be utilised towards holiday bookings of their choice. The available evidence simply 
doesnt support that.
As regards the use of points to secure flight bookings, D have confirmed this as a benefit 
Mrs L and Mr L could access by using points from their annual allocation. D has suggested 
confusion may have arisen as a result of Mrs L and Mr Ls later attempts to utilise unused 
points from a previous year to book flights. Theyve confirmed that restrictions on the use of 
points in this way are clearly set out and explained in their Member Benefits Directory. And 
this was provided at the point of purchase and previously sent out to them annually, as and 
when it was updated. So, again I havent found any evidence to support Mrs L and Mr Ls 
assertions that D wouldve told them something at the sales presentation that contradicted 
what was set out in the accompanying and subsequent documentation.
In summary, I havent seen any evidence that leads me to conclude that D misrepresented 
the benefits of the additional points purchased by Mrs L and Mr L in June 2014. And this is 
supported by Ds contemporaneous records which confirm that Mrs L and Mr Ls decision to 
purchase more points was specifically for more holidays. Their subsequent reservation 
history and points usage appears to support that aim.
S140  Unfair RelationshipThe court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (Shawbrook) and the debtor (Mrs L and 
Mr L) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or 
after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have regard to 
all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and matters 
relating to the debtor).
Commission
The CMC believe the terms of the agreement to be unfair as payment of commission was 
hidden from view. 
Theres a document from the time of the sale entitled Customer Compliance 
Statement/Declaration to Treating Customers Fairly (CCS). Note 18 of this document says 
that D is entitled to receive a commission in respect of credit brokered. The document was 
signed and dated by Mrs L and Mr L. Ive seen no evidence that Mrs L and Mr L submitted 
any request for details of commission made in this instance, or previously for that matter.
If such a payment was made, I havent seen anything to suggest this wouldve breached any 
duty by making it. Nor have I seen anything to suggest Shawbrook were under any 
regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. From 
what Ive seen across the timeshare industry, if commission was ever paid, it tended to be 
low. So, for that reason, and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I think its unlikely 
that the levels of commission normally paid in situations like this were high enough to put 
Shawbrook on notice that not disclosing it to Mrs L and Mr L risked making their debtor-
creditor relationship unfair under S140A.
Time to consider the purchase/lending agreements
The CMC suggest Mrs L and Mr L were neither given time to read and consider the 
documentation alone before committing to them nor given copies to take away with them.
D has confirmed to Shawbrook that in line with their standard procedure, duplicate copies of 
the agreements wouldve been provided to Mrs L and Mr L at the time of the purchase. In 
addition to which, they were afforded the regulatory 14-day cooling off period in order that 
they could further consider the purchase and, where appropriate, seek advice. These 
withdrawal rights were included within the documentation Mrs L and Mr L signed at the time 
of the product sale. Within the CCS document, Mrs L and Mr L signed to confirm theyd been 
given time to read and consider the various agreements and documentation (including the 
finance agreement). 
Theres no evidence to suggest the transaction was completed at any time before expiry of 
the cooling off period. So, on balance, I cant reasonably conclude that Mrs L and Mr L 
werent given the requisite time to carefully consider the transaction theyd entered into. 
Theres also no evidence to suggest they raised any subsequent questions, concerns or 
requests for copy documents. And given Mrs L and Mr Ls past experience shows theyd 
cancelled agreements previously, and so were presumably aware they could, I cant 
reasonably say that this is likely to have led to a situation that might risk making the debtor-
creditor relationship with Shawbrook unfair under S140A.  
Maintenance fees                                                                                                                                                                                    The CMC suggest that Mrs L and Mr L werent given sufficient information about the ongoing 
costs associated with the additional points they purchased (i.e., the annual management 
charges).
So, Ive looked at how the schemes annual management charges were/are composed and 
fixed, whether they were clearly explained at the time of sale and whether, in light of the 
long-term nature of the scheme, the terms governing those charges were unfair.
One of the main aims of the various regulations that applied here was to enable consumers 
to understand the financial implications of their purchase so that they were/are put in a 
position to make an informed decision. If Ds disclosure and/or the terms of the purchase 
didnt recognise and reflect that aim, and Mrs L and Mr L ultimately lost out or almost 
certainly stand to lose out from having entered into a contract whose financial implications 
they didnt fully understand at the time of contracting, that may amount to unfairness under 
S140A.
However, as the Supreme Court decision in Plevin3 makes clear, it doesnt automatically 
follow that regulatory breaches create unfairness for the purpose of S140A. Such breaches 
and their consequences (if there are any) must be looked at in the round, rather than in a 
narrow or technical way. S140A(2) says that courts shall have a regard to all matters it 
thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the 
debtor). So, its wide enough to include their ongoing exposure to unfairness in the future 
under the terms in question and how D has enforced any terms that are or might be unfair.
Here, its possible D didnt give Mrs L and Mr L sufficient information, in good time, on the 
various charges they couldve been subject to in order to satisfy its regulatory responsibility 
under Regulation 12 of the Timeshare Regulations. But even if that was the case, Mrs L and 
Mr L were existing, long standing, members by the time the additional product points were 
purchased. So, I think their experience as members is likely to have given them a 
reasonable amount of insight into what the ongoing costs were likely to be going forward. I 
believe any decision to purchase the additional product points was made with the benefit of 
that experience. So, in the absence of a credible explanation from them as to why, at the 
time of the sale, Ds cost disclosure (or lack of) could be said to have played a significant 
part in that decision, Im not persuaded it did.
Because of this, it seems unlikely to me that a court might decide that the disclosure (or lack 
of) led to any unfairness in the relationship between Mrs L, Mr L and Shawbrook for the 
purposes of S140A.
Failure to position a meeting as a sales event
As Ive already stated, Mrs L and Mr L already held a long-standing membership with D prior 
to the additional product points purchase, which is the subject of their complaint. And 
because of that, I think its reasonable to conclude that they had existing experience and 
knowledge of meetings with representatives of D. So, Im not persuaded that an invitation to 
a meeting by D, as described by the CMC, wouldnt have reasonably put Mrs L and Mr L on 
notice that this might involve some form of sales discussion or presentation. 
Further, Ive not seen anything that suggests attendance of a meeting here was compulsory, 
or even that Mrs L and Mr L couldnt otherwise choose to end such discussions - should they 
so wish. D have confirmed the same.
The CMC have gone on to suggest that Ds representative(s) used hard selling tactics and 
pressured Mrs L and Mr L to agree to the additional purchase on the day in question. I dont 
think its implausible that the sales presentation Mrs L and Mr L attended here is likely to 
have lasted a significant length of time. And in the absence of them choosing to leave that 
presentation, I can appreciate why Mrs L and Mr L might have felt persuaded to agree to the 
3 Plevin vs Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014] (Plevin)purchase in order to bring matters to a close. Particularly if, as suggested, this would secure 
what was said to be a more advantageous purchase price.
I believe its entirely plausible that Mrs L and Mr Ls past experience of Ds presentations and 
products meant that they had a good level of familiarity with Ds sales practices and 
processes. Theyd agreed purchases on six previous occasions since 2002. And on two 
occasions had subsequently chosen to reverse their decision and cancel the purchase at no 
cost or detriment to themselves. Because of that, Im not persuaded that Mrs L and Mr L 
would simply have agreed to purchase the additional points purely because of that pressure 
and thus bring the meeting to an end if, in reality, they simply didnt want to increase their 
points holding. And given their actions previously, had they ultimately felt uncomfortable with 
their decision and actions, I believe they were sufficiently experienced and aware that they 
couldve subsequently cancelled the agreement in any event.
Were adequate affordability checks undertaken?
The CMC suggest that D, acting as a broker/intermediary by introducing Mrs L and Mr L to 
Shawbrook, failed to complete adequate checks and assessments to ensure that they could 
afford to sustainable repay the loan they entered into. 
At the outset, its important to recognise Ds role as the intermediary here. I dont believe 
they were acting in an advisory capacity. As such, the responsibility to comply with the 
requirements of the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) didnt lay with D, but with 
Shawbrook as the lender here.
In their final response to Mrs L and Mr Ls claim, Shawbrook said they completed an 
appropriate assessment ofcreditworthinessin accordance with our regulatory obligations 
under CONC rule 5.2.1. They said they used information we were aware of at the time of 
the application, and the credit reference checks we undertook.
I havent found anything to suggest there were affordability issues here, such as missed 
payments or other financial difficulties to such an extent that this would suggest the loan 
proved to be unsustainably affordable for Mrs L and Mr L. So, in the absence of that, I cant 
reasonably say that if reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, they wouldve 
shown that Mrs L and Mr L were more likely than not unable to sustainably repay what they 
were being lent. 
Is the contract perpetual?
The CMC believe the purchase contract breaches regulations 12 and 13 of the Timeshare 
Regulations due to its perpetual nature. Part 4 of the Key Information Document states, your 
membershipwill last until 31st December 2054. On that date, the (scheme) will be 
dissolved and your membership will terminate. So as a clear end date is included within the 
contract documentation, I dont agree with the CMCs assertion here.
Summary 
Having carefully considered all the information and arguments presented in this complaint, 
Im not persuaded that Shawbrooks response to Mrs L and Mr Ls claim was ultimately 
unfair or unreasonable. So, while I appreciate they will be disappointed, I will not be 
upholding their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Dave MorganOmbudsman