DRN-3885651
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has 
unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Mrs C has a representative acting for her. All references to Mrs C include any submissions 
made by her representatives on her behalf. 
Mrs C has a group income protection insurance policy through her employer, underwritten by 
L&G. This would pay a benefit if Mrs C was unable to work in her own occupation due to 
illness or injury throughout the deferred (waiting) period and beyond. After two years, the test 
for incapacity changes from own occupation to suited occupation. 
Mrs C became absent from work in April 2015. Mrs Cs employer told L&G of her claim in 
2017 but Mrs C didnt return the relevant forms and so the claim was closed. In April 2019, 
Mrs C provided the relevant consent and information and so the claim was re-opened and 
assessed. 
L&G declined the claim because it hadnt been able to assess whether Mrs C was 
incapacitated throughout the deferred period. It said the late notification had prejudiced its 
assessment of the claim. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs C complained and referred her complaint to this service. L&G made 
an offer to pay the claim from the end of the deferred period until May 2017 with interest 
from October 2019. Our investigator thought this was a fair offer. She accepted that L&G 
had been prejudiced by the late notification and it would be difficult to retrospectively assess 
the medical evidence due to the change in occupation, the various gaps in the medical 
evidence and suggestions of improvements in the different illnesses Mrs C was suffering 
from.
Mrs C disagreed and said the medical evidence shows that she has been incapacitated 
since the date of her absence until now. And she has also provided independent medical 
evidence by way of a report dated 2020 which concluded that Mrs C wasnt able to work in 
any role since 2016. She said insufficient weight had been given to this evidence. In 
summary, she made the following points for me to consider:
The independent report should be taken into account by L&G as her employer 
recommended she should get one. 
The medical evidence from May 2017 which the investigator has relied on was a 
post-operative review of Mrs Cs left hand. She still had serious issues with her right 
hand.
There were other reasons why Mrs C couldnt work in May 2017  including problems 
with her right hand and her other illnesses. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that L&Gs offer to pay the claim from the end of the deferred period 
until May 2017, with interest, is fair. I also accept that it has been prejudiced by the late 
notification of the claim and so it doesnt need to do anything more. Ill explain why.
I should start by saying that I have considered all submissions from both sides in detail even 
if I dont explicitly refer to them in my decision. Instead, I have focused on what I consider to 
be key. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions
Incapacity:
Own occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that 
prevents him from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately 
before the start of the deferred period.
Suited occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury 
so that he is unable to undertake any occupation which we consider appropriate to 
his experience, training or education.
Late notification: 
Payment of this benefit will be subject to us receiving:
(i) Not later than the benefit start date, the absence notification in the format 
required by us, and
Where the requirement in (i) above is not met and the date of notification in the format 
required by us is after the end of the deferred period, benefit will be payable from the 
date on which the notice is received by usWe reserve the right to not pay benefit in 
respect of a claim where the application for benefit in the format required by us is 
received more than 90 days after the end of the deferred period.
So its my role to decide whether L&G has acted fairly. 
The medical evidence
The medical evidence has been summarised by both sides. 
Mrs Cs position is that the evidence supports ongoing incapacity from the date of 
absence. 
L&G says there are gaps in the medical evidence as well as reports of improvements 
after the deferred period. However, it has accepted that Mrs C was incapacitated 
from her role between April 2015 and May 2017. Following this, it says the medical evidence from May 2017 shows that Mrs C had 
recovered well from her surgery. Her next surgery was scheduled in July 2017 and 
there is no medical evidence between May and July explaining why Mrs C couldnt 
return to work. So L&G say at this point, Mrs C could have returned to work. But due 
to the late notification of the claim, its position was prejudiced and it wasnt able to 
assess what should have happened. 
From October 2017, the relevant definition changes to suited occupation and L&G 
would assess the claim based on the new definition of incapacity. 
Having considered all of the above and both sides detailed submissions, I agree the medical 
evidence supports that Mrs C was incapacitated until May 2017. But L&Gs assessment of 
the claim has been prejudiced due to the late notification. The medical evidence suggests 
Mrs C was coping well with her Parkinsons disease in 2017 and her pain was being 
managed in relation to her back and knee pains. The Carpal Tunnel Syndrome problems 
were ongoing but no functional capacity evaluation (FCE) or tests took place at the time. 
L&G was prevented from carrying out reviews and FCEs at regular review periods and 
intervals.
The consultants report from 2020
Mrs C seems to have had a deterioration in health over the last few years but L&G cant be 
certain at which point that happened. The definition of incapacity changed after two years, so 
L&G would have assessed Mrs C against the suited occupation definition from 2017. Mrs C 
may have been able to return to work for short periods with reasonable adjustments. Or she 
may not have done. Its difficult to say what would have happened so many years after the 
event. L&G has been prevented from assisting in a return to work or arranging further tests 
or examinations.
The 2020 report has been written retrospectively and although the consultant assessed Mrs 
C, he hadnt reviewed Mrs C at the time of her initial absence and when the definition 
changed. The consultant also disagrees with previous expert assessments on whether Mrs 
C is capable of returning to work, based on his own assessment. But his assessment is 
retrospective and so I have placed less weight on it compared to the earlier assessments 
which took place at the time of absence. The consultant also says Mrs Cs problems have 
been continuous since 2016 but this contradicts the medical evidence from 2017. 
Legal costs and award for distress and inconvenience  
Mrs C feels her legal costs should be awarded as she instructed solicitors to represent her. I 
dont think it was necessary for Mrs C to have legal representation to bring her complaint to 
this office, as already explained by our investigator.
Ive also considered whether an award for distress and inconvenience would be fair and 
reasonable. But as L&G has offered to pay 8% simple interest from October 2019 to the date 
of settlement, I dont think any further award is due on the basis that the claim was notified 
late. And because the terms allow L&G not to accept the claim in these circumstances. 
Overall I think the offer is fair and I wont be asking L&G to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited to:Pay the claim from the end of the deferred period to May 2017.
Add 8% simple interest on the amount due, calculated from October 2019, to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman