DRN-3257763
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC irresponsibly allowed her to take out a number 
of loans which were unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs L says Barclays knew she had health issues as she told it about them in around 1994. 
She says she took out a series of loans which Barclays ought to have known were 
unaffordable as she banked with it. Mrs L says as a result of her debts she became 
homeless and would like the loan balances written off and compensation for what took place.
Barclays says Mrs L took out six loans in total and has reviewed all of them. It says it may 
not have approved the last three and so has agreed to refund any interest and charges on 
them. Barclays says it carried out appropriate checks on the first three loans and says they 
were affordable. It says the first two loans were repaid without issue and that problems with 
the third loan may have been caused by Mrs L losing her job some years later.
Mrs L brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the first three loans 
affordable and that Barclays carried out appropriate checks on them. The investigator 
thought Mrs L was left with a disposable income after expenditure was deducted of between 
around £200 on loans two and three and just over £700 on loan one. The investigator 
recommended Barclays arrange a repayment plan with Mrs L in respect of the other loans 
and that it should remove any adverse information from her credit file. He also 
recommended Barclays pay interest on any refund due to Mrs L.
Mrs L doesnt accept that view and says Barclays hasnt considered her spending habits or 
her existing credit. She says she was left with under £30 a month to live on and was made 
homeless.
Barclays has agreed with the investigators view but says it has calculated that there would 
be no overpayment due to Mrs L to pay interest on.
I asked both sides for further information and asked Mrs L for her credit file as well as details 
about her income and expenditure as I didnt think it clear why she said she had less than 
£30 a month to live on at the time of the loans. Mrs L has provided us with her credit file and 
says she didnt have any disposable income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays carried out appropriate checks 
on loans 1,2 and 3 and has fairly agreed to refund charges and interest on the other loans. I 
appreciate Mrs L will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
credit or loan application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of that lending and the relationship between the parties. 
There is no question here that Barclays has said that with the benefit of hindsight it may not 
have approved the last three loans and has fairly agreed to refund Mrs L any interest and 
charges on them. Im satisfied that Barclays must put Mrs L back in the position she would 
have been in if that lending hadnt been approved and that must mean agreeing an 
affordable repayment plan with her which should not attract interest. Barclays should as it 
has agreed to do amend Mrs Ls credit file. Im satisfied that Mrs L had the benefit of the 
lending and it would be unfair to order Barclays write off the balance in those circumstances. 
Im also satisfied that Barclays has fairly calculated that when interest and charges are 
refunded then there wouldnt be an actual refund owed to Mrs L(as the amount would reduce 
the balance owed) and so I accept in those circumstances that it should not add interest to 
any refund.
The key part of this complaint is the first three loans. I appreciate Mrs L says that Barclays 
was told in around 1994 about her health issues but equally I can see Mrs L was working at 
the time of the loans and think that health information from that time period wouldnt have 
prevented Barclays lending to her.
I have looked carefully at the information both parties have provided. Im satisfied that Mrs L 
applied for loan 1 in January 2017 for £2,000 and declared an income of just over £1,800 a 
month. I can see that Barclays carried out affordability checks on the application and 
calculated a monthly disposable income after considering Mrs Ls expenditure. The 
disposable income was calculated at just over £700 and the loan repayment was just over 
£84. I can see that Mrs L made all of the required repayments and repaid the loan early no 
doubt using part of loan 2. So, Im satisfied that Barclays carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on loan 1 and that it was affordable. I also think that Mrs L made all 
required payments which provides additional evidence that this loan was affordable.
Loan 2 was taken out in December 2017 for £3,900 and part of it was used it appears to 
repay loan 1. I can see that Barclays checked the affordability of the loan by calculating Mrs 
Ls income and expenditure and that she was left with over £200 a month in disposable 
income. I accept this figure had fallen but think the payment of just over £105 a month was 
affordable. I can see Mrs L made all required repayments and repaid the loan early, again no 
doubt using loan 3 to do so. It follows that Im satisfied Barclays carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on loan 2 and that the lending was unaffordable. Again, I think that Mrs 
Ls account management of this loan provides additional evidence that it was affordable.
Loan 3 was taken out in September 2018 for £5,800. Having looked at Barclays records I 
can see affordability checks were carried out and that it calculated Mrs Ls disposable 
income at over £200. I can also see that the loan purpose was for debt consolidation and to 
reduce a credit card account balance on which the interest rate was far higher. Again, I can 
see that for some significant time after the loan was taken out that Mrs L made required 
payments of just over £120 a month which I think provides evidence that at the time, in 2018, 
the loan was affordable. 
Im satisfied that Barclays carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on each of three 
loans and that they were on the face of it affordable. I have also looked at Mrs Ls credit file 
and I cant see any adverse information on it that would have altered Barclays to any 
affordability issues such as defaults or County Court Judgements. I can see that on the face 
of it, Mrs Ls credit file showed well managed accounts. It is for that reason I asked Mrs L to 
explain in more detail why she says the loans were unaffordable when it seemed her income 
was greater than her main expenses. I appreciate Mrs Ls work situation may have changed 
in 2020 but that is not something I can consider, as these loans were taken out some years before.
Overall, Im satisfied that loans 1,2 and 3 were affordable and that Barclays carried out 
appropriate checks on them. I cant see what other checks Barclays could have carried out 
or what those checks could have revealed that would have led it to conclude the loans were 
unaffordable. It follows that I cant fairly order Barclays do anything in respect of them. I 
make clear to Mrs L that even if I thought the loans were irresponsibly approved then I would 
not have ordered that they be written off as Mrs L would like, as clearly, she has had the 
benefit of that money.
Putting things right
Barclays accepts loans 4 to 6 should not have been approved. It should refund interest and 
charges as well as agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs L. I can see that Mrs L is 
not due a refund after the charges and interest are deducted and so I dont need to order 
interest be paid on that refund but Mrs Ls credit file must be updated in the light of this 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
refund charges and interest on the loans it accepts it shouldnt have approved and deduct 
that amount from the balances owed by Mrs L. I also order it to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs L and update her credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman