DRN-3397425
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled his claim after his car was 
damaged in an accident. Hes unhappy about how the solicitors Aviva appointed dealt with 
his claim and with the level of communication he received from Aviva and the solicitors.
What happened
Mr H has insurance for his car with Aviva. His car was damaged in an accident on 15 July 
2018. He reported the accident to Aviva the same day and made a claim on his policy for the 
cost of his repairs. 
The day after the accident Aviva contacted Mr H by email saying hed be sent a link to allow 
him to book his car in for repair and hed then be able to review progress. He was also told 
that a car hire company would contact him to arrange for a hire vehicle to be provided while 
the repairs were being completed.
Mr H wanted the repairers to collect his car and the hire car to be delivered to him. Hes 
unhappy that this took five days to sort out and he had to make a lot of calls for this to be 
arranged. He feels he had to organise this himself when Aviva should have done it. He 
raised a complaint with Aviva about this and they offered him £100 to cover loss of use and 
the cost of his phone calls.
Mr H also complained to Aviva about the solicitors theyd appointed to deal with his claim. 
He said the first solicitors they appointed did nothing with his claim. When he raised this with 
Aviva, they appointed a second firm of solicitors whom he says struggled to build a 
competent case. 
There were two other vehicles involved in the accident. One of them didnt stop but the 
police traced the driver and had his details. Mr H says he told the solicitors that both drivers 
were male, but despite this they issued proceedings against the female registered keeper of 
this vehicle, who denied being the driver on the day of the accident.
Mr H contacted Avivas CEO in January 2021 about these issues and said hed had no 
communication from either Aviva or the solicitors for over a year.
Mr H was also unhappy that he hadnt received his policy excess back as it was a non-fault 
accident. But given the time that has passed since Mr H first complained to Aviva, 
proceedings against the other drivers have been successfully concluded, and hes received 
his policy excess.
Aviva responded to Mr Hs complaint saying theyre werent responsible for their appointed 
solicitors actions. And if he wanted to raise a complaint about them, hed need to contact 
them directly.
Mr H wasnt happy with Avivas response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and said there are rules about what we can consider when a complaint 
is about an insurance claim thats been passed to solicitors. He said we cant look at the 
actions of solicitors when theyre pursuing a claim for uninsured losses, such as Mr Hs 
policy excess. And we cant comment on the legal case theyve put together. These types of 
complaints would need to be referred to the Legal Ombudsman.
He said we could consider what the solicitor did in relation to carrying out a contract of 
insurance, but this would be limited to looking at customer service and delays, rather than 
the legal case.
After the accident Mr H confirmed to Aviva that he wanted to recover his policy excess. On 
15 August 2018 Aviva told Mr H they couldnt pursue this, as it was an uninsured loss, but he 
could use his legal cover to try and recover this. Mr H agreed so Aviva appointed one of their 
panel solicitors to act for him. 
Our investigator said he could see that the solicitors had tried unsuccessfully to contact Mr H 
on 4 October 2018. Theyd then sent him blank forms about the accident to complete, which 
was their normal procedure.
Mr H called Aviva for an update on 16 January 2019. He wasnt happy that nothing had 
happened for six months. Avivas notes said that the solicitors couldnt have done anything 
as the other insurers hadnt admitted liability. Mr H thought Aviva were responsible for the 
performance of the solicitors, but our investigator said he couldnt comment on the solicitors 
actions, or anything to do with running the legal claim as this is outside our jurisdiction. 
Our investigator then looked at Mr Hs complaint about the second firm of solicitors Aviva 
appointed. He was unhappy that theyd asked him to complete paperwork requesting similar 
information to that hed provided to Aviva and the first firm of solicitors. As these solicitors 
were appointed to recover Avivas outlay and Mr Hs policy excess, our investigator said he 
could look at their actions from January 2019 as they were partially acting as Avivas agents. 
So our investigator looked at the actions the solicitors had taken when they were instructed. 
He said theyd confirmed their process was to send an uninsured loss form, including a 
Statement of Fact, which they asked Mr H to complete. Our investigator said he understood 
that it was frustrating for Mr H to have to provide information again, but Aviva had told us 
they dont automatically send information to the solicitors, and even if they did the solicitors 
would need to verify this. 
Avivas system notes record that in April 2019, July 2019 and October 2019 that they were 
waiting to hear from the solicitors. But our investigator said he couldnt see that any update 
had been sent to Mr H.
Mr H called Aviva in December 2019 as hed received a letter from one of the other drivers, 
saying he wasnt insured and offering £250 to settle his claim. Our investigator said that part 
of the delay had arisen because this drivers insurers firstly denied liability for the accident 
and then said his policy was void from inception.
From Avivas case notes it appeared that the case had been reviewed by Aviva every three 
months, and there was a further review in January 2021. But their notes only said awaiting 
outlay recovery from solicitors, and our investigator said there was nothing to suggest theyd 
updated Mr H.
Mr H then raised a further complaint on 9 January 2021. Aviva replied on 11 January 2021 
saying that once theyd instructed solicitors they could pursue the claim as they see fit, 
without any need to refer their decisions to us and we do not request periodic updates, 
instead we await the outcome of their enquires. It was at this point Mr H brought his 
complaint to us.Our investigator said that internal emails from Aviva acknowledged that updates from the 
first solicitors wouldnt have gone amiss. And he felt it was reasonable to say the same for 
the second set of solicitors. So he didnt think the level of communication Mr H had received 
was acceptable.
He said that while Mr H had a contract with the solicitors, he still had a contract with Aviva, 
and he wasnt given the option to instruct his own solicitors. And from the time of their final 
response letter in February 2019 Mr H didnt receive any outbound communication from 
Aviva for nearly two years. So he felt £400 compensation was appropriate for the delay and  
frustration this had caused.
Mr H was happy with our investigators opinion. But Aviva werent. They provided a timeline 
of the actions taken by them and the second firm of solicitors between January 2019 and 
November 2021.
According to that timeline the second set of solicitors first contacted Mr H in January 2019 
and he agreed to them acting on his behalf. Through 2019 the solicitors were trying to 
resolve the case. This wasnt possible and court proceedings were issued in early December 
2019.
The solicitors contacted Mr H in January 2020 with a copy of the defence from the first 
defendant who denied being involved in or having any knowledge of the accident. They send 
Mr H a witness questionnaire and asked for any dates he couldnt attend court.
In March 2020 Aviva say the solicitors received a court order requiring Mr H to identify the 
first defendants driver. They then contacted Mr H who replied saying he didnt have the 
drivers name, but the police had confirmed the driver was male. This led to correspondence 
with the police for details of the driver. And his name was provided on 6 April 2020.  
The first defendants solicitors were then asked to admit the details of the driver, confirm his 
address and that he was covered by her insurance. As they didnt, the solicitors contacted 
the police for the drivers address, and the proceedings were amended to substitute him as 
the first defendant. His solicitors then filed a defence stating he had no knowledge of the 
accident. By this stage it was August 2020.
Mr H complained to Aviva in January 2021 and they passed this on to the solicitors asking 
them to provide him with an update. Which they then provided to Mr H.
In March 2021 the solicitors received notification of a hearing date and informed Mr H this 
would take place on 16 July 2021. The solicitors then dealt with preparation for the hearing. 
This took place remotely and Mr Hs claim against both defendants was successful. The 
hearing ran over, so the judge asked the parties to agree an order. The terms of the order 
agreed resulted in a £350 shortfall in the total amount due to settle Mr Hs claim. Counsel 
agreed to refund this from her fee and Mr H was sent his recovered policy excess on 26 
November 2021.
Aviva had said that based on the information provided by the solicitors its wrong to say they 
struggled to build a competent case. And that the first contact with Mr H about the identity of 
the driver was after the female registered keeper of the vehicle denied being the driver, or 
her car being involved in an accident. And if he did identify the driver as male, this must have 
been to the first firm of solicitors who didnt pass this information on.
Aviva said that Mr H didnt ask for updates. They say the solicitors updated him at key 
stages, apart from the issuing of proceedings in October 2019 and the outcome of the 
hearing. Although they say he was present at that. In saying Mr H had no contact from them for nearly two years Aviva say our investigator 
failed to consider any updates he was receiving from the solicitors. Although they do accept 
that there were delays between January 2019 and early July 2019, when the first solicitors 
didnt reply to the second, and they didnt chase. Then between the end of October 2019 and 
the end of July 2020 when proceedings were issued against the female registered keeper of 
the first vehicle and the driver being substituted as first defendant. And then between August 
2020 and early February 2021 when the solicitors were awaiting directions from the court.
Aviva say that things were slow because of the pandemic but acknowledge that the solicitors 
could have chased the court sooner. Aviva also say that at no point did the court threaten to 
strike out the proceedings. 
Based on the timeline they provided Aviva didnt agree the increase in compensation our 
investigator suggested was reasonable.
Our investigator considered the further information Aviva had provided and issued an 
updated opinion. He said that from the timeline Aviva had provided he could see that the 
solicitors had tried to progress Mr Hs claim, but theyd been some difficulties. But he felt that 
at certain points of the claim the level of communication from both Aviva and the solicitors 
could have been better.
Aviva had said that once solicitors were instructed, they didnt ask for updates. He felt a call 
to the solicitors to check the position and then provide an update to Mr H would have been 
better customer service. Aviva accept that the second solicitors could have done more to 
chase the first solicitors in the early stages of the claim. And that Mr H wasnt updated when 
proceedings were issued, or about the outcome of the hearing.
Our investigator said it wouldnt be fair to say the delays were caused solely by the solicitors 
as other parties and the pandemic had contributed. And Mr H had been getting some 
updates from the solicitors, so he had a better idea of how the claim was progressing than 
he'd initially thought. So while he still thought Mr H was entitled to some compensation for 
delays and lack of updates, he now thought that £250 would be a more appropriate amount.
Mr H wasnt happy with our investigators further opinion as he considered the initial amount 
of compensation our investigator suggested was appropriate. Aviva also werent happy but 
said they were prepared to offer £300, inclusive of the £100 theyd previously offered in 
relation to the difficulties arranging the collection of Mr Hs car for repair and the delivery of a 
hire car.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complains about how Aviva dealt with his request regarding collection of his car for 
repair and the provision of a hire car. Avivas notes say that the way he wanted this to be 
dealt with wasnt usual, but it wasnt unreasonable. So this shouldnt have taken the five 
days and numerous phone calls Mr H has told us he needed to make to sort this out. 
Aviva offered Mr H £100 compensation for the delay and the additional phone calls he 
needed to make which I think is reasonable.
Hes also complained about the way in which his claim has been handled by Aviva and the solicitors they appointed to act on his behalf. Where a case has been passed to solicitors we 
can only consider what the solicitor did in relation to carrying out a contract of insurance. 
This would be limited to looking at customer service and delays, rather than the legal case.
The Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (ICOBS) sets out the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCAs) guidance on how claims should be dealt with by insurers. ICOBS 8.1.1 
states that an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly.
While Mr Hs claim was referred on to solicitors who were pursuing it on his behalf there 
must still be a presumption that the claim will be handled promptly. 
Based on the further information Aviva provided in response to our investigators original 
opinion, it appears that when they replied to his complaint, they hadnt checked with the 
solicitors to see what information and updates had been provided to Mr H. 
Aviva have told us that once a case is passed to solicitors they dont ask for updates, they 
just wait to be told when the case is resolved. It doesnt appear from what theyve told us 
that there was any agreement in place about the updates the solicitors would provide to Mr 
H. I think this was poor customer service and that it contributed to the time it took to resolve 
Mr Hs claim. And I dont think its reasonable for Aviva to say Mr H didnt get updates, as he 
didnt ask for them. He shouldnt have had to.
I accept that there were other factors, such as the pandemic and delays with the other 
parties involved, which contributed to the time it took to resolve Mr Hs claim. Based on the 
timeline Aviva have now provided theyve accepted there were delays between January and 
July 2019, October 2019 and July 2020 and between August 2020 and February 2021. And 
there was another delay they havent acknowledged as after the hearing as Mr H didnt 
receive the refund of his policy excess until November 2021. 
These delays total over 24 months and theyre not accounted for by the outside factors Aviva 
have referred to. Considering all the parties have said I think Mr H has been provided with 
poor customer service and theyve been delays in pursuing his claim. This has led to him 
suffering distress and inconvenience over and above what Id expect in pursuing a claim 
following an accident. And I think the appropriate level of compensation he should receive 
for this is £250, in addition to the £100 previously offered in relation to the delays arranging 
his repairs and car hire.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs claim against Aviva 
Insurance Limited.
And to put things right I require them to pay Mr H £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered as a result of the poor customer service hes received and the 
delays in handling his claim. This is in addition to the £100 Aviva have already offered him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman