DRN-2359885
The complaint
Mr L complains that Funding Circle Ltd provided misleading information regarding his 
crowdfunding account. 
What happened
Mr L opened up a loan-based (peer-to-peer) crowdfunding account with Funding Circle in 
2013. Funding Circle provided an annualised return figure on the summary page of Mr Ls 
account. In April 2019, Mr L complained to Funding Circle as he made his own calculations 
which suggested the annualised return figure was inaccurate. Mr L also raised concerns 
regarding a blog post which provided an example investor who had invested £10,000 on the 
platform and showed the returns they might achieve. Mr L questioned what level of 
diversification was used in the example and was told that the investor lent to under 1,000 
businesses initially. Mr L challenged Funding Circle on the accuracy of this example as no 
more than 0.5% of his total investment was invested into one loan, whereas the example 
investor had no more than 0.1%. Mr L said the blog post was misleading as the example 
investor enjoyed much higher level of diversification as was possible for investors at that 
time.  
Funding Circle considered Mr Ls complaint but didnt uphold it. Funding Circle explained 
that it outlines the limitations to its own calculations on the annualised return page of its 
website. For this reason, it openly invites investors to calculate and monitor their returns as 
they wish. However, it apologised that it would not be able to comment on the alternative 
calculations or verify the methodology of an investors own calculations.
Funding Circle also considered Mr Ls points regarding the blog post. It said the objective of 
the post was to demonstrate to investors that returns change over time and that the return 
journey of a group of small business loans tends to follow a similar journey. Funding Circle 
explained that it created the example investor using historical data which was correct at the 
time of the blog. So Funding Circle was confident that the blog was not misleading.
An investigator at our service looked into Mr Ls complaint but didnt think Funding Circle had 
acted unfairly. She shared the data used by Funding Circle to calculate the annualised return 
figure with Mr L and he noticed that Funding Circle used an internal rate of return for interest 
rather than a return on investment method which hed used in his own calculations. Whilst 
she accepted Funding Circles method was different from Mr Ls, she didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Funding Circle to calculate the annualised return figure in this way. 
She also didnt think the blog post was misleading. She said she was satisfied that the 
purpose of the example was not to predict actual returns and was merely to demonstrate 
that returns can change over a five-year period. She also said Funding Circle had provided 
caveats to the typical example investor - that past performance was not a guide to future 
returns, and the actual returns could be higher or lower as the investor was lending to their 
own portfolio of loans.
Mr L didnt agree with our investigators opinion. In summary, he said:
Funding Circle is intentionally using a method for calculating returns which is more 
flattering when it comes to showing investment performance on the platform than 
those methods used by him and other crowdfunding platforms.  
He maintains that the information in the blog post was misleading as the example is 
based on a level of diversification which is between five and ten times more 
favourable than that which is available to an actual investor. Since greater 
diversification in lending means that the negative effects of bad debt are reduced, the  
example investor is not representative and is therefore misleading.
And so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
our investigator. Ill explain why. 
In deciding this case, Ive taken into account industry good practice and any applicable 
guidance or rules from the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These include 
the Principles for Business (PRIN). Most relevant are:
2.1 A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence; and
2.7 A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and  
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive also considered the obligations set out in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS).
Most relevant are:
2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client; and
4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading.
Mr Ls concerns are around the information provided to him by Funding Circle in regard to 
his annualised return figure, as well as information contained within a blog post on its 
website. As such, I will look at both of these pieces of information in turn with the above 
guidance and rules in mind. 
Annualised return figure
I believe it would be helpful for me to initially explain the role of this service. Our remit is to 
review individual complaints. I can review the impact on a consumer caused by the way a 
business operates but it is outside the authority of this service to tell a business how to 
conduct itself or to dictate its business practices  that would be for FCA to determine. 
As such, my role here isnt to prescribe what method of calculation Funding Circle should 
use when providing Mr L with information on his investment returns. Nor is it to decide 
whether Mr Ls own method or those used by other crowdfunding platforms are superior to 
that used by Funding Circle. Instead, I need to be satisfied that Funding Circle has acted fair 
and reasonable when calculating Mr Ls annualised return figure and that the information it 
has provided him is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Funding Circle has provided our service with a detailed explanation of how it calculates average returns for its investors and having considered this, Im satisfied its calculations are 
fair and reasonable. I say this as Funding Circle has demonstrated that its calculation 
method takes into account relevant considerations such as:
Daily net cash flows
Daily investments in purchasing new lona parts
Daily repayments or recoveries
Gross proceeds of selling of loan parts on the secondary market
Fees paid by the investor
Principle remaining
Interests accrued
Funding Circles detailed explanation has also been shared with Mr L and I understand hes 
unhappy that Funding Circle uses an internal rate of return for interest in its calculations 
rather than a return on investment method used by him and other crowdfunding platforms. 
As Ive already explained, my role isnt to determine which is the best method and I dont see 
anything inherently unfair with using this method as it considers the effects of bad debt and 
fees on his account.  
I also think the information provided by Funding Circle regarding his returns is clear, fair and 
not misleading. Funding Circle explains on its website how it calculates returns and makes it 
clear that there are limitations to its own calculations. It also lets investors know there are 
other methods for evaluating potential investment returns that they could use instead. 
I also think its relevant to consider that how Funding Circle calculates Mr Ls annualised 
return figure has no bearing on the actual returns he receives from his investment. So even if 
I were to uphold Mr Ls complaint, there isnt any financial loss I could practically award to 
him.  Furthermore, Mr L has made his own calculations and so he is fully aware of how his 
investments have actually performed and so he doesnt need to rely on the figures provided 
by Funding Circle. 
Blog post 
The blog post Mr L refers to is an investor update Funding Circle posted on its website 
entitled How investor returns change over time.
Funding Circle has provided our service with a link to the investor update which was updated 
in August 2020. However, Mr L says some of the information contained in the update differs 
from that which he originally complained about. Whilst the original investor update is 
unavailable, the information contained within it isnt disputed. Essentially, the investor update 
provided information on how investor returns change over time and provided a chart to 
demonstrate this over a five-year period. Its important to note that the chart contained no 
figures and so no indication to the actual level of returns were given. 
I understand that Mr L feels quite strongly that this investor update was misleading as the 
example investor enjoyed a higher level of diversification than was possible for an investor 
with Funding Circle to enjoy at the time. Although I think it would have been prudent of 
Funding Circle to have made it clear what level of diversification the example investor 
enjoyed, I dont think this necessarily renders the whole communication misleading. Funding 
Circle says the purpose of the investor update was to demonstrate that returns change over 
time, with returns being at their highest early on, followed by dip caused by bad debt and 
returns eventually improving as recoveries and interest take effect. I accept that the chart 
could possibly have differed if Funding Circle used data with a lower and more realistic level 
of diversification, however I cant be sure to what degree it would have changed. Also, Im 
conscious that the chart didnt provide any concrete figures which supports that Funding Circles intention here was only to provide a general picture of how returns can change over 
time. 
Furthermore, even if I was to agree that the communication wasnt clear, fair and not 
misleading, the counterfactual question I would need to answer is what difference it would 
have made to Mr Ls investment decisions. Thats because my role isnt to punish a business 
even when it has made an error. Instead, as Ive explained above, my role is to assess the 
impact, if any, a business actions have had on an individual. In Mr Ls case, even if Funding 
Circle had disclosed that the example investor had enjoyed a higher level of diversification 
than possible at the time, or it had provided a chart using more accurate data, I dont think it 
would have changed Mr Ls investment decisions. I say this as Mr L had already began 
investing with Funding Circle much earlier than when it posted the investor update and so it 
had no effect on his decision to initially invest. Also, at the time of seeing the investor update 
Mr L wouldve understood how his investment had actually performed and wouldnt have had 
to rely on the information in the investor update. Im also aware he continued to invest with 
Funding Circle even after it had clarified what data it had used to produce the investor 
update. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman