DRN-4066721
The complaint
Miss K complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited failed to deal
adequately with her claim for water damage to her home. I appreciate that the claim itself
was handled by a claims handling company, though as it is the underwriter of the policy, for
convenience Ill mostly refer to AA throughout.
What happened
Miss K reported a claim for water damage to her home to AA on 10 April 2021. AA arranged
for a field surveyor to carry out a site visit and scope the necessary works. At the same time
it arranged for a specialist to carry out asbestos testing. The results of this were negative.
There were issues over the scope of works, particularly regarding the type and colour of the
larder unit. Miss K also said that certain contents had been damaged by the contractors,
these costs were later agreed. She also had trouble in accessing the claims companys
portal. Miss K also alleged that there was damage to her car because the contractors
placed a dust sheet over it causing dust and fibres to be left on the convertible roof. The
contractors organised a valet clean but Miss K wasnt satisfied with the results. The repairs
were completed in July 2021.
Miss K raised issues with AA over the standard of repair. As a result AA sent out a surveyor 
to carry out a site visit to assess the work. Their report, together with a number of 
photographs was sent to AA and to Miss K. This identified some issues in in respect of the 
tall larder unit, some cuts to the vinyl flooring and some paint droplets on the hallway wall. 
Photos of the car showed some marks on the roof and some damage to the paintwork. The 
surveyor assessed that the cost for rectifying the house repairs was £1,474, which AA duly 
settled with Miss K by way of a cash payment.
Four final response letters (FRLs) have been issued:
19 July 2021  This dealt with issues in respect of the end panel of the unit, costs of running 
a dehumidifier, the results of the valet on Miss Ks car and some electrical issues. It said AA 
would pay Miss K £250 for distress and inconvenience and some money for a handyman 
and some damaged contents
As she raised her complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service more than six months
after the date of this letter, and AA hasnt consented to us considering the complaints dealt
with in it, it has been determined that it is not within our jurisdiction to consider the issues
raised in that letter.
27 September 2021  this dealt with the cash settlement Ive set out above.
17 November 2021 - this dealt with the damage to the car, advising Miss K to take it up with
her motor insurer. It also considered an electricians report obtained by Miss K, and dealt
with an issue concerning alleged damage to fascia boards.
2 November 2022 - this set out a list of Ms Ks outstanding complaints following another site
visit. It also recapped some issues mentioned in the previous FRLs  Ill deal with those
below.
Our Investigator considered all the complaints within our jurisdiction and advised that she
considered that AA had dealt with the complaints adequately.
Miss K was concerned that she had previously been told that the issues raised in the three
most recent FRLs would have to be dealt with as separate complaints. AA had said it wanted
to do this but I see that it subsequently changed its view on this and has agreed that all the
issues in those letters can be dealt with together - which I think makes sense.
Miss K further felt that her evidence hadnt been listened to and that the evidence of the
AA/its claim handlers and/or its contractors had been given preference. I understand her to 
man points raised with her in the course of our investigation. My decision is a complete 
review of the case and of her evidence, 
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that AA should pay a further £250 compensation, 
pay £200 for the damage to Miss Ks car, and pay her electricians cost for their site visit.
Both parties responded to my provisional findings. Ill set out their responses in my findings 
below. 
My provisional findings
I should mention the question of evidence before I go on to consider Miss Ks complaints in
detail. The Financial Ombudsman Service acts as an alternative dispute resolution service.
Our function is to resolve complaints informally. However, we dont have the powers of a
court e.g. to require a person to give evidence or to cross examine them under oath. And Im
aware that some of the complaints from Miss K are where she alleges that something was
said to her or done by the contractors and those allegations are denied. In that event,
without further corroborative evidence, I am unlikely to be able to come to a conclusion. This
doesnt mean that she isnt believed  it is simply the case that I cant uphold a complaint
where I dont have the evidence to do so as there are only verbal assertions from the one
party which are denied by the other.
the complaints
I note that 28 complaints are listed in the FRL of 2 November 2022. I think it sensible to
group them together as set out below: 
items dealt with in the FRL of 19 July 2021
item 11 - contractors kept coming back to finish work.
item 16 costs of using a dehumidifier.
As Ive said I have no power to consider these issues, even though Miss K remains
concerned about them.
issues dealt with in the FRL of 27 September 2021
This followed the surveyors visit in August 2021 when they drew up a scope setting out the
issues that needed to be rectified. I understand that Miss K was satisfied with the surveyors
competence. However that surveyors report doesnt, as Miss K thought, say that the entire
work needed to be redone. The report identified issues with the larder cupboard that needed
to be reinstalled and reinstallation of the dishwasher, some minor paint splashes, and some
cuts in the vinyl. It was that surveyor who specifically set out the cash settlement of £1,474,which has been paid to Miss K. Whilst she doesnt think the work can be done for that she
says she isnt in a position to put forward any alternative figure. So on the evidence I have
seen, I think this is a reasonable settlement for those issues, having been determined as it
has by an expert surveyor who viewed the damage.
Im aware that Miss K queries why this figure is so low compared to the original claim cost of
£5,224. However the latter figure was for the entire works, and includes suppliers fees and
report costs.
The items dealt with in the settlement, and explained in the FRL are:
item 3 - the cupboard carcass and end panel.
item 6 (part)  extra timber supports for the boiler.
item 7 - the type of paint used  an allowance for preparation and repainting was included.
item 18 - damaged vinyl sheet  specifically allowed for in the surveyors report.
item 22 - the claim value against the settlement value (as set out above).
issues concerning complaint handling
item 1 - Miss K was upset that she had three different FRLs. However a business under the
complaints handling rules is required to answer each complaint as it is made.
item 23 - Attitude of the complaints handlers. Without being able to listen to any
contemporaneous evidence showing what happened about this Im not in a position to say
how the complaints handlers behaved towards Miss K.
issues where the contractors deny responsibility
I set out below those issues where there is no other evidence confirming or denying this. I
cant, for reasons Ive set out make any finding concerning these:
item 6 - scratching the dishwasher  given its position in the kitchen this could have
happened at any time.
item 8 - contractors refused to wear masks, although this was during the pandemic.
item 10 - curtains put outside the window, curtain pole not fixed.
item 12 - Miss K was not happy that plaster/PVA glue was splashed all over high level units.
Miss K says this has been cleaned and given the contractors denial that they did this I have
no other evidence on which to make a finding.
item 13  contractors used Miss Ks hose gun to mix plaster and it was covered in plaster.
As this wasnt raised at the time its difficult now to make finding about it. I havent seen any
evidence that the hose gun was damaged.
item 15  plasterer threw spiky metal off cuts onto the drive  Miss K noticed this before
driving onto her drive. Miss K has shown us photos of the off cuts but not on the drive so
again I cant make finding about this.
item 21  contractors excessive use of the toilet. Again the contractors deny this and I cantmake a finding about it.
item 27  kitchen not left clean. Again the contractors deny this and there is no evidence of
this, apart from Miss Ks assertion.
issues dealt with in the FRL of 17 November 2021
item 4 - Miss K is adamant that on the surveyors first visit she was told that the oven could
be replaced if it broke down within six months. It broke four months after the repairs and AA
wont pay for it., as it doesnt believe this was linked to the original leak. Miss K had an
electrician look at it but from his report he doesnt say the issues are linked. I would think it
unlikely that a surveyor would give such a categorical assurance. Whilst it was something 
AA should and did consider; I dont think the expert evidence shows that the breakdown of
the oven was linked to the original leak.
item 5 - Miss Ks electrician said that Whilst there I tightened the screws to secure the
consumer unit, without doing this the unit would have burnt out. I think its reasonable to
accept that no other party could have interfered with the unit in the meantime, that it was left
in that condition by AAs contractors. However whilst I note Miss Ks concern, the problem
was rectified quickly and without an incident occurring. So any inconvenience and worry was
minimal  we cant award compensation for what could have happened but didnt. If AA
hasnt paid for the electricians visit it should do so.
item 14  damage to Miss Ks car. She says that she asked the contractors if she should
move her car and they said it would be protected with a dust sheet. She says the convertible
roof was damaged. There are several photos of this and it is clear that the contractors paid
for a valet clean, which Miss K says didnt resolve the problem. She also says some
paintwork was damaged. She was told by AA to make a claim on her motor insurance. I
dont think that was a realistic solution  with the likely excess and increases in premium for
making a claim it doesnt appear to me to be financially viable. Im also not persuaded,
where AA has caused the problem, Miss K should be put to that extra trouble and expense
to resolve things.
Since the contractors were in my view responsible I think it would be reasonable for AA to
pay the cost of repair. Miss K says she was quoted £200 for this but has since traded the car
in and says she lost £500 from the trade in value. However I dont know that this figure was
all directly linked to the damage she says the contractors caused. And if Miss K could have
had the damage repaired for £200 I think it fair that AA should pay that. So Ill direct it to do
so.
item 24  fascia boards. Miss K says they are rotting as a result of the original leak. AAs
surveyor has advised that this is not the case, Miss K has been advised that if she wants to
obtain further evidence about this AA will consider this. I think thats a reasonable position to
take. A decision on whether such damage is covered would need an expert view.
other issues.
item 2  Asbestos tests  AA says Miss K asked for these tests to be made available to her
roofers and it says this wouldnt be done. Miss K insists that she wanted the tests for herself
 for her own peace of mind - and there was a considerable delay in supplying them, which
they were eventually. I have no other details about this  when they were asked for or when
they were supplied. Ill note it as an inconvenience to Miss K.
item 9  cooker hood  Miss K says that this wasnt assembled correctly and the main
contractor had to refit it. Then the electrician had to come back and refit the light fitting.
Whilst annoying I have to look at the situation as it was  a minor inconvenience that wasresolved.
item 17  contents left in bags and placed in dining room and lounge. Miss K says she-cut
her leg, but hasnt shown us any evidence of this. Ive seen the photos of the contents but
Im inclined to think this was part of the works  the work wasnt so extensive to require
these to be put into storage elsewhere.
item 19  recording of the claim on the industry database, CUE (Claims and Underwriting
Exchange) database. AA says only the buildings claim is logged  the small amount of
contents items were a part of that claim  I see no reason to disbelieve that.
item 20  Miss K says she should have been supplied with a water vacuum to clean up the
initial water leak. AA says this wasnt necessary. I have no way of knowing who is right here.
But I can understand it if Miss K felt that such an appliance would have made things easier
for her initially.
item 25  AAs surveyor made her go out in the dark to look at the fascia boards. The
surveyor says this was necessary so he could explain his view on the damage to her and the
distance from the leak. While this may have been annoying I think AAs explanation was
reasonable.
item 26 - Miss K says she was kept waiting for months with half a kitchen and half a
bathroom. AA says it didnt complete any work in the bathroom and only one unit and some
worktops were moved in the kitchen. I think thats reasonable.
item 28  dishwasher leaked on 31 October 2022. As the settlement paid is in part to
address the removal and refitting of the dishwasher and as Miss K has informed us that she
doesnt feel in a position to get the work done yet, I think AAs position is reasonable here.
further inconvenience and distress since the July 2021 FRL.
This FRL specifically awarded compensation for issues up to that date. Since then the
outstanding issues had to be scoped and Miss K sent payment for them, and she had to deal
with her car, a delay in receiving the asbestos test and the consumer unit not being fixed
properly. For those additional issues I think AA should pay a further £250.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
evidence 
I understand Miss K is still unhappy about this. She feels that as she is 100% sure of her 
evidence she should be believed. However I cant rely purely on verbal evidence, because 
for the most part without other evidence it is unreliable, and the further away from the event 
the more unreliable it is. This applies to everyone and is not intended be a slur on Miss Ks 
recollection. So, in my provisional decision I set out various points of complaint where the 
contractors deny responsibility. Whilst noting that Miss K continues to assert her complaints, 
without further evidence I cant make any findings on them.
surveyors report
Miss K says that the surveyor told me verbally that the whole job needed to be done again. 
And that I took much more notice of what she told me verbally than the confirmationemail.
Miss K has copied out the relevant part of the surveyors report. This sets out the original 
scope of work, together with a recommendation for how the matter can be rectified. It doesnt 
say the whole job needed to be redone. I think, as the surveyor carried out a site visit, took a 
number of photos and confirmed their findings soon afterwards that they have reasonably 
set out a settlement for the various issues. Ive noted that Miss K is still unhappy about the 
end panel, but again this is dealt with in the settlement.
electrics
I understand that Miss K was very concerned about the electrics, but as she will appreciate 
that was an issue that was dealt with on the day. Her concern is about what might have 
happened and the competence of AAs contractors. Im sorry that this still upsets her but the 
only appropriate remedy is compensation and I think the compensation award I have made 
adequately covers that.
oven
On the question of the oven, I understand that Miss K believes her own evidence that she 
was told the oven would be replaced if it failed within six months. While she has expanded 
on the conversation she had with them, the surveyor would have known that for any item 
which failed at a later date it would have to be verified as this related back to the original 
claim. And from my experience of such cases, Im not aware of any six months cut-off point. 
So I think that as there isnt evidence that the oven was damaged in the original claim, I cant 
make a finding that AA should take any action concerning this.
damage to car
Miss K says the contractors didnt ask her to move the car or that they would be putting a 
dust sheet over it, and she only discovered this when it was too late. When trading in the car 
she was told the quoted price would be reduced by £500, on inspection, what was pointed 
out was the damage caused by the contractors. It did not even cross her mind to ask for the 
specifics to be put in writing
AA says the contractors told her to move the car, and that the damage was caused by the 
valeting company who Miss K employed. It believes it was right to tell her to claim on her 
insurance.
I think, because AA didnt raise these points until after my provisional findings, Im inclined to 
accept Miss Ks version of events. In any event AA has said the valeting company was to 
blame without providing evidence of this. I still think the contractors were responsible for the 
damage. But as Miss K has advised us she could have got the damage repaired for £200, 
and would then have got full value on trade in, it is right that AA pays this sum only.
asbestos tests 
Miss K says the issue is not of delay but AAs insistence that no such tests had been done 
when it had. Whatever the rights and wrongs of this, no useful purpose would be served by 
analysing this any further. There was a consequent delay in supplying the results which 
caused Miss K some inconvenience. 
I have considered Miss Ks response in detail. If havent mentioned some specific points 
thats because I dont think there would be any point in debating them further, as it wouldnt 
change the overall result.My provisional findings as set out above are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
AA should:
pay Miss K the £43.68 cost of her electricians visit to the property.
pay Miss K £200 for the damage to her car
pay Miss K a further £250 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and to require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman