DRN-3148724
The complaint
Mr H complains about the valuation Tesco Underwriting Limited placed on his car after a 
claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants it increased.
What happened
Mr Hs car was deemed to be beyond economical repair following an accident. Tesco offered 
Mr H the cars market value in settlement of his claim. It said this was £13,385, less the 
policy excess. But Mr H thought Tesco hadnt taken into account the cars optional extras. 
He thought his car was worth about £16,000. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He checked the three 
market guides we use for valuations of Mr Hs car. The average he found was £13,972. So 
he thought Tesco should increase its offer by £587.
Tesco replied that it didnt use all the guides we used, and it thought doing so would treat its 
other customers unfairly. It thought its settlement offer was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. I can see that his 
policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. The Investigator has 
explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but 
look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing secondhand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought Tescos valuation was unfair and should be increased. So Ive 
checked how he came to this conclusion. Our approach for some time has been to look for 
valuations in three market trade guides. I can see that Tesco uses two of these guides. But 
we think using three gives a fair representation of a cars market value. 
When an insurer can provide evidence of the valuations it found in settling a claim, we think 
its fair to rely on these. But Tesco wasnt able to do provide us with evidence showing that it 
had taken into account the correct car details and options. And so we couldnt check that its 
valuations had been carried out correctly. 
So I think the Investigator correctly checked the three market trade guides for cars of the 
same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Hs car at the date of its loss. The 
optional extras listed by Mr H were standard apart from leather seats which added value. 
The guides take into account current market conditions, including the desirability of used 
cars. 
The Investigator then took an average of the three valuations he found. I think this was fair 
and reasonable as there wasnt a significant spread between the valuations. The result was 
£13,972. 
Mr H provided examples of cars similar to his advertised at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
The settlement offer that Tesco offered Mr H was £587 less than the average of the three 
valuations found by the Investigator. So Im satisfied that Tescos valuation of Mr Hs car 
wasnt fair and reasonable. And I think it should increase this.
Putting things right
I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay Mr H £587 more in settlement of his claim for the 
loss of his car.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman