Page 1 of 5The complaint
Miss H has complained that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) didnt 
carry out affordability checks.
Miss H also says Savvy didnt treat her fairly in the way it applied pressure to her to enter 
repayment plans and then by defaulting her account following a stay in hospital.  
What happened
Miss H took one loan from Savvy in March 2016. She borrowed £500 which was due to be 
repaid in 12 monthly payments of £83.33. Miss H has had some repayment problems, and at 
the point Savvy sent this service its file, Miss H still owed it around £413.
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Hs complaint. He didnt uphold her complaint. He 
said, Savvy had carried out proportionate checks before it lent to Miss H. So, he didnt think 
it was wrong of Savvy to have granted the loan.
He also thought that Savvy had treated Miss H fairly when she was having repayment 
problems. When Savvy became aware of her difficulties it agreed a number of repayment 
plans but these werent stuck to. It then defaulted the account, but the adjudicator was 
satisfied this wasnt solely connected to Miss Hs hospital stay.
It appears that Savvy agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Miss H disagreed and in summary she said that she had been unwell, and she doesnt 
believe a default shouldve been added to her credit file in those circumstances.
No agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
DRN-2888462Page 2 of 5But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss H. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish
whether Miss H could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Miss Hs health problems and I do hope that things have now 
improved for her. 
Unaffordable lending
When this loan was approved, Savvy asked Miss H about her income and she declared she 
had an income of £1,804.30 per month. This income was verified as Miss H provided it with 
copies of her wage slips and bank statements. So, Savvy had a fairly good idea of Miss Hs 
actual income. 
Miss H also declared to Savvy that her outgoings were £1,150 per month, leaving a 
disposable income of £654.30 in which to make the payment of £83.33. Solely, based on this 
information Savvy couldve believed Miss H could afford the loan repayments. As it was 
early on in the lending relationship, I dont think it was unreasonable for Savvy to have relied 
on the information she provided. 
Savvy also carried out a credit check, Ive reviewed the results that it received, and there 
wasnt in my view, anything contained within that wouldve led Savvy to have either 
automatically declined the application or have prompted it to have carried out further in-
depth checks. It did seem to be aware of a couple of historic defaults, but these were 
discussed with Miss H on the application phone call. Page 3 of 5Finally, Savvy appears to have obtained copies of Ms Hs bank statements, for the period 
leading up to the loan being approved. Again, Ive reviewed these, I think, given what these 
showed, Savvy wouldve still thought the repayments were affordable for Miss H. 
For this loan, I think Savvy carried out proportionate checks which showed Miss H was likely 
to be able to afford the repayments she was committing to making. I also havent seen any 
further information that shows its likely Savvy was made aware of any financial problems 
Miss H mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate her 
circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Savvy to rely on the information it 
obtained. 
Payment arrangement and default 
Ive not seen Miss Hs credit report, but there isnt a dispute that Savvy has reported adverse 
information on her credit file, which includes a default. 
The crux of Miss Hs complaint around this this issue is that when she was ill in hospital 
Savvy didnt help her. She felt pressured to make repayments and feels its unfair that Savvy 
has defaulted her account when it knew she was ill. 
I havent outlined every repayment plan that was agreed. But, it seems Savvy was aware of 
Miss Hs hospital stay in August 2016. It took this on board and in my view treated her fairly 
and it didnt default the account at this time. It put a hold on the account for 30 days. And it 
agreed to lower Miss Hs payments from the contractual amount to £60. The first payment 
was made, and then the next one (due in September) failed. 
At this point, Savvy was aware of a change in her financial situation, Miss Hs partner was 
out of work, Savvy appears to have responded to this by agreeing another repayment plan 
but this time for a smaller amount  an amount that Miss H says she couldve afforded of 
£20. 
A further payment was made in October of £60. But then Savvy didnt hear from Miss H until 
December. After December 2016 a number of repayment plans have been agreed, for 
different sums, but at various times and for different reasons the plans failed.
Im sorry to hear that Miss H felt pressured. But I havent quite seen enough evidence to 
support that. Overall, it looks like Savvy took on board what Miss H was telling it about her 
situation and adjusted the repayments accordingly. It also provided information about 
obtaining third party debt advice. I think this was the correct course of action to take and was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
 
Turning to the default. It isnt in dispute that Miss H missed her contractual payments but in 
order to see whether Savvy was right or wrong to have recorded the default. Ive looked at 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance about what information should or 
shouldnt be reported to credit reference agencies (CRA). 
The ICO is the body responsible for issuing guidance about what information should or 
shouldnt be reported to credit reference agencies (CRA).  This information can be found in 
its guidance entitled Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at 
Credit Reference Agencies.
Principle two explains the following;
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the 
agreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported Page 4 of 5to the CRAs as being in arrears. If this continues over time, the level of reported 
arrears will increase, which may result in the lender taking some form of action. This 
could include notification of their intention to report the account as defaulted
It's clear, to me, that Miss H had missed payments, and while there was a legitimate reason 
for her doing that doesnt, prevent Savvy from reporting adverse information to the CRAs. 
Principle four, then goes on to explain when a default may be recorded with the CRAs;
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally 
by the time you are 6 months in arrears. There are exceptions to this which may 
result in a default being recorded at a later stage, such as secured or long term loans 
e.g. mortgages, or if the product operates in a more flexible way e.g. current 
accounts, student loans, home credit. If an arrangement is agreed (see Principle 3 
above), a default would not normally be registered unless the terms of that 
arrangement are broken.
But, there are occasions where the ICO thinks a default ought not be recorded. Principle 
three further explains; 
A default should not be filed: 
If you make a payment, in time, that fully meets the terms set out in the default notice
If jointly with the lender an agreement is reached for an arrangement and you keep to 
the terms of that arrangement
In this case, Im satisfied that by the time the default was sent to Miss H in March 2017 that 
she was at least six months in arrears  that meaning she was in arrears of at least six 
contractual repayments. And, this is important, Miss H had agreed and not been able to stick 
to three repayment plans before the default noticed was sent. So I dont think, in this case, 
the information in principle three wouldve prevented Savvy from recording a default. 
Then after Savvy received, another plan (after the default notice was issued) was agreed 
and then failed again. I dont doubt, given what Miss H has told that her financial position at 
the time was precarious, But, there isnt anything in the ICO rules that wouldve prevented 
Savvy from defaulting the account. 
Indeed, given the way the account had been managed, I think it was reasonable for Savvy to 
have defaulted the account when it did. And while Miss Hs stay in hospital in 2016 wouldve 
contributed to the arrears, the stay, on its own, wasnt the sole reason why the account was 
defaulted. 
Savvy has shown this service that an outstanding balance remains, and Id remind it of its 
obligation to treat Miss H fairly while dealing with her moving forward.
 
I appreciate Miss H will be disappointed by the outcome that Ive reached but I hope shes 
found my explanation useful as to why Ive reached the outcome that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 Page 5 of 5Robert Walker
Ombudsman