DRN-4408696
The complaint
Mr R complains that ITI Capital Limited (ITI) has delayed selling his investments. 
What happened
Mr R held several pension investments with a broker which went into administration in 
August 2019. Following this, these investments were transferred to ITI in July 2020. Mr R 
was unable to access his pension due to ITI facing technical issues relating to the migration 
of clients accounts. Mr R raised a complaint about this in October 2020 which ITI upheld 
and offered £175 compensation. Mr R accepted this. 
Mr R raised another complaint with ITI in July 2021 as he was unable to sell his fractional 
shares. 
ITI didnt respond within the eight-week timeframe and so Mr R referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review. 
An investigator at this service considered Mr Rs complaint and upheld it. In summary, they 
said:
ITI took on Mr Rs account despite not having the facility to trade fractional shares. 
This was outside Mr Rs control as he hadnt selected ITI as his SIPP provider.
It would have been fair and reasonable for ITI to put an early process in place for 
clients with investments it wouldnt be able to support. As it didnt, they felt it let Mr R 
down.
ITI has left the UK retail client market, so Mr R has no option but to transfer his 
account out. He is also aware that he will need to find a new SIPP provider which will 
be able to accept his fractional shares.
They acknowledged that Mr R had been trying to access his account to sell the 
fractional shares, so he could use the money in his pension. He was initially unable 
to access his account, and when he could ITI was unable to arrange the sale of his 
fractional shares. So they felt ITI should compensate him a further £175 for the 
additional distress and inconvenience caused. 
Both Mr R and ITI accepted the investigators findings. However, despite chasing ITI several 
times for payment, it has failed to pay Mr R the compensation the investigator 
recommended. As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted what the investigator has recommended. I have nothing further 
to add, other than to say I agree that the investigators recommendation is fair and 
reasonable. I say this as I understand ITI has been trying to find a solution for Mr T, despite 
it not being able to trade fraction positions. However, I do think the delay in finding a solution 
has caused Mr T some distress and inconvenient which has been exacerbated by the 
original delays he encountered in accessing his account with ITI. 
Putting things right
ITI should pay Mr R £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct ITI Capital Limited to pay Mr R the 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman