DRN-4054310
The complaint
Mr K complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund transactions he says he didnt make 
or authorise.
What happened
What Mr K says
Mr K says that his business account at a different firm was blocked for reasons he wasnt 
aware of. As a result, Mr K moved funds from his business account to his TSB account. On 6 
August 2022 the balance of Mr Ks TSB account was just under a pound. After the transfers 
into the account the balance rose to nearly £45,000.
Mr K says he received a call purporting to be from TSB on 19 August 2022. At the time he 
thought it was genuine. He was asked whether hed made certain transactions on his 
account outside of the area he lives. He says he was taken through security and asked to 
provide characters from his memorable information and had to provide them three or four 
times as he was told his answers were incorrect. Mr K says the caller told him his card would 
be cancelled and hed receive a new one within five working days. After this call Mr K says 
he was unable to access internet banking, which he thought was normal in these 
circumstances. 
Mr K didnt receive a new card and called TSB on 27 August 2022 to chase it up. He was 
told that a new card hadnt been ordered and TSB didnt call him on 19 August 2022. When 
Mr K regained access to his internet banking he noted transactions from his account that he 
didnt recognise that almost cleared his balance. A new mobile phone had also been 
registered to his account. Mr K raised a claim in respect of the following transactions from 
his TSB account to the account of someone with the same surname as Mr K but a different 
first name:
Date Amount
22/08/22 £4,995
23/08/22 £5,150
23/08/22 £24,000
25/08/22 £11,000
26/08/22 £3,800
Total £48,945
What TSB say
TSB held Mr K responsible for the disputed transactions. It said there was no point of 
compromise to his device, and it didnt see how a third party had access to the one-time 
passcode that was sent to Mr Ks registered mobile device on 19 August 2022. The 
passcode was sent as part of the process to change the device registered to Mr Ks account. 
TSB apologised for the fact Mr K had to speak to multiple agents to raise a claim and sent 
him a cheque for £25 to compensate for this. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. On 
balance, he felt Mr K authorised the transactions, so TSB acted reasonably in not refunding 
them. This was because there was no explanation for how a fraudster could have obtained 
the one-time passcode to register a new device and make the transactions. The investigator 
also questioned how a third party would have known the answers to security questions 
posed by TSB when some of the disputed transactions were made. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators findings. He said scammers are able to buy personal 
information and that a scammer could have seen transfers from his business account on his 
statement and looked up what his company did. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that TSB can hold Mr K liable for the 
disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made or 
authorised them.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and 
for broadly the same reasons.
There is no evidence to support a third party gaining access to Mr Ks account to make the 
transactions he disputes. When a new device was registered on 19 August 2022 a one-time 
passcode was sent to Mr Ks mobile number. A new device couldnt be registered without 
this code. Mr K says he didnt receive this number or pass it on, but I cant see how a new 
device was registered without his involvement. Personal information would also have been 
required to log into Mr Ks account to make transfers. Mr K has said he hasnt shared this 
kind of information. 
When the transactions on 22 and 23 August 2022 were made TSB blocked them and spoke 
to someone who said he was Mr K to release them. Ive considered the calls on these dates 
and am not persuaded that a third party or someone acting without Mr Ks authority would 
have been able to accurately answer all the security questions TSB asked. During the two 
calls the caller who asked for Mr Ks account to be unblocked and for the disputed payments 
to be made was able to provide correct answers to questions like: 
- Name
- Address
- Email address
- Debit card expiry date
- Employment and occupation
- How long Mr K had banked with TSB
- Whether statements were received in the post
- Location and device used when the payment was attempted- Amount credited to the account on a specified date
- Amount spent at a specific garage
- Whether an overdraft was in place
- How the account was opened
- Mr Ks phone network
Im not satisfied an unknown third party making a payment without Mr Ks consent and 
authority would know these details. Mr K has referred to the fact that some details TSB 
asked for are easy to find and that personal details are sold illegally. Whilst I accept this 
point, Im not persuaded that an unknown third party could access all the information listed 
above. I also note that Mr K says that when he received the fake call from TSB he was 
asked for his memorable passcode and kept getting it wrong. The implication here is that the 
fraudster was able to pass security questions using this information. But Mr Ks memorable 
passcode wasnt used during conversations with TSBs fraud department to release the 
payments. TSB asked for some characters and as Mr K got them wrong asked alternative 
security questions.    
Ive also listened to the call Mr K made to TSB on 27 August 2022 when he said hed not 
received the new card he expected following the TSB call the previous week. Whilst the 
caller sounds like Mr K, Im not a voice expert so cant say whether this caller is the same 
person who spoke to TSB when transactions were blocked, so wont make a finding on this 
point. 
Im not persuaded that the pattern of spending on Mr Ks account after his funds credited his 
TSB account is in line with what Id expect of a fraudster. Fraudsters usually move as much 
money as they can as quickly as possible to avoid the possibility of a victim discovering a 
loss and reporting it before funds are moved on. This wasnt what happened here though. 
The disputed transactions were made over a period of five days. During this time, Mr K didnt 
log into his account and notice what was happening.
It's also unclear how a third party would have known that Mr K had credited his account with 
substantial funds. And whilst it could well be a coincidence, the payments from Mr Ks TSB 
account were credited to the account of someone with the same initial and surname as Mr K.  
Overall, Im not persuaded on the available evidence that the transactions Mr K disputes 
were completed by a third party without his knowledge and so I cant reasonably ask TSB to 
refund them. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman