DRN-2679321
The complaint
Mr N has complained about his home insurer esure Insurance Limited (Esure) as it 
completed poor work at his home when he had a leak on an external pipe, and wouldnt 
agree liability for a further leak.
What happened
Mr N told Esure he could hear water running, it was determined that there was a leak on the 
mains supply within the boundary of Mr Ns property but before the houses stopcock. Esure 
sent contractors to fix the pipe and it was decided it had to be re-routed, with some 
re-connection being needed in the kitchen. Mr N was unhappy with the contractors  he said 
they damaged his gate, splashed dust and concrete around, cut and stained his driveway 
and path. 
The contractors accepted that further work was needed at Mr Ns home; to clean up and 
make good some untidy pipework. Some minor leaks were then found on the plumbing 
under the sink which the contractors also agreed to resolve  but Mr N did this himself. Mr N 
also found a leak in the piping under the kitchen floor. He thought this meant Esure hadnt 
fixed the original leak and/or that it had caused another. Esure felt this was a new and 
separate leak but when Mr N wasnt minded to make a further claim for it, Esure agreed to, 
under the current claim, settle his costs for finding and repairing the leak.
Mr N was unhappy, he felt Esure had put him through a lot and this had had a significant 
effect on him. He explained that on one occasion the contractors had gone away without 
switching the water back on. He said hed had to chase and keep an eye on them, and it had 
all been very disruptive to his working day. He didnt feel it was right for it to have acted like 
this, especially not as he pays a lot for insurance which had recently gone up due to the 
claim and hed paid an excess.
Esure made payments to Mr N to reimburse his costs. It accepted that it could have handled 
the claim better and offered Mr N £150 compensation. Mr N complained to us. In doing so he 
confirmed that Esure had reimbursed all his costs, but his concern was that its compensation 
hadnt sufficiently made up for everything hed been through.
Our investigator felt that Esure could have handled things better, and if it had much of Mr Ns 
distress and inconvenience would have been avoided. She said Esure should pay a further 
£200, making its total compensation £350. 
Esure said given it had paid Mr Ns costs for repairing the second leak, really it had already 
paid a total £610 compensation. Our investigator advised she did not agree that the 
reimbursement of costs equated to compensation. 
 
Mr N said £200 wasnt enough, compensation should be more in the region of £2,000. He 
said that was not least because he had saved Esure money by doing most of the work 
himself. Our investigator maintained that a further £200 was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and in line with this services awards in similar cases.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see Esure reimbursed Mr Ns costs. Whilst I note it did this as a good will gesture, that 
doesnt mean it is counted as compensation for distress and inconvenience. Financial loss 
and upset are considered separately. So I dont agree that Esure has already paid Mr N 
£610 for distress and inconvenience; its paid £150.
I appreciate that this was a difficult time for Mr N, and I think its clear that Esure made 
failings during this claim. Whilst it fixed the poor work it completed initially that didnt remedy 
the detrimental affect those actions had on the relationship between it and Mr N. Mr N, quite 
naturally, I think, lost faith in Esures ability to complete all the necessary repairs  and it 
even caused him to doubt its response to the new leak which was found. I think its fair to 
say that Esures actions caused Mr N quite a lot of distress and inconvenience. Im not 
persuaded that £150 fairly and reasonably makes up for that.
I note Mr N would like compensation in the region of £2,000. Whilst I dont seek to diminish 
what hes experienced and felt, Im not persuade that is a fair and reasonable sum in the 
circumstances here. 
A claim will usually mean an excess has to be paid and quite often an increase in premiums 
will result. Having a loss which results in a claim will always cause some level of 
inconvenience and involve a certain amount of in-put and attention from the policyholder. 
This may naturally impact on working arrangements and cause some temporary disruption 
and mess. But all that should be limited and mess should be cleared up without the 
policyholder having to chase matters and/or having to resort to doing things themselves. 
I have to balance the upset that should have been experienced as a natural part of the claim 
against that which occurred due to Esures failings. I also have to take into account awards 
made by this service in other similar circumstances. In my experience, when considering 
property insurance complaints, awards of compensation totalling more than £1,000 are 
usually only made, for example, where a policyholder has had to live away from home or in 
an uninhabitable home for many months more than they should ever have had to. Here Mr N 
became very unhappy because of Esures actions; he was anxious for things to be put right 
and had to chase Esure, and he shouldnt have been left without water. Im satisfied that 
total compensation of £350 (Esure already having paid £150) is fairly and reasonably due.
 
Putting things right
I require Esure to pay Mr N a further £200 compensation, making total compensation paid on 
this claim £350.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to pay the redress set out above at 
Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman