DRN-3694167
The complaint
Miss A complains about difficulties she had making online payments with a debit card issued 
by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). Miss A feels Halifax didnt try to help her resolve 
the problem.
What happened
In February 2022 Miss A contacted Halifax about problems she was having making online 
payments using her debit card. She said shed had multiple payments declined from different 
merchants.  
Halifax were unable to identify any issues or restrictions on Miss As account, and concluded 
the declined payments were not instigated by the bank. Miss A replaced her phone, which 
was running on an older operating system, and had new cards issued. But she still 
encountered problems. 
Miss A complained but was unhappy with Halifaxs response. She brought her complaint to 
this service. Our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong, so Miss A asked 
for an ombudsman to review her case and issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Miss As complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge the strength of feeling Miss A has about whats happened. I 
appreciate the situations been very frustrating for her and she feels poorly treated by 
Halifax.
Miss A thinks her payments were declined because of something for which Halifax was 
responsible. So I have to decide if thats the case. 
Halifax has provided an account of the checks it undertook when Miss A raised her queries. 
It confirmed her card was active and there was nothing on its systems to show any blocks or 
markers on her account. It was satisfied the declined payments were not as a result of any 
bank action. Ive also seen evidence to show that no transactions were declined by the bank 
in the 90 days prior to a check in March 2022. So from what Ive seen, I dont think Halifax 
was responsible for the problems Miss A had. 
I accept Miss A and Halifax discussed the device she was using and which operating system 
she had. Id expect a business to go over such matters with a customer, by way of trying to 
assist in identifying potential issues that may be relevant. But ultimately, it wasnt Halifaxs 
role, nor was it in a position to diagnose exactly why Miss A encountered problems. It was 
only responsible for identifying whether there were any relevant bank issues or errors. And 
having reviewed its systems, it could find no evidence to suggest that was the case.
I appreciate Miss A was left with unanswered questions and without a clear explanation as to 
what went wrong. I also appreciate Miss A bought a new phone, hoping this would resolve 
things, and wants Halifax to cover the cost of it. But ultimately, it was Miss As decision to 
upgrade. 
I accept this was an upsetting experience for Miss A, who was embarrassed and 
inconvenienced when her payments were declined. She also spent time trying to resolve 
things with Halifax. But I can only award compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Miss A experienced as a consequence of problems with her card, where those problems 
were caused by Halifax. And as Ive explained above, I dont think thats the case here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss As complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman