DRN-4357512
The complaint
Mr W and his relative, Mr W (who Ill refer to respectively as Mr W1 and Mr W2), complain 
that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly rejected a claim on their motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W1 had a motor insurance policy with Advantage. Mr W2 was a named driver on the 
policy. In June 2022 Advantage received a notification from the police that they had 
recovered Mr W1s car following a collision a couple of days earlier. Shortly afterwards, the 
insurers of the other vehicle involved in the collision contacted Advantage to say that the 
accident had been caused by Mr W1s car veering onto the wrong side of the road. They 
said that Mr W2, who was driving the car, had been arrested at the scene for drink driving.
Mr W1 made a claim on the policy in January 2023. Advantage spoke to Mr W2, who said 
hed taken a breathalyser test at the scene of the accident which recorded that he was over 
the legal alcohol limit. He said hed been cautioned for drink driving, but a blood test taken 
shortly afterwards had shown him to be under the limit.
Advantage told Mr W1 and Mr W2 that it wouldnt cover the claim. They objected to 
Advantages decision, on the grounds that Mr W2 wasnt charged for drink driving, and the 
blood test showed him to be under the limit.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She 
didnt think Advantage had carried out a fair investigation before turning down the claim. She 
said roadside breathalyser results arent always accurate, and Advantage hadnt carried out 
any investigation to check that the breathalyser reading was accurate and reliable in this 
case. So she said Advantage should request the police report, analyse the test results and 
reconsider the claim.
Advantage disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W1, 
Mr W2 and to Advantage on 18 August 2023. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage has pointed to the policy wording, which says:
Youre not covered if an accident happens while you or anyone entitled to drive 
under your current Certificate of Motor Insurance:
Is found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol or drugs in the country 
where the incident happens
Is driving while unfit through alcohol, drugs or other substances, whether 
prescribed or not
Mr W2 has pointed out that the police didnt prosecute him for drink driving. But the 
terms and conditions of the policy dont state that hed have needed to be prosecuted 
or found guilty of drink-driving in court for Advantage to decline the claim.
However, based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied that Advantage carried out a fair 
investigation to determine whether Mr W2 was, in fact, over the prescribed limit for 
alcohol at the time of the accident before deciding to decline the claim.
It isnt in dispute that the reading from Mr W2s roadside breathalyser test was over 
the limit. But roadside breathalysers arent 100% accurate. The legal alcohol limit in 
the UK is 35 micrograms of alcohol per 100 millilitres of breath. I havent been given 
details of how much over the limit the breathalyser reading was. Nor have I seen 
anything to suggest that Advantage had a record of this.
As Advantage itself has commented, there are various factors that need to be 
considered, including the interval between the breathalyser test and the blood test. 
But Ive seen no evidence that it had any record of the blood test results or of the 
respective timings of the two tests.
If Advantage had based its decision on evidence that Mr W1s breathalyser test was 
significantly over the limit and there was a long gap between the breathalyser test 
and the blood test, then I might have taken the view that it was fair to conclude that 
Mr W2 was over the limit, and to turn down the claim. But based on what Ive seen, it 
seems to me that although Mr W2 told Advantage that hed had a blood test, 
Advantage decided to decline the claim purely on the grounds that Mr W1 had failed 
the roadside breathalyser test.
I asked Advantage to explain why it hadnt obtained a copy of the police report. And 
I asked it for a copy of the breathalyser reading. It didnt respond. So I have no way 
of knowing how far over the limit the breathalyser reading was. Ive seen a redacted 
copy of Mr W2s blood test results, but it doesnt show a time. It does, however, show 
Mr W2 to have been comfortably under the limit when the blood test was carried out. 
And blood tests are generally considered to be more accurate than roadside 
breathalyser readings.
Advantage has referred to Mr W2 having been unfit to drive at the time of the 
accident. But it hasnt provided any evidence to back this up. And given that I dont 
think it did enough to establish whether it was likely that Mr W2 was actually over the 
limit when the accident happened, I dont think it was fair of it to decline the claim.
It seems to me that the fair thing to do here is for Advantage to pay the claim. I also 
think it should pay Mr W1 £150 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience of having his claim unfairly declined.
And I said that Advantage should put things right by doing as Ive set out in the Putting 
things right section below.
Further submissions
Mr W2 has told us that he accepts my provisional decision. Mr W1 hasnt provided any 
further comments. But Advantage says it disagrees with my provisional decision. Advantage says that Mr W2 himself accepted when he spoke to it that he was over the legal 
limit for alcohol when he took the roadside breathalyser test. And it says Mr W2s admission 
is the evidence that its relying on. 
Advantage says that the policy term that it is applying is that Mr W2 was driving while unfit 
through alcohol at the time of the incident. It says that whether or not he was over the limit, 
Mr W2 had alcohol in his system which is an attributing factor to the incident, so it believes 
it was correct to decline the cover.
Advantage says Mr W2 would have received charge sheets from the police at the time of 
his arrest and documents confirming the results of his tests.
But Mr W2 says he wasnt given a charge sheet, as he wasnt arrested. He says that after 
the blood test, he was released without charge. He says the only information the police have 
given him was the result of the blood test, which hes already provided. He says hes 
provided us with all the information hes had throughout the case, and cant provide 
information hes never been given.
Advantage has commented that it finds it hard to believe the police wouldnt have given 
Mr W2 any documentation. And its suggested that Mr W2 may have been given documents 
which hes not provided because they prove Advantages point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the further points that Advantage has made, but having done so, my view 
remains unchanged.
Crucially, I dont accept Advantages contention that Mr W2 accepts that he was over the 
limit when he took the breathalyser test. Mr W2s accepts that the breathalyser reading was 
over the limit. But his argument throughout has been that this cant be relied on to show that 
he was, in fact, over the limit, as roadside breathalysers arent fully reliable. And hes said 
throughout that the fact that a blood test shortly after the incident showed him to be 
significantly under the limit suggests that the breathalyser reading was unreliable.
Following receipt of my provisional decision, Advantage provided us with a recording of the 
phone call in which Mr W2 told it about what happened. Ive listened to the recording, but it 
only goes to reinforce my view that the complaint should be upheld. 
During the call, Mr W2 told Advantage that the roadside breathalyser result was slightly 
over the limit. Advantages call handler responded Because you have confirmed that you 
were over the limit, it doesnt matter that you were only slightly over. Because you were over 
there is no cover for the claim. And she said that Advantage wouldnt spend any more 
money trying to get a police report to confirm this information. We wont get in contact with 
the police because we are not going to cover it. The call handler told Mr W2 that it didnt 
matter that Advantage didnt have the blood test results because youve confirmed you were 
over the limit and thats all we need. Mr W2 said that the blood test had been carried out 
about half an hour after the breathalyser, to which the call handler responded Anyting else 
from the police is not going to change that decision.
Its apparent that once Mr W2 had told Advantage that the roadside breathalyser reading 
was slightly over the limit, it decided that it decline his claim and seek to recover the costs of 
the third partys claim from him, and nothing would change its mind.The policy didnt explain what it meant by unfit through alcohol, as distinct from being over 
the legal alcohol limit. Nor did it explain how this would be determined. I dont accept that it 
was reasonable of Advantage to conclude that Mr W2 was unfit to drive through alcohol 
simply because there was alcohol in his system at the time of the accident. Nor am 
I satisfied that it was fair of it to conclude, with no effective investigation, and without sight of 
a police report or any test results, that the alcohol in Mr W2s system contributed to the 
accident.
Im not convinced that theres any good reason to think that Mr W2 has withheld information, 
as Advantage has suggested. Ive listened to recordings of phone calls Mr W2 had with both 
Advantage and the investigator, and I find what he says persuasive. He told the investigator 
that hed tried to get more details from the police, but that the police had said that it was the 
insurers job to ask for that information, but that insurers were sometimes reluctant to do that 
because it cost money. That seems to be borne out by what Advantages call handler said to 
Mr W2 in the call Ive referred to above.
In the end, the police sent Mr W2 a heavily redacted copy of his blood test results. But Id 
normally expect the police to be able to share more information with the insurance company 
than with the insured. And I think if Advantage had requested the information that it should 
have done from the police, it would likely have indicated how far above the limit the 
breathalyser reading was, and how much time elapsed between the breathalyser test and 
the blood test. Given that it knew Mr W2s blood test showed him to be comfortably under 
the legal alcohol limit, I dont consider that it was fair of Advantage to decline the claim 
without that information. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Advantage should:
Settle Mr W1s claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy;
Add interest to the money paid in settlement at a rate of 8% simple per year*, 
calculated from one month after the date on which the claim was made until the date 
the settlement is paid; and
Pay Mr W1 £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
*If HM Revenue and Customs requires Advantage to deduct tax from this interest, 
Advantage should give Mr W1 a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for 
one.
For the avoidance of doubt, Advantage should not pursue Mr W1 or Mr W2 for recovery of 
any payment it made in connection with the third-party claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W1 and Mr W2 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Juliet CollinsOmbudsman