DRN-3621292
The complaint
Ms D complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a claim she made on a 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D was due to go on a package tour to a country Ill call N between 20 and 29 March 
2020. She took out an annual Snowcard travel insurance policy to provide cover between 9 
March 2020 and 8 March 2021.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. And on 13 March 2020, Ns government announced that any non-nationals 
arriving in the country would be subject to a 14-day compulsory quarantine. So Ms Ds trip 
was cancelled. The package provider refunded a portion of Ms Ds trip costs and her airline 
refunded her flight costs in full. So Ms D made a claim on her travel insurance policy for her 
remaining costs.
Ageas turned down Ms Ds claim. It considered the claim under the Travel Disruption 
heading. But this section of the policy specifically excluded trips which were booked as part 
of a package. So Ageas said the claim wasnt covered.
Ms D was unhappy with Ageas decision and she felt the policy wording was unclear and 
conflicting. So she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Ds complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Ms Ds 
claim was covered by the cancellation section of the policy. She thought Ms Ds trip had 
been booked as part of a package. And she was satisfied that the Travel Disruption cover 
clearly excluded claims where the trip had been booked as a package. So she thought itd 
been fair for Ageas to turn down Ms Ds claim.
Ms D disagreed. She maintained that the Travel Disruption cover was in conflict with the 
exclusion for package holidays.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms D, I think it was fair for Ageas to turn down 
her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of the policy and the circumstances of Ms Ds claim, to decide whether 
Ageas treated her fairly. 
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Ms Ds policy, as these form the basis of the 
contract between Ms D and Ageas. I appreciate that when Ms D booked her trip, the 
circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have been foreseen by either 
policyholders or insurers. 
But no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what 
level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, Ageas 
obligations under its contract with Ms D are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions 
which are set out in the policy. 
Ms D didnt take out an all-risks policy. This means that Ageas has set out the specific, listed 
insured events its chosen to cover if a policyholders holiday is cancelled or disrupted.
Its clear that Ms D feels her claim should be met under the Travel Disruption cover set out 
on page 12 of the policy. This says:
If during the period of insurance your travel plans are disrupted by unexpected events and 
you do not benefit from the protection offered by a package holiday you will be covered 
for costs incurred by you which are not recoverable from the accommodation providers, the 
booked scheduled transport operator, their booking agents, your tour operator or travel 
agent or for which you have not received or are not expected to receive compensation, 
reimbursement, damages, refund of tickets, accommodation, transfers or other assistance. 
In my view, the policy clearly sets out that Travel Disruption cover applies if a policyholder 
hasnt booked a package holiday. I dont think this term indicates that Ageas covers travel 
disruption for package trips. As the investigator explained, package holidays are generally 
protected by the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR). 
Effectively, the Regulations say that in certain circumstances, the travel provider is 
responsible for providing a full refund for holidays which cant be provided.
And Ageas has also set out the specific things its chosen to exclude from Travel Disruption 
cover on page 14. One of these is:
Any costs if your trip was booked as part of a package holiday.
So Ive gone on to consider whether I think it was fair for Ageas to treat Ms Ds holiday as a 
package. Generally, a package holiday would be considered to be a holiday contract that 
includes two or more travel services, which are combined for the purposes of the same trip. 
The travel provider is liable for the performance of these services. Ive looked closely at the 
booking itinerary Ms D provided to us. I can see that the tour included transfers; meals; tours 
and accommodation. So I think it was fair for Ageas to conclude that Ms Ds trip was a 
package holiday. And it follows that I find it was reasonable for Ageas to conclude that Ms 
Ds claim was specifically excluded from cover.
I appreciate that Ms Ds tour provider didnt refund her full trip cost and so shes been left out 
of pocket. Its unclear whether Ms D or the tour provider cancelled the trip and therefore, 
whether the protections of the PTR applied to the terms of Ms Ds booking contract. But the 
policy specifically excludes package holidays from Travel Disruption cover, so I dont think 
this is relevant in any event.
It's clear how strongly Ms D feels that the policy terms Ive set out above are conflicting. But I 
disagree. I find that the two terms are corroborative and that they individually and collectively 
make it clear that Ageas doesnt provide Travel Disruption cover for package holidays. And 
therefore, whilst I sympathise with Ms Ds position, I dont think Ageas acted unfairly when it 
turned down her claim.Ms D has referred to the fact that the 2021 policy wording relating to Travel Disruption cover 
changed and there was no longer an exclusion for package holidays. However, Ms Ds claim 
was made in March 2020 and her policy began on 9 March 2020 The 2021 policy wording 
clearly states that it applies to policies issued after 6 November 2020. This means it isnt 
applicable to Ms Ds claim. And as Ive explained, its for an insurer to decide what risks it 
does and doesnt want to cover.
Ms D told us that the clarity of the Travel Disruption wording was the subject of her complaint 
to us. For completeness though, Ive considered whether there was cover under any other 
section of her policy. I dont think there was. The cancellation form Ms D completed says that 
the trip was cancelled due to the imposition of quarantine restrictions on non-nationals by 
Ns government. This isnt something which the cancellation section of the policy covers. 
Indeed, Ageas has chosen to specifically exclude claims which arise because of government 
regulation. And I simply dont think theres cover under any other part of Ms Ds policy.
So overall, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Ageas to 
pay Ms Ds claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman