DRN-2411241
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) unfairly refused to pay her 
claim for vet fees under her pet policy.
What happened
Mrs C took out a free five- week pet policy with Agria when she bought her dog. It provided 
cover for vet fees from 28 April 2019 to 1 June 2019 expiring at midnight that day. 
Unfortunately Mrs Cs dog became ill on 1 June which was a Saturday and was taken to the 
vet at around 4pm. He was then transferred to the emergency vet at around 5.30pm. The 
emergency vet decided by around 10pm that he needed an operation to remove some 
foreign objects he had swallowed. Mrs C was informed around 2am the next morning that he 
was safely out of surgery. 
Mrs C made a claim to Agria. It told her it wouldnt pay for any vet fees incurred after 
midnight on 1 June 2019. Whilst Mrs C had already decided not to buy a full policy with Agria 
once this five-week free cover policy had ended and had made alternative arrangements 
with another provider, she said she tried to buy the continuation policy that night online via 
the website and it failed to go through.
So Mrs C didnt think it was fair Agria wouldnt pay the whole claim and complained. Agria 
wouldnt change its stance so Mrs C brought her complaint to us. The investigator thought it 
should be upheld on a fair and reasonable basis.
Agria disagreed so Mrs Cs complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 October 2020 and I said the following:
Im not intending to uphold this complaint, Ill now explain why.
Heres its not the situation that Mrs C wasnt aware her free five-week cover was due 
to end, or indeed that she had forgotten, or anything like that. Mrs C had already 
arranged alternative cover with another provider presumably to start when this one 
expired. So she had already researched the market and made her decision on which 
provider she preferred.
She confirmed she was also aware that almost all pet policies provide no cover for
conditions giving rise to a claim which start before the cover started, so her new 
policy would not cover any vet fees for this illness or any issues flowing from it, which 
her dog sadly suffered.
However Mrs C thinks because the event happened when she was covered by 
Agrias policy it should cover the whole of her claim. I dont agree. There is no 
obligation in this policy to do this provide any cover to Mrs C for vet fees incurred 
after midnight on 1 June 2019. The notes in the vet history show this was discussed 
between Mrs C and her vet at the time and that Mrs C was aware of her situation of 
cover ceasing at midnight and that she agreed to pay the vet fees consequently.
Since this policy and indeed any pet policy, provides cover for the vet fees involved 
with the health of a pet (which can often be ongoing rather than simply dealt with in a 
one-off fashion) all pet policies, to include Agrias, are clear on the time period of 
cover. 
Continuation of cover for any illness is dependent on the policy being renewed and 
indeed premiums being paid, save for introductory offers like this one. The policies 
are also limited as to the maximum policy benefit (which can vary), as regards time 
limits and indeed benefit amounts across the pet insurance industry. So I dont 
consider Agrias policy terms to be at all unusual.
Otherwise, as Agria detailed in its response to the investigators view, this would 
mean pet insurers would be responsible for ongoing claims even when the 
policyholder hadnt continued to pay any premium for the policy. So I dont consider 
its fair to impose any duty on Agria to pay Mrs Cs claim beyond the expiry date and 
time for the cover it provided for her.
I understand Mrs C attempted to extend her policy with Agria on the night of 1 June. 
And she couldnt complete the process. Agria confirms there was one attempt on 1 
June at 22.06 which didnt appear to be completed. And then there were four 
attempts on 2 June 2016 after the policy expired. As Mrs C held only a free policy 
she wouldnt have held an online account on the website. It also reports there were 
no IT faults reported that weekend. 
Both Mrs C and Agria confirm that during the five weeks of cover she was sent 
reminders and invitations to extend the cover provided into a full policy. And in any 
event Mrs C had already arranged cover elsewhere. Obviously at 10pm on a 
Saturday night Agrias telephone service would have been closed, which for the 
avoidance of any doubt I dont consider to be unreasonable. 
As the investigator explained, this service cant tell a business what systems
it should use. And whilst I understand Mrs C did make an attempt to extend the 
cover, late on the Saturday night, I dont consider its reasonable to hold Agria 
responsible for the failure of that, when theres no reported issues with its systems.
So in the absence of Mrs C arranging for her cover to be extended to a full policy and 
the free cover provided by Agria expiring at midnight on 1 June, I dont consider Agria 
did anything wrong in not paying the vet fees incurred after midnight on 1 June 2019.
Agria had nothing further to add. Mrs C was understandably unhappy at my provisional 
decision. She said there didnt appear to have been consideration of her inability to contact 
them or that she was expected to have dual insurance. And that obviously her new insurers 
wouldnt want to be involved in this claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate and understand that Mrs C is disappointed in my decision, but this was a time 
limited free insurance product supplied by Agria. If Mrs C wanted continuation of her cover then she could have purchased the policy which Agria invited her to do, which then would 
have meant there was no break in her cover. 
Or she could have asked her new insurer to cover her prior to the expiry date of this free 
cover. Since Mrs C paid no premium for this free cover she would have been at no financial 
loss in doing this. Mrs C was at pains to say she worked in the insurance industry and 
therefore I consider she would have had some knowledge to understand the risks of a break 
in cover. 
The pet insurance market doesnt work on the basis of event liability like for an example a 
household policy can, it works on the basis of the time period of the cover provided, solely 
due to the fact the claims concern the health of the pet insured which can often be ongoing. 
Theres nothing wrong with that either.
So my decision remains that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman