DRN-2507458
The complaint
Mr A complains that Investec Bank plc didnt treat him fairly when it decreased the interest 
rate on his savings account without providing him with a clear notice.
What happened
Mr A had a savings account with Investec. The terms of the account stated that he needed 
to give ninety-five days notice to close the account or to make a withdrawal.
He says a friend alerted him to the fact that Investec would reduce the interest rate on his 
savings account by 0.5% from September 2020. He checked his emails and noted that 
Investec had sent him an email about this in June 2020. But he says the email was unclear. 
It didnt specify the changes that he could expect on the account type he held.
He says there was a document attached to the email which he couldnt access without 
downloading special software. He was able to access this document through his friends 
computer. He says the document listed hundreds of accounts. In order to work out how the 
change affected him he needed to know the exact name of his account, the notice period, 
the immediate access percentage and the issue number. He didnt think this was a fair way 
to communicate this change to him.
He wasnt happy with the change to the interest rate. But because he had to give ninety-five 
days notice to close his account, he says hes lost out on being able to get a better rate 
elsewhere for that ninety-five day notice period. He complained to Investec.
Investec investigated his complaint. It said it had given him notice of the change in line with 
its terms and conditions. It said information about his account name was available each time 
he logged in, on his account statements and in his welcome letter when he opened the 
account. It didnt uphold his complaint or agree to pay him any compensation for what 
happened. Mr A complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She thought that Investec had given him a 
reasonable period of notice of the change, in line with its terms and conditions. She said Mr 
A had access to the information he needed about his account type when he logged in and he 
wouldve been able to use that information to understand how the changes affected his 
account. 
She also considered what Mr A had said about the software he needed to read the 
attachment.  She didnt think it was unreasonable for Investec to have an attachment which 
required the particular software to be downloaded. But, if Mr A hadnt wanted to do that he 
couldve contacted Investec for the information he required. So, she thought Mr A had been 
given reasonable notice of the changes.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that although what our investigator had said may be legally 
correct, she hadnt considered the onus on Investec to treat customers fairly. He said this 
meant it shouldve provided him with a personalised communication setting out what the 
change would be on his account and the effective date. He said other organisations did do 
this.
Because Mr A didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for Mr As account. These state that Investec can 
change the interest rate on his account. The terms also say that where there is a decrease in 
the interest rate, Investec will only change that rate after a period which is fourteen days plus 
the notice period for the account. So, in the case of Mr As account, the notice period would 
be one hundred and nine days. 
Investec has complied with these terms. It gave notice by email on 5 June 2020 and the 
changes took effect from 23 September 2020. However, Mr As complaint is about the way 
that the notice was given. Hes raised several points about this which he says show that 
Investec hasnt treated him fairly.
His main issue is with the fact that the email didnt specify exactly how the changes would 
affect his account. He says he wouldve expected the email to say something along the 
following lines:
We are writing to inform you that as of [specify date], the interest rate on your 95 
Day Notice e-Saver with 10% Immediate Access is reducing from 1.5% to 1%. You can 
now withdraw your funds penalty free etc xxxxxxxx
Instead he says Investec put up barriers to prevent its customers getting clear information  
such as the requirement to download software to open a separate attachment. The 
attachment then listed a large number of savings accounts and it wasnt clear which of the 
accounts applied to him.
Ive thought about what Mr A has said. There is an obligation on Investec to treat its 
customers fairly and that does require it to communicate with them in a way which is clear, 
fair and not misleading. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has also set out rules in its 
Banking Conduct of Business sourcebook (BCOBs) (available online) which apply when 
interest rates are changing. And, there is industry guidance about how these rules apply.
The reason for these rules and guidelines is to enable consumers to make informed 
decisions. So, for example, where interest rates are decreasing the heading on the notice 
should clearly indicate that the rate is decreasing.
Investec hasnt been able to provide us with an actual copy of the email it sent Mr A. But it 
has provided an example which sets out what was sent to its customers at the time. Having 
looked at the email, which Mr A acknowledges he did receive, I can see that it clearly states 
in the subject line that the purpose of the communication is to inform him that Investec is 
decreasing some of its savings rates. This information is repeated in two places, in bold, 
within the body of the email. The email then lists, in bold, the types of account that are 
affected. Notice accounts are included on that list. 
Having looked at the email Im satisfied Investec did enough to bring this information to his 
attention. He wouldve known that the interest rate on his notice account was decreasing. Whilst he may not have been aware, without further checking the position, of the exact name 
of his notice account  he wouldve known it was affected by the proposed change.
I accept that to get exact details of what the reduction in the rate was and the effective date, 
he wouldve needed to take further steps. 
I agree with what our investigator said about the fact that the attachment wouldve required 
Mr A to download certain software. I dont think Investec acted unreasonably when it did this. 
Its not unusual that software is required to access a particular document. If Mr A was 
concerned about how this change might affect him and, if he didnt want to download 
software to read the attachment, he couldve contacted Investec. He didnt do that.
Ive also considered the way the information in the attachment was presented. Mr A says it 
was unclear and to understand it he wouldve needed to know the exact name of his 
account, the notice period, the immediate access percentage and the issue number. But I 
dont think Investec acted unreasonably when it thought he should know this information and 
be able to work out the interest rate change that applied to his account.
Mr A had access to online banking with Investec, his statements and the welcome letter hed 
been given when he opened the account. These documents provided him with all of the 
information he says he needed to understand the contents of the attachment. If he hadnt 
been able to find the necessary information from these sources, he couldve contacted 
Investec. He didnt do any of these things until the notice period had almost expired. 
Having considered everything here, I think the email sent to Mr A in June was clear. It 
brought the decrease in the interest rate on his notice account to his attention. I also think 
the information in the attachment was clear and Im satisfied Mr A wouldve been able to 
understand how the change affected him had he tried to open the attachment or contacted 
Investec when he received the email. 
Im satisfied Investec has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with its terms and 
conditions when it sent the notification and attachment to Mr A. I dont require it to take any 
further action to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Investec Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman