DRN-2151289
The complaint
Mr A complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined his gadget insurance 
claim.
All references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr A made a claim for a lost tablet on his gadget insurance policy with 
Assurant. He told Assurant the last time he could remember having his tablet was when he 
was getting on a bus. He realised it was missing the following day. Assurant questioned     
Mr A about what had happened over the phone and asked him to provide documents to 
support his claim.
In late January 2020, Assurant rejected Mr As claim based on the following term:
We will refuse to honour your claim if you knowingly provide us with false or fraudulently 
exaggerated information to support your claim in any respect. This applies to any claim 
made for loss, theft or damage caused by your wilful act, or with the intent to defraud us or 
the insurer.
Mr A complained but Assurant didnt uphold his complaint as it felt it had declined the claim 
correctly. So, Mr A brought is complaint to our service.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 August 2020, where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr As complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require insurers to handle a claim promptly and fairly. And they 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Assurant has relied on the following term to decline Mr As claim: 
It is important that when applying for insurance, or submitting a claim you or anyone acting 
on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer all questions honestly and to the best of 
your knowledge. Failure to do so may affect the validity of your policy or the payment of your 
claim.
This goes on to say: 
If false or inaccurate information is provided and fraud is identified then we will:
 Not honour the claim and we will cancel your policy. If an excess has been paid this will not 
be returned, this is not a penalty this is to cover administration costs.
While Assurant says it isnt directly accusing Mr A of fraud, it does appear to be relying on a 
fraud exclusion within its policy terms. 
Assurant says the reason it declined Mr As claim was because he gave conflicting 
information about when he last used data on his tablet. This was in two different phone calls 
with Assurant. 
On 3 January 2020 Assurant asked Mr A when hed last used data on his tablet. Mr A said it 
was on the day the tablet went missing (9 December). He mentioned using it to look at a bus 
timetable when he was at the bus station, returning from the hospital. Assurant asked Mr A 
to provide an itemised bill from his mobile phone provider showing hed used data on that 
day, along with other documents to support his claim.
On 20 January 2020 Assurant spoke to Mr A again. It said it had received most of the 
documents it had asked for but was still waiting for an itemised bill covering the date the 
tablet went missing. Mr A said he didnt use data on his tablet that day. It was in airplane 
mode. He said he mainly used his tablet for games and only used data when he needed it. 
He also had a mobile phone and hed been using the hospitals wifi when he was there.
Assurant feels its suspicious that Mr A only remembered when it specifically requested 
evidence to support his claim. It believes he only backtracked when he realised the 
requested documentation would prove his complaint to be false.
Mr A provided Assurant with a letter from his mobile phone provider confirming that hed 
reported the tablet as missing on 19 December 2019. It also says the device was used from 
1 August 2019 until 24 November 2019. So, he doesnt appear to have used it on the date 
the tablet went missing. 
I appreciate Mr A initially told Assurant hed used data on 9 December when he looked at a 
bus timetable. But our investigator has pointed out that the bus interchange he was at has 
wifi. So, he wouldnt have needed to use his data to check the bus timetable.
 
Assurant says if Mr A had been using a wifi hotspot, he would have been required to log in 
as a guest for security reasons. It feels that Mr A would have remembered this and told 
Assurant on the first call that this had happened.
Ive considered what Assurant has said, but I dont think this shows Mr A didnt take 
reasonable care to answer all questions honestly. The phone call took place several weeks 
after the loss of tablet. Whether or not he was asked to log on as a guest to a wifi hotspot 
seems like quite a minor detail for Mr A to remember in the context of what happened.
Im satisfied that Mr A has provided Assurant with enough information to support his claim. 
Aside from one minor detail, his account of what happened has been consistent. So, I dont 
think it was reasonable for Assurant to reject Mr As claim.
The policy terms allow Assurant to settle a claim by replacing a lost or stolen device. But    
Mr A has told us he purchased a new tablet (of the same make and model) on 9 March 
2020. I think this understandable, given Assurants rejection of his claim. 
Mr A has sent us a copy of the delivery note as evidence that hes replaced the tablet, but 
this doesnt show how much it cost. So, I think it would be fair for Assurant to make Mr A a 
cash settlement based on the market value of the tablet when he replaced it. It shouldnt 
take off any discount it might have received if it had bought a replacement from its 
suppliers.I set out what I intended to tell Assurant to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me further information or comments they wanted me to consider before I 
issued my final decision.
Responses
Mr A didnt provide any comments or further information for me to consider.
Assurant said it had genuine concerns over the validity of Mr As claim and it didnt feel Id 
taken these into account. In his call to Assurant, Mr A said he used the device regularly for 
various activities, but the proof of usage shows it hadnt been used since 24 November 
2019. It questioned if the device was truly lost on 24 November rather than 9 December.
Id stated Mr As version of events had remained consistent apart from one detail. But one 
detail could be the difference between a truthful claim and a fraudulent one. Assurant 
understood Mr A could have found it difficult to recall a specific incident from many weeks 
prior to the call in January. But he was able to recall details about apparently joining a guest 
wi-fi at the hospital or at the bus interchange when he knew he could not evidence he had 
used the data hed described. 
Assurant said it isnt persuaded by Mr As claim because he had very clearly provided false 
information, which he only admitted to when he needed to. If Mr A was unsure of any of the 
details, he should have made Assurant aware of these. He didnt, so it could assess the 
claim based on the details Mr A first provided, which have been found to be incorrect. It is 
within Assurants rights as per the policys terms and conditions to decline Mr As claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Assurant feels it has the right to reject Mr As claim because hes provided 
inaccurate information. But the rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority require 
Assurant to not unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy term Assurant is relying on to reject Mr As claim says that when submitting a 
claim, a policyholder must take reasonable care to answer all questions honestly and to the 
best of (their) knowledge.
In its initial submissions to our service, Assurant was concerned that Mr A hadnt wanted to 
provide the itemised bill it had asked for, because it might show he was still using or in 
possession of the device. It now says its concerned Mr A might have lost the device earlier 
than he said. 
But in the conversation of 3 January Mr A explained to Assurant that he mainly used his 
tablet for games and books. These wouldnt necessarily require an internet connection. He 
also said he used wifi at home and had a mobile phone. So, I think Mr A made it clear in this 
initial call that he didnt always use data on his tablet. And I think its plausible that he hadnt 
used data on it for a couple of weeks before losing it.
In the call of 3 January, the Assurant representative asked Mr A when he could last 
remember having the tablet and he said it was at the bus station. Later in the call the 
representative asked: When was the last time you used it for data? Would it have been at 
the bus station? Mr A agreed it would have been. While this appears to have been incorrect, as I said in my provisional decision, it was a 
minor detail. Mr A might easily have forgotten needing to log into a wifi hotspot, if this is what 
hed had to do.
I also dont find it surprising that Mr A didnt mention the hospital wifi in the 3 January call. 
This isnt something he was asked about. This only came up in the call of 20 January when 
the representative reminded him hed previously said hed used data that day. 
Overall, Im persuaded that Mr A took reasonable care to answer Assurants questions 
honestly. And I think Assurants decision to reject his claim was unreasonable. So, Ive 
reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. 
This means Assurant needs to make Mr A a cash settlement based on the market value of 
the tablet when he replaced it. It shouldnt take off any discount it might have received if it 
had bought a replacement from its suppliers.
Putting things right
Assurant should:
Pay Mr A a cash settlement equivalent to the market value of the tablet on 9 March 
2020 (minus any applicable excess).
Add 8% per annum simple interest to the above from 9 March 2020 to the date 
Assurant settles the claim.*
*If Assurant considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Assurant General 
Insurance Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman