DRN-4095493
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc, delayed sending a 
bankers reference causing financial loss.
What happened
R explains that a third party asked it for a reference from its bank. R says it contacted 
NatWest and sent a request as it was told to do. But it didnt receive a reference and had to 
chase this up. R said that it had wanted to expand its business and couldnt do so without 
the reference and has lost money. This happened the last time it tried to get a reference too.
NatWest said the director of R had phoned on 12 and 13 January 2023 about this. In the first 
call the director was given an address to post the form to. He wasnt satisfied that it couldnt 
be emailed or given to a branch. He called again on 13 January 2023 and was told that the 
third party would need to send the form into NatWest. Instead, he posted the form himself on 
17 January 2023 and this wasnt dealt with as it hadnt come from the third party. It sent a 
reference by exception to R on 3 March 2023 by post and by encrypted email. NatWest 
accepted that its communication was poor, and that R hadnt been contacted when the form 
wasnt dealt with. It paid R £500 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that NatWest do anything further. It was a matter for 
NatWest to decide on its processes and this service isnt the regulator. She was satisfied 
that a letter was sent, and NatWest couldnt be responsible for the postal service. But it was 
arranged for this to be sent again and R said it now had this. R would have incurred the 
expenses for its business anyway, so NatWest wasnt responsible for this.
R didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It had been chasing this up since 17 
January 2023 and did everything it was asked to. To blame the postal system was 
unacceptable. It could have been sent by email or recorded delivery. And it has now been 
received by normal post which is strange. R was told that this would take 10 working days 
but had to wait for three months. It doesnt understand the comment about expenses as 
there were extra costs to pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that R doesnt agree with how NatWest deals with reference requests. But Im 
afraid its fairly a matter for NatWest to decide on its processes and we dont have a role in 
reviewing those. Here it says that any request for a third-party reference should come from 
that third party. While it didnt tell R that during the first call, I heard it do so during the 
second call. It has accepted that it didnt tell R that it wouldnt deal with the request R had 
sent. This meant that this matter was escalated to a complaint.
Im satisfied that it then sent the request to R as an exception. It doesnt have to send a letter 
by recorded delivery. And while I know that R didnt think that the email it sent should be 
encrypted NatWest considered this sensitive information.
R said that it had received the third-party request on 11 January 2023. Im not clear what 
timetable that third party was working to and whether any other business inspection or 
information was required. I havent seen specific expenses involved but my understanding is 
that R had committed further resources in expectation of being approved as it had before. 
Im unable to conclude on the evidence both that this reference was the only thing that 
prevented R receiving funds and that NatWest fairly accepted the risks R says were involved 
of it not being provided in time. And had R asked the third party to contact NatWest directly 
as was set out in the second call then I cant know what timetable that would have involved 
too. So, taking all this into account, I wont be making any award for financial loss.
NatWest has paid compensation for the misinformation and lack of communication. We dont 
make punitive awards and this payment is more than I might otherwise have awarded taking 
into account our published guidelines. If R doesnt accept my decision its free to pursue this 
matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that National Westminster 
Bank Plc need do no more that it has already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman