DRN-3607379
The complaint
Mr J complains about how BUPA Insurance Limited applied the no claims discount (NCD) to 
his private medical insurance premium.
What happened
Mr J has medical insurance insured by BUPA. He had cataract operations on both eyes but 
the second was delayed due to unforeseen circumstances. That meant he claimed for 
treatment in two different years for the NCD calculation causing his NCD to reduce on two 
policy renewals so his premium increased. Mr J said the increase in his premium means he 
now pays substantially more than the claims BUPA paid, which he thinks is unfair. He said if 
hed known it would have been cheaper for him to have paid for the treatment privately. 
Mr J wants BUPA to apply the NCD as if he had both treatments in the same NCD 
calculation year. He said that would mean only one, rather than two, 3 level reduction in the 
NCD which would reduce his premium.
BUPA said it wasnt responsible for the delay in Mr Js treatment and it had calculated his 
NCD at renewal in line with the terms of his policy. Also it had treated him fairly and 
consistently with how it treated other customers in the same circumstances.
Our investigator said we couldnt tell BUPA what it should charge for its medical insurance 
as that was its commercial decision. But we could consider whether BUPA had applied the 
NCD fairly and he thought BUPA had treated Mr J fairly.
Mr J disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decisions. In summary he said:
He didnt accept BUPA had commercial freedom to price a risk 
Our investigator had mentioned he could change to another insurer but that would 
mean his pre-existing medical conditions would be excluded.
His claim amounts are much less than his premium which results in unfairness as 
BUPA recovers the costs it paid which in effect denies him insurance cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We wont usually make any judgements about the way an insurer chooses to assess risk, 
the risk assessments it makes or the premium it charges to cover a certain risk and that 
includes the NCD. Those are commercial decisions for an insurer to make. But we will look 
at whether an insurer applied the NCD in line with the policy terms, fairly and reasonably and 
that its treated Mr J fairly and consistently in line with its other customers.
BUPA provided us with Mr Js claims history and the impact on the NCD of those claims. In 
the policy year 2020/21 no claims applied and the NCD was 62%. In the policy year 2021/22 
there was a claim factored in for £1,439 and the NCD was reduced to 50%. In the policy year 
2022/23 there was a claim factored in for £1,811 and the NCD was reduced to 35%.
The policy document sets out how the value of claims BUPA paid during the NCD calculation 
period affects the change in NCD level applied at the next renewal date. In the policy year 
2020/21 Mr J was on level 11 for his NCD, which the policy shows meant he had a 62% 
discount. After BUPA applied the first claim, with a cost over £500, he moved down 3 levels 
for the NCD which the policy shows meant he had 50% NCD for the policy year 2021/22. 
BUPA applied the second claim, with a cost of over £500, which meant he moved down a 
further 3 levels for the NCD which the policy shows meant he had a 35% NCD for the 
2022/23 renewal. Im satisfied that BUPA applied the reduction in NCD in line with the policy 
terms.
Ive also considered whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I understand Mr Js 
second treatment was delayed for reasons Mr J had no control over. But BUPA wasnt 
responsible for the delay in Mr Js treatment either. Mr J says he could have paid for the 
treatment privately which wouldnt have affected his premium. But the policy is clear how the 
value of claims paid during the calculation period affected the NCD so Im satisfied the 
information was clearly available to Mr J. BUPA says it treated Mr J the same as it would 
have treated other customers in the same circumstances, and given it acted in line with the 
policy terms Ive no reason to doubt that. Theres no basis for me to say BUPA acted 
unfairly.
Our investigator said Mr J doesnt have to accept the premium offered by BUPA and hes 
entitled to find other insurance if his current policy is no longer suitable for him. I appreciate 
that pre-existing medical condition exclusions are very common in private health insurance 
policies so Mr J may have difficulty in finding alternative insurance with the same cover. But 
that doesnt mean BUPAs application of the NCD is unfair. Its Mr Js decision whether he 
wants to continue with his policy with BUPA at the premium its given him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman