DRN-3847921
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that TSB Bank plc decided to close his account. He also wants TSB to 
provide a proper explanation for why it no longer wanted him as a customer.
What happened
Mr B had an account with TSB. In August 2021, Mr B went into branch and deposited just 
over £22,000 cash into his account. 
TSB asked Mr B for some more information about the cash deposit. He explained to TSB 
that hed sold a property overseas and the proceeds of the sale had been transferred to him 
via an informal money arrangement scheme. Mr B wasnt able to provide TSB with any 
paperwork relating to the sale of the property, but he did provide evidence that showed hed 
bought a property overseas some years previously and how hed financed the purchase.
Following its review TSB decided to close Mr Bs account and wrote to him on 20 August 
2021 giving him 60 days notice. Mr B opened another account with a different bank in 
September 2021.
Mr B complained to TSB about its decision to close his account and asked the bank to 
provide him with explanation for its actions. TSB didnt provide Mr B with much information 
and said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the terms of the account 
and relevant regulations when it had closed his account. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
explained that hed been a good customer of the bank for just under forty years and believes 
that TSB have treated him like a money launderer. Mr B said that the whole experience had 
been upsetting and stressful. And that overall, hed been treated in a diabolical manner by 
TSB.  
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought TSB hadnt done anything 
wrong when it decided to close Mr Bs account. Mr B disagreed. He said TSB treated him 
like criminal simply because he paid a large amount of cash into his account. And are hiding 
behind their terms and conditions.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says he hasnt done anything wrong and has pointed out that hes been a good 
customer of the bank for just under forty years. He wants TSB to explain why it closed his 
account  he believes its because of the money he deposited. Hes argued that hes 
adequately explained where the money came from -  which he says was from the legitimate 
sale of a property he owned overseas. So, he feels the bank has treated him unfairly when it 
closed his account.
As the investigator has already explained, its generally for financial institutions to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for 
deciding whether to open or close accounts and providing an account to a customer is a 
commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. TSB has important legal 
and regulatory obligations it must also meet when providing accounts to customers. Unless 
theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
TSB closed Mr Bs account by giving him two months notice, so they complied with the 
terms and conditions. I understand why Mr B wants to know TSBs reasons behind its 
decision  it cant be pleasant being told youre no longer wanted a customer, especially 
after being a customer of the bank for as long as Mr B had. But TSB is under no obligation to 
tell Mr B the reasons behind the account closure, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant 
say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr B this information. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
Having said that, TSB cant close an account for unlawful or improper reasons. Ive no doubt, 
based on what Mr Bs said, that he believes TSB made unfair assumptions about him based 
on him depositing a large amount of cash. But having looked at all the information available 
to me, including TSBs actions and the information its provided Im satisfied that their 
reason(s) for closing Mr Bs account sit within their commercial freedom.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr B feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and worrying time. So, I realise Mr B will be disappointed by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say TSB have acted unreasonably and 
treated Mr B unfairly when it closed his account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman