DRN-3651569
The complaint
Miss R believes HSBC UK Bank Plc acted irresponsibly by approving an overdraft shed 
applied for.
What happened
In May 2017, Miss R and her ex-partner opened a bank account with HSBC that included a 
£2,500 overdraft limit. Multiple card and ATM transactions took place, with limited credits 
paid into the account. Which resulted in the account exceeding its overdraft limit by 12 July 
2017.
HSBC wrote to Miss R and her ex-partner on 16 July 2017, concerned with how the account 
was being used, and that theyd already exceeded the overdraft limit. And they asked for 
regular payments of around £1,070 to be paid into the account to service the overdraft. 
Although a £900 payment was made on 29 June 2017, by 3 July 2017 the account had 
exceeded the overdraft limit again.
HSBC wrote to Miss R and her ex-partner again on 16 July and 4 August 2017, to let them 
know theyd exceeded the overdraft limit. The 4 August letter also detailed the options and 
the support available if they were in financial difficulties. However, no further payments were 
made into the account, and, following further requests for payments that werent responded 
to, HSBC closed the account on 8 January 2018, when the outstanding balance was just 
over £3,000. The outstanding debt was then passed to a debt collection agency.
In November 2020, Miss R complained to HSBC that theyd irresponsibly approved her 
overdraft because it was unaffordable to her at the time. She also complained that she was 
in an abusive relationship at the time and was forced to open the account. She also said that 
HSBC failed to provide her with any support, instead sending her threatening letters and 
making threatening phone calls.
HSBC didnt uphold her complaint, and she brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
for investigation.
Our investigator said that HSBC hadnt verified income or expenditure when they approved 
the overdraft, so he didnt think the checks thatd been carried out were reasonable or 
proportionate. However, as neither HSBC nor Miss R were able to show what HSBC 
wouldve likely seen had they carried out income and expenditure checks, the investigator 
said there was no evidence that Miss R couldnt afford the overdraft.
The investigator also said that, although Miss R said shed taken the overdraft out under 
duress, hed not seen anything to show that HSBC shouldve been aware of this. And, by 
Miss R confirming that she had all the cards for the account, the investigator thought she 
most likely had use of the account. And, when asking Miss R to start making payments 
towards the overdraft, HSBC had also provided her with details of the support available.
So, the investigator didnt think HSBC needed to do anything more.
Miss R disagreed. She said that she no longer has bank accounts from the time she opened 
the account. Nor does she have a copy of her credit report from that time. But shes said that 
I wasnt mentally in the right frame of mind and should not have been given all this money. 
She also believes that compensation she received from HSBC for some subsequent poor 
service shows that theyve taken responsibility for what happened.
Because she didnt agree with the investigator, Miss R has asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did HSBC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss R 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did HSBC make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss R 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did HSBC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that HSBC didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss Rs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did HSBC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss R would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
HSBC have confirmed that they base their lending decisions on the information provided on 
the application, anything they may hold on their systems, and information obtained from the 
credit reference agencies.
The application HSBC received said that Miss R had an income of £12,000 a year, and her 
ex-partners income was £16,000 a year. Based on this, and the information HSBC received 
from a credit reference agency, HSBC approved the application. However, HSBC didnt take 
any steps to verify the declared incomes, ask (and verify) any regular expenditure, and 
theyve not been able to provide a copy of the credit report they checked.
Given that HSBC didnt ask any questions about expenditure, didnt validate any income or 
outgoings, and cant evidence the checks they undertook; I cant be satisfied they completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss R could sustainably 
repay the borrowing?Miss R was asked for a copy of her bank statements from around the time she applied for 
the overdraft. While I wouldnt necessarily have expected HSBC to have asked for a copy of 
these at the time, they would show a reasonable reflection of what HSBC wouldve found if 
theyd carried out checks into Miss Rs income and expenditure.
Miss R was able to ask her bank at the time of the application for copies of these statements 
if she no longer has these. However, despite this Miss R has not provided copies of her bank 
statements, or anything else to show what her income and expenditure was at the time.
Miss R was also asked to provide a copy of her credit file. This can be requested from the 
credit reference agencies, but can only be done so by Miss R  neither ourselves nor HSBC 
are able to obtain this on her behalf. As credit files contain historic information about both 
open and closed accounts, this wouldve allowed us to get an idea of Miss Rs accounts at 
the time the application was made, and whether she had any adverse information e.g. 
arrears, defaults, and/or CCJs.
Miss R has provided a copy of her credit score, which is low, but this is her position as it is 
now, and isnt necessarily reflective of what it was when she applied for the account. Whats 
more, the credit score is just a number, and its the underlying information that number is 
derived from which is important  the information contained within the credit file. And Miss R 
hasnt provided this information.
So, while I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Miss R, without any 
evidence that the overdraft wasnt affordable to her at the time of application, Im unable to 
say that, had HSBC carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, they wouldve shown 
that the overdraft shouldnt have been approved.
As such, Im unable to conclude that HSBC acted unreasonably when approving the 
overdraft application.
Did HSBC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
As part of our investigation into this matter, Ive seen that Miss R has confirmed that she 
wasnt forced to open the account. She opened the account willingly, and it was her ex-
partner who suggested an overdraft, which she agreed to. But she didnt expect it to be 
£2,500, only around £100. 
Miss R also confirmed that she wasnt aware of how much her ex-partner was spending, and 
that the majority of the overdraft spending was done by her ex-partner. Miss R has explained 
that their relationship got worse after her ex-partner lost his job. As a result of this, she now 
suffers from anxiety and depression. And the debt thats still owed to HSBC is making things 
harder.
I want to recognise the situation that Miss R has been through, and the ongoing impact of 
this on her. But for me to say that HSBC should compensate her for this, Id need to be 
satisfied they acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. And, in this situation, I dont think 
that was the case. 
Miss R has confirmed that she applied to open the account, and that she knew there was 
going to be an overdraft function. And the fact that HSBC offered an overdraft that was more 
than she expected doesnt mean that theyve done something wrong. Whats more, while I 
appreciate that Miss R has said the overdraft was unequally spent, it doesnt change the fact 
that both parties are jointly and severally liable for the whole debt  the liability isnt split by 
who made what transaction. So, Miss R and her ex-partner are both liable for the repayment 
of the whole of the overdraft.HSBC have paid Miss R compensation for the delays in dealing with her complaint, and how 
they communicated with her. While this shows that HSBC have acknowledged that some of 
the service theyve provided wasnt as it shouldve been, it doesnt follow that this is an 
acknowledgement they shouldnt have approved the overdraft.  So, I wont be asking HSBC 
to reduce or waive any of the fees or charges applied.
It's clear from what Miss R has said that shes struggling to repay the overdraft. And, in 
these circumstances, Id expect HSBC to treat her with forbearance and due consideration. 
Id also expect them to take reasonable steps to pursue the joint account holder, Miss Rs 
ex-partner, for any outstanding balance.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint about HSBC UK Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman