DRN-2291629
The complaint
 Mr G has complained that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
 Mr G took six short-term loans from Cashfloat between February 2018 and January 
2020. A summary of his borrowing based on the information provided to us from the 
lender can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMax Monthly 
Repayment
1 18/02/2018 27/04/2018 2 £200.00 £143.22
2 30/04/2018 14/08/2018 4 £500.00 £198.25
3 16/09/2018 28/11/2018 2 £200.00 £147.03
4 17/02/2019 20/02/2019 1 £200.00 £264.00
5 16/06/2019 28/08/2019 2 £250.00 £183.79
6 12/01/2020 28/02/2020 5 £450.00 £157.45
In its final response, Cashfloat explained the reasons why it didnt think it was wrong to lend 
to Mr G. But it offered a £100 payment as a gesture of goodwill in full and final settlement of 
the complaint. This was later increased to £175. But Mr G declined this offer and he brought 
his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Gs complaint. He thought by loan 4 proportionate 
checks wouldve shown Mr G was having problems managing his money as he had a 
number of outstanding short-term loans with other lenders. The adjudicator thought there 
was a significant risk that Mr G wouldnt have been able to meet his existing commitments 
without having to borrow again. So, he recommended that loans 4-6 be upheld.
It appears that Mr G agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Cashfloat disagreed and in 
response made the following points:
Loans 4-6 were taken out after reasonable breaks in between loans, demonstrating 
that Mr G did not require immediate funds after the settlement of his previous loan.
Mr G didnt contact it at any time to say he was financially struggling. 
Mr G settled all of his accounts either on time or earlier than scheduled.
Mr G had a reasonable credit profile, showing good account conduct.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loan was provided.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks to understand whether
Mr G could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure.
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early
stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income was low or
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed
expect a lender to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a
customer irresponsibly.
Loans 1-3
The adjudicator didnt think it was wrong of Cashfloat to have provided Mr Gs first three 
loans.  Both Mr G and Cashfloat appear to have accepted our adjudicators findings about 
these loans.
But for completeness, I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong of Cashfloat to have 
provided these loans. Taking into account what Cashfloat knew about Mr G at the time of his 
loan applications and the fact that this was early on in the lending relationship, I dont think 
Cashfloat was wrong to have approved these three loans.
Loans 4-6
Mr G applied for his fourth loan around three and a half months after repaying loan 3. 
Cashfloat completed the same level of checks as it did for Mr Gs first three loans by asking 
Mr G to declare his monthly income and expenditure and completing a credit check.
Mr G declared his monthly income was £2,120 and his expenditure amounted to £762. This 
would have left Mr G with a disposable income of £1,358 of which to meet the repayment for 
this loan. He was due to repay a one-off payment of £264 to settle the loan, and this was his 
highest loan repayment to date. 
The loan repayment may have initially appeared affordable based on what Mr G had 
declared, and Cashfloat may have felt there had been an improvements in his situation given 
the small gap from repaying loan 2 to taking this one. But, actually Cashfloat had information 
to suggest the loan was likely to be unsustainable for him. 
Cashfloat completed a credit check before each loan was approved. The credit check for 
loan 4 revealed Mr Gs financial situation had deteriorated since his previous loan. Mr Gs 
total outstanding debt had increased from £9,711 at the time of loan 3, to £16,065. Mr G had 
borrowed an extra £6,000 for loans and instalment credit, and he had taken out an extra 12 
accounts within this short period of time. So, I think that Cashfloat had enough information to suggest Mr G was taking out a 
significant number of accounts within a short period of time. And this suggests he was 
potentially reliant on short term lending. I think Cashfloat should have completed additional 
checks on Mr Gs circumstances to understand more about Mr Gs borrowing with other 
lenders. Afterall, Mr G had declared the same expenditure for his previous loan applications 
but the information Cashfloat had seemed to suggest he had additional expenses to service 
his rapidly increasing debt burden.
Had Cashfloat completed additional checks and enquired about Mr Gs outstanding loans 
with other lenders, I think it would have known that Mr G had a significant number of loans 
outstanding with other lenders. So, I think there was a significant risk that he wouldnt be 
able to meet his repayments without borrowing again. So, I think Cashfloat were wrong to 
approve loan 4.
Mr G applied for his fifth loan around four months after repaying loan 4. And loan 6 was 
taken out three and a half months after repaying loan 5. I acknowledge that Cashfloat has 
commented on the breaks in between Mr Gs loans, and that these breaks didnt suggest
Mr G was reliant on its lending. While that may be the case, again Cashfloat was presented 
with information that suggested he was continuing to regularly open new credit accounts. 
I also dont think that Mr G repaid his loans early or on time would be an indication that the 
loans were sustainable for him. Afterall, Cashfloat was aware of a number of other credit 
accounts being opened, so its not unreasonable to suggest that Mr G was taking out new 
credit to fill a hole in his finances, which included repaying other lenders. 
Cashfloat completed the same level of checks for loan 5 and 6 as it had done previously. 
And the information Mr G provided suggested the loan repayments were affordable. But 
Cashfloat had completed a credit check for each loan application, which showed Mr G was 
still continuing to take out a significant number of accounts within a short period of time. 
There was also a high number of credit searches and the amount Mr G owed overall was the 
highest amount by the time he applied for his last loan. 
So, based on the information Cashfloat received from these credit checks, I dont think it 
should have continued to lend to Mr G as any further lending was likely to be unsustainable. 
So, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint about loans 4-6. Cashfloat should put things right as 
detailed below.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr G from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Refund all the interest, fees and charges that Mr G paid for loans 4-6.
Add 8% simple a year interest from the date Mr G made his repayments to the date 
of settlement*;
Cashfloat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in 
relation to loans 4-6. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Mr Gs complaint. Western Circle 
Ltd should put things right for Mr G as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman