DRN-4279677
The complaint
Mr C and Miss C complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a curtailment claim they 
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C and Miss C hold travel insurance as a benefit of Mr Cs packaged bank account.
In April 2022, Mr C and Miss C were skiing abroad. Unfortunately, Miss C suffered an 
accident and ruptured a ligament in her leg. She received medical treatment and was given 
crutches.
Mr C called AWP to let it know what had happened. He explained that he was due to return 
to the UK shortly, but that other family members had been due to fly out for a few days and 
Miss C had planned to return to the UK with them. However, due to Miss Cs accident, Mr C 
told AWP that Miss C intended to return to the UK early with him. AWP told Mr C to ensure 
that he kept his receipts.
A claim was made for Miss Cs medical expenses and the curtailment of her trip. AWP 
accepted and settled the medical expenses claim. However, it turned down the curtailment 
claim. Thats because it said there was no evidence to show it had been medically 
necessary for Miss C to cut short her trip.
Mr C and Miss C were unhappy with AWPs decision and so they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be partly upheld. She didnt think 
thered been evidence to show it was medically necessary for Miss C to cut short her trip. 
And she felt that even if AWP had directed Miss C to obtain medical evidence at the time of 
Mr Cs first call to it, it was unlikely the treating doctor wouldve considered her injury to be 
an emergency which required curtailment. On that basis, she agreed that the claim wasnt 
covered by the policy terms.
However, she thought that Miss Cs trip had been effectively ended as a result of her injury. 
She felt AWP should consider a curtailment claim for Miss Cs accommodation and other 
pre-booked costs. She considered too that AWPs call handler ought to have given Mr C 
clearer information at the time of his initial call about what evidence he and Miss C would 
need to get to support their claim. So she recommended that AWP should pay Mr C and 
Miss C £100 compensation. 
AWP agreed to pay Mr C and Miss C £100 compensation. But it maintained that the 
curtailment claim wasnt covered. Thats because while it accepted that Miss C wouldnt 
have been able to ski; it said the policy didnt provide cover for loss of enjoyment or for not 
being able to participate in planned activities.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think AWP has handled Mr C and Miss Cs claim fairly and Ill explain 
why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly; that 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably and that they must provide policyholders with 
reasonable guidance to help them make a claim. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of this policy and the circumstances of this claim, to decide whether I think AWP 
handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr C and AWP. The policy covers a policyholders early return home due to 
accident or illness. However, the policy includes a special condition which clearly states that 
in cases of curtailment, a policyholder must supply a medical certificate from their treating 
doctor to support their claim. In this case, the medical report from the treating hospital didnt 
suggest that it was medically necessary for Miss C to cut short her trip. And it doesnt appear 
that Mr C and Miss C have provided AWP with a certificate or letter from a doctor which says 
that curtailment of the trip was medically necessary.
As the investigator explained though, I think Mr C clearly told AWP what Miss Cs plans were 
when he first let it know about her accident. As the expert in the situation, I agree that it 
wouldve been helpful if the call handler had let Mr C know that curtailment claims would only 
be covered if there was evidence to show that curtailment was medically necessary. And 
that theyd need to get in touch with AWPs assistance team prior to returning home early. If 
theyd done so, Miss C wouldve had an opportunity to try and speak to the hospital (and the 
assistance team) to attempt to obtain this evidence. With that said, given that Miss C does 
appear to have been able to mobilise with crutches, it isnt at all clear that the doctor (or the 
assistance team) wouldve concluded that the nature of her injury meant she needed to 
return home urgently. So I cant fairly find that she wouldve been in a position to evidence 
her claim, even if Mr C had been given clearer information. And therefore, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to direct AWP to treat the claim as if it was medically necessary for Miss 
C to have curtailed the trip and returned home early, incurring new travel costs.
Nonetheless, I think Mr C was left with the impression that he and Miss C would simply need 
to provide receipts in support of the claim and I appreciate that they wouldve likely 
experienced unnecessary frustration, disappointment and upset when they learned this 
wasnt the case. I was pleased to note that AWP has agreed to pay £100 compensation in 
recognition of its failing here.
Given Miss C hasnt provided AWP with evidence to show that curtailment of her trip was 
medically necessary, I agree that on a strict application of the policy terms, her curtailment 
claim isnt covered. However, I can depart from a strict interpretation of the contract terms if I 
feel their application produces an unfair result. And thats the case here, for reasons Ill go 
on to explore.
Miss C was on a skiing trip. The purpose of her trip was to ski. The injury she sustained in 
the accident meant that she was no longer able to take part in the activity for which the trip 
had been booked. And according to Mr Cs testimony (which I find persuasive), Miss C was 
confined to using crutches and required support. So I think that at the point of Miss Cs 
injury, her holiday was effectively ended. Theres no evidence to suggest that Miss C was 
able to benefit from taking part in any other activities, or hotel facilities or that this was a simple loss of enjoyment. It seems to me that even if Miss C had remained abroad until her 
intended return date, she wouldve likely been confined to her hotel room and the purpose of 
her trip would still have been frustrated. 
As such, in these circumstances, I dont think its fair or reasonable for AWP to turn down 
Miss Cs full curtailment claim. Instead, Im persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable 
for AWP to consider a partial curtailment claim, from the point of Miss Cs injury until the 
planned end date of her trip. Such costs are likely to include Miss Cs pre-booked 
accommodation and any pre-booked ski hire costs, although I must make it clear that my 
award is for AWP to consider a curtailment claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. Im not directing it to settle any particular costs  it will be for AWP to 
assess which costs may potentially be covered, based on the available evidence.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to:
- Consider Miss Cs curtailment claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy, from the date of her injury until the date of her planned return to the UK; 
and
- Pay Mr C and Miss C a total of £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman