DRN-3245623
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs E have complained that Santander UK Plc continued charging them excessive 
amounts for their overdraft when they were in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs E complained to Santander about the charges that had been applied to their 
account since 2007. They said theyd been experiencing financial difficulties throughout this 
period and the charges had made things worse. Santander didnt uphold the complaint. And 
as Mr S and Mrs E were dissatisfied, they referred the complaint to our service.
Mr S and Mrs Es complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He explained that 
we would only be able to consider charges applied from 2015 onwards. He also explained 
that he thought Santander ought to have realised that Mr S and Mrs E were experiencing 
financial difficulty by January 2015 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and 
charges from this point onwards. Santander didnt agree so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I agree with our adjudicators findings that 
Santander acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees 
after January 2015. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr S and Mrs E were in no 
position to sustainably repay what they owed within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because Mr S and Mrs Es statements showed evidence of hardcore borrowing. In 
other, words they hadnt seen a credit balance for an extended period of time. Santanders 
own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not 
prolonged use. I acknowledge that Mr S and Mrs E appeared not to be using this account as 
their main account, but given that it was receiving only small credits and had by that time 
been significantly overdrawn for over six months, I still think that Mr S and Mrs Es overdraft 
usage should have prompted Santander to have realised that they werent using their 
overdraft as intended. So I think Santander shouldnt have continued offering it on the same 
terms. As Santander didnt react to Mr S and Mrs Es overdraft usage and instead continued 
charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
I acknowledge that Mr S and Mrs E were able to temporarily repay their overdraft in 2020. 
But I dont think this changes the fact that I think Santander should have taken action 
regarding their account five years earlier.
In reaching my conclusions, Ive thought about what Santander has said about the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, the terms and conditions of Mr S and Mrs Es account, its 
process and any actions it may have taken. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I 
remain satisfied that it wasnt fair to continue adding charges to Mr S and Mrs Es account 
from January 2015.
Mr S and Mrs E ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and 
this ended up exacerbating difficulties they already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
Santander didnt treat Mr S and Mrs E fairly and they lost out because of what Santander did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S and Mrs Es complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr S and Mrs Es current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees 
and charges applied to it from January 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr S and Mrs E to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan, Mr S and Mrs E are encouraged to get in contact with and 
cooperate with Santander to reach a suitable agreement. If it considers it 
appropriate to record negative information on Mr S and Mrs Es credit files, 
Santander should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in January 2015. Santander 
can also reduce the overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr S and Mrs E over 
their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S and Mrs E along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr S and 
Mrs Es credit files. Santander can also reduce Mr S and Mrs Es overdraft limit 
by the amount of the refund if it considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr S and Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S and Mrs Es complaint. Santander UK Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman