DRN-3992559
The complaint
Mr T complains about delays and poor customer service from Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) after logging a claim under his key protection policy.
IPA is the underwriter of this policy, that is, the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of agents. As IPA has accepted its accountable for those actions, in my decision, 
any reference to IPA includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr T paid for a lock to be fixed on his car. He was looking to recover the 
cost by claiming on his key cover policy. 
In November 2022 Mr T contacted IPA to chase up his claim and a complaint hed raised 
about delays. Mr T had sent claims information in by post and it appeared not to have been 
received, nor his claim logged.   
IPA issued a response to Mr Ts complaint in December 2022. It accepted thered been 
delays and apologised. Mr T wasnt happy with IPAs response. He brought his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service and asked IPA to review things. Following the review, 
IPA offered Mr T £75 compensation. The compensation was paid to Mr T by bank transfer a 
few days later.
An investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint but didnt uphold it. He thought £75 fairly 
reflected the inconvenience caused. As Mr T remained unhappy his complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.
Im aware Mr Ts made a separate complaint about IPAs claims decision. To clarify, my 
decision relates solely to Mr Ts complaint about customer service and delays. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think IPA needs to do anything more to resolve this complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
I appreciate this was a frustrating experience for Mr T. The relevant regulators rules say that 
insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. IPA has acknowledged this didnt happen as 
it should have, when Mr T initially sought to make a claim. And its paid Mr T £75 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. This figure is in line with what I would 
have awarded, had IPA not reviewed its complaint response as it did. So I dont think IPA 
needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require IPA to do anything more in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman