DRN-4309979
The complaint
Miss P complains about the processing of an overpayment that she made towards a hire 
purchase agreement with Toyota Financial Services (UK) PLC (TFS). 
Miss P has been represented on this complaint. But to keep things simple Ill only refer to 
Miss P in my decision
What happened
In October 2022, Miss P acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with TFS.
Miss P said a month after entering into the agreement she made an overpayment of £1,500. 
She said she was told by TFS she could either reduce the final payment or the monthly 
amount but that the interest rate wouldnt change. Miss P said this was different to what 
shed been told and to what the terms of the agreement stated.
Miss P raised a complaint with TFS and was refunded her deposit of £1,500. However, she 
was unhappy that there was no option given to reduce the interest rate, and so feels shes 
lost out as a result. Miss P said TFS intimidated her by sending her emails. She said shed 
like compensation for the inconvenience caused and a reimbursement of the loss of interest.
In February 2023 TFS issued their final response. TFS said a payment of £1,500 was made 
towards the agreement on 15 November 2022, via a related App. TFS said they contacted 
Miss P to confirm how she wanted the payment to be used and that after some contact each 
way, when realising the payment couldnt be used directly to impact the interest as shed 
hoped, Miss A advised that she should receive some interest on the overpayment amount 
and compensation for the situation.
TFS didnt uphold the complaint but offered Miss P £100 as a goodwill gesture for the delay 
in responding to her complaint and for any inconvenience caused. TFS explained that there 
were three options available to Miss P in relation to her overpayment:
To reduce the term of the agreement
To reduce the monthly instalments; or
To refund the £1500.00 and the agreement carries on as originally agreed.
Unhappy with TFS decision, Miss P brought her complaint to our service for investigation. In 
their business file TFS confirmed the refund for the over payment of £1,500 was processed 
on 20 April 2023.
Having reviewed all the information on file one of our investigators recommended that Miss 
Ps complaint should not be upheld. They concluded that TFS had acted fairly in applying the 
terms of the agreement.
Miss P didnt accept our investigators view. She felt TFS hadnt acted fairly, however as the 
investigators view remained unchanged, Miss P asked that her complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss P complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we can consider Miss Ps complaint about 
TFS. 
My starting point is that in November 2022, Miss P made an overpayment of £1,500 onto her 
agreement through an online portal. This is confirmed by both parties and is reflected in the 
statement of accounts provided by TFS. 
In an email to TFS Miss P said she wanted to reduce the interest liability. However, TFS 
provided two options which was to reduce the monthly repayments or to reduce the term.
Miss P referred to the terms of her agreement titled early settlement/ partial repayment, 
where it gave a third option (for overpayments) of reducing the final payment at their 
reasonable discretion. Im persuaded this appears to be the main concern from Miss P as 
she felt the third option wasnt presented to her after shed made the payment. 
As a result, Miss P believes shes lost out on interest and on the option to have her final 
payment, often referred to as a balloon payment, reduced by £1,500.
The terms of the agreement also state however that the option to reduce the final payment 
was at their reasonable discretion. In addition, for early repayments it also says that notice 
should be given. And Im persuaded that Miss P didnt do so, TFS confirmed that in their final 
response and neither party disputes this.
In their final response TFS said theyd informed Miss P that overpayments couldnt be used 
towards the final balance until the agreement is within the last four months. They also 
explained that had they been given the notice of Miss Ps intention to overpay, they would 
have been able to discuss her options with her prior to her making the payment.
I havent seen in the terms where it says the agreement needs to be in the last four months 
before the balance could be reduced, however Im aware that TFS said notice should be 
given, which Miss P didnt do.
Their terms also state that the option to reduce the final payment is with their reasonable 
discretion, which Im satisfied takes away the obligation for them to do so. Im persuaded this 
is under certain circumstances, which Im persuaded includes the agreement being within a 
certain timeframe. I dont think its unreasonable for TFS to have those terms and so I dont think theyve acted 
unfairly in applying them. In the circumstances I dont think itd be reasonable to ask TFS to 
pay any added interest or compensation for this. 
I cant see any evidence that TFS unreasonably held on to Miss Ps funds or delayed 
contacting her about it. The email correspondence provided satisfies me that TFS were 
acting reasonably in their contact with Miss P when confirming her intentions for the 
overpayment. I also havent seen any correspondence which suggests TFS were acting in 
an intimidating or otherwise inappropriate manner.
I acknowledge Miss Ps concerns about a data issue relating to TFS responding to her 
emails. My decision has focussed on whether TFS has treated Miss P fairly in relation to her 
overpayment. However, Miss P may decide to take this matter further with the Information 
Commissioners Office as advised by TFS in their response to her about that issue.
As Ive concluded that TFS acted fairly in relation to the £1,500 overpayment made by Miss 
P, I dont require TFS to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint about Toyota Financial Services (UK) PLC
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman