DRN-1645803
The complaint
Mr N has complained to Integrity IFA Ltd that, when it ceased to be his financial adviser in 
November 20128, it, nevertheless, continued to receive fees from his insurers even though 
he intended to appoint a new adviser. He questions why Integrity didnt notify the insurers 
that it should no longer receive these fees and continued to accept them in breach of 
Financial Conduct Authority regulations.
Furthermore, Integrity passed his personal details to another advisory firm in November 
2018 against his wishes and he has reported this as a breach of data protection laws to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Mr N has requested Integrity to return any fees it received from the insurers since November 
2018 when it confirmed to him that it could no longer act as her adviser.
What happened
Integrity has failed to respond to our request in August 2019 for its file of its dealings with
Mr N since November 2018. Neither has it issued Mr N a final response letter since he 
complained to it in March 2019.
Accordingly, one of our investigators considered Mr Ns complaint based on the evidence he 
alone had provided and felt that it should be upheld. Briefly, she said that:
Integritys failure to comply with our request for its file and evidence of its dealings 
with Mr N since November 2018 was in breach of Financial Conduct Authority 
Dispute Resolution rule 3.5.11 and Part XVI, section 231 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act  2000;
Integrity had written to Mr N to notify him that it would no longer be able to offer him 
ongoing financial advice from 16 November 2018. It also suggested that his personal 
details, and responsibility for providing ongoing advice, should pass to another 
named adviser firm. Mr N didnt give his consent for this firm to become his adviser 
and confirmed that he wished to appoint his own adviser;
The adviser recommended by Integrity subsequently wrote to Mr N introducing itself 
even though Mr N had specifically requested Integrity not to pass his personal details 
to this firm;
Integrity continued to receive fee payments between November 2018 and April 2019 
of around £710 from insurers with whom Mr N held policies for which Integrity no 
longer acted as the servicing agent. 
 
Therefore, unless Integrity can provide evidence to the contrary, she recommended that it 
should compensate Mr N by:
reimbursing him all fees it, or the new adviser, received between 24 November 2018 
and 1 April 2019 plus;
interest on each payment at eight per annum simple from the date it was paid to the 
date of settlement;£250 for the trouble and upset Mr N has suffered in this matter and for the breach of 
data protection rules.
   
In response, Mr N accepted the investigators view.
As we have received no response from Integrity since March 2020, the complaint has been 
referred to me for review.
What Ive decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Integrity has failed to provide any evidence of its dealings with Mr N since November 
2018, I have based my decision on the information provided by him.
Mr N and his wife have each complained about policies they held individually and jointly 
which have been dealt with as separate cases.
Its evident that Integrity did write to its clients, including Mr N, on 23 November 2018, 
advising that, with effect from 16 November, it could no longer provide him ongoing service 
and advice. It confirmed it had arranged for another firm to take responsibility for servicing 
his investments, and that this firm would be writing to him shortly to explain more about the 
services it offered.
Integrity explained that, if Mr N didnt wish for his ongoing service and personal data to be 
automatically transferred to this firm, he should let Integrity know as soon as possible. 
Mr N emailed Integrity in November 2018 to confirm that he didnt give consent for their (his 
and Mrs Ns) ongoing service and personal data to be transferred to this firm. Integrity 
acknowledged that both Mr N and Mrs N had made this request and updated its record to 
confirm that neither of them wished to transfer servicing right to this new adviser. It did, 
however, confirm that this adviser had already posted a welcome letter to them.
In these circumstances, Integrity wasnt entitled to retain fees from insurers in respect of 
investments held by Mr N for which it now ceased to be the servicing agent.
Under Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Conduct of Business (COBS) Rule 6.1A.5: 
A firm may receive an adviser charge that is no longer payable (for example, after the 
service it is received in payment for have  been amended or terminated) provided the firm 
refunds any such payment to the retail client.
So, given its evident Integrity notified Mr N that it would cease to provide him an ongoing 
advisory service from 16 November 2018, any fees it received from his insurers since that 
date should be refunded to him.
I do think, however, that any compensation for trouble and upset to which Mr N has been 
put in this matter should be shared with his wife and this has been awarded in the decision I 
have made over their joint complaint.
Putting things right 
I require Integrity IFA Ltd to reimburse him the fees it received from insurers between
16 November 2018 and 1 April 2019 in respect of policies held by Mr N for which it was the servicing agent before 16 November 2018, plus interest on these sums at the rate of eight 
per cent per annum simple from the date of each payment was received to the date of 
settlement.
It seems a fee of £21 was received by the new adviser and this should be reimbursed to 
him by Integrity IFA Ltd as well, as it seems that it had passed his personal detail to the 
new adviser against his wishes.
My decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Kim Davenport
Ombudsman