DRN-4204148
The complaint
Miss I has complained that Santander UK Plc gave her misleading information about 
whether she was able to have a student account whilst she was a postgraduate student.
Account History
Miss Is account history is as follows:
123 Student account from August 2016
Changed to a 123 Graduate account in July 2019
Change to a Everyday current account in July 2021
What happened
Miss I says that she started her postgraduate studies in September 2021, however noticed 
she was incurring charges on her account. 
Miss I says she enquired with Santander why she did not have student account, given that 
she was a student again at university. Miss I says she was given conflicting information 
about whether she could or couldnt have a student account.
Miss I says that Santander asked her to provide evidence that she was a student so that it 
could change the type of account she held, but when she provided it, her account was still 
not changed.
In response to the complaint, Santander acknowledged that Miss I had been given incorrect 
information, so paid Miss I £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Santander also 
paid Miss I £85.94 to cover the interest applied to her account for the months of June, July 
and August 2022 and confirmed that its student accounts are only available for 
undergraduate studies, so Miss I was not eligible to have a Student account again.
Miss I referred her complaint to our service, and our adjudicators ultimately thought that 
Santander should pay a further £50 compensation (so a total of £100) to Miss I, for distress 
and inconvenience caused to her by indicating she was able to have a student account when 
that was not actually the case. Santander agreed to the adjudicators assessment, but Miss I 
didnt.
As Miss I disagreed with the adjudicators assessments, the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I uphold this complaint in part, and think that Santander should 
pay Miss I a further £50 of compensation. I have explained why I think this is reasonable 
below.
Was Miss I eligible for a student account?
When Miss I started her postgraduate studies in September 2021, I can see that her account 
was a standard Everyday current account by that stage. 
Looking at the terms and conditions of the Graduate account that Miss I held before hand, it 
was only available to have for two years. As such, I think Miss Is account was changed from 
a Graduate account to an Everyday account in July 2021 correctly - as shed had it for two 
years by then - in line with the terms and conditions of the Graduate account.
Santander says that it wouldve written to Miss I to inform her about this change to her 
account. And having listened to Miss Is call to our service, she did confirm that shed 
received a letter to say that shed start being charged interest on her overdraft. So it seems 
that Miss I was correctly informed and was aware that her account was changed to a 
standard current account in 2021  and therefore that she would be charged interest on any 
overdrawn balance.
I understand the basis of this complaint is that when Miss I started her postgraduate studies, 
she thought shed be able to have a student account again.
Santander has provided our service with the Student account terms and conditions that were 
in place at the time, and they do say that a student account is only available for 
undergraduate students. 
So it is the case that Miss I was not eligible for a student account in September 2021, when 
she started her postgraduate studies. This in turn means Miss I was not able to have an 
interest free overdraft, that is usually included as a feature of a Santander student account. 
As such, I cant reasonably say that Santander was acting incorrectly or unreasonably in 
applying interest on any overdrawn balances on Miss Is account since July 2021. 
Incorrect information provided
Even though Miss I was not eligible for another student account, she says she spoke to 
Santander and was, at times, given information to suggest that she could have a student 
account again.
In its file on this complaint, Santander has acknowledged that Miss I may have been 
provided with incorrect information about her being able to have a student account again.
In response to this, Santander paid Miss I £50. However, I agree with the adjudicator that 
Santander should pay Miss I a further £50 compensation. I say this because I think that £100 
compensation better reflects the distress and inconvenience Miss I has experienced, 
particularly as Miss I appears to have been misled more than once and it seems it was only 
after Miss I raised a complaint was it confirmed once and for all that she could not in fact 
have a student account.
Overdraft interest
To resolve her complaint, Miss I has asked that Santander write off the interest that has 
been applied to her account, and she says she would then repay the amount left 
outstanding. I have considered whether a further refund of the overdraft interest is 
warranted, given the misleading information that Miss I was given. But in the circumstances, 
I dont think it is. 
Had things gone as they shouldve and Miss I was informed that she could not have a 
Student account, Miss I says that she wouldve paid off her overdraft on her account. But Miss I continued to operate her account within an overdrawn balance since she started 
her studies in September 2021  even though she was aware that she didnt have a student 
account at the time, and therefore any overdrawn balance would incur interest. 
Furthermore, when Santander did confirm in its final response letter in July 2022 that Miss I 
was not eligible to have a student account whilst she was a postgraduate student, Miss I still 
did not pay off the overdrawn balance from her account. So I think that its likely in the 
circumstances, that had Miss I been given the correct information, Miss I would still have 
made the payments from the account that she did and therefore wouldve still incurred the 
overdraft interest that has accrued on the account.
 
Because of this, I dont think its reasonable to ask Santander to write off the overdraft 
interest that was applied to Miss Is account.
Settling the outstanding debt
I understand that there is still an outstanding overdrawn balance on the account. I recognise 
that having this outstanding is a cause of concern for Miss I. 
As outlined above, as the amount outstanding is rightfully owed, I cant reasonably ask 
Santander to write off the debt. Santander has however said that the account has been on 
hold Since December 2022  the evidence provided by Santander indicates that is the case. 
Santander says it can set up an arrangement for Miss I to repay the outstanding debt for a 
period up to 15 months. During such an arrangement, Santander says it will report (to Miss 
Is credit file) that the account is in an arrangement plan, but the account wont appear as 
being in default during the arrangement and all charges and fees will be suspended during 
that time.
Santander says that to do this, Miss I will need to complete a budget planner to ensure the 
arrangement is affordable. Again this seems reasonable in the circumstances.
I think what Santander proposes to assist Miss I in clearing the debt is reasonable, and I 
would urge Miss I to contact Santander directly, to discuss the next steps to clear the debt. 
So in summary, Its clear that Miss I has been given conflicting information, which at times 
gave her false hope that she could have a student account during her postgraduate studies. 
But it is unfortunately the case that Miss I was never eligible to have a student account with 
Santander in that time. So, whilst I cant say that Santander did anything wrong in applying 
overdraft interest to the account, I think that Santander should pay Miss I compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience she suffered due to the incorrect information she was 
provided. 
Putting things right
To put matters right Santander should pay Miss I a further £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience that this matter has caused her.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Santander 
UK Plc to do what I have outlined above, to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 Thomas White
Ombudsman