DRN-2143627
The complaint
Mr A is complaining about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. Hes unhappy with the cash 
in lieu settlement they paid him under his motor insurance policy, after his car had been 
involved in an accident.
What happened
After Mr As car had been in an accident he called Admiral and told them he wanted a cash 
settlement instead of having his car repaired. Admiral said the cash in lieu figure was 
£984.65. They deducted Mr As excess of £250 and sent him £734.65.
Mr A says that when he spoke to the approved repairer they estimated the cost of repairs at 
£400 more than the amount Admiral sent him. He thinks Admiral should have paid him the 
amount estimated by the approved repairer. 
In their final response letter, Admiral said they werent upholding Mr As complaint. They said 
theyd received an estimate of £984.65 from the approved repairer and their in-house 
engineers had confirmed the amount paid to Mr A was accurate. They said they couldnt 
comment on what he might be charged for the repair as a private customer.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigators view was that it should be upheld. But 
Admiral didnt agree. They said our investigator had based his view on what Mr As policy 
said about using a non-approved repairer  and they said this wasnt relevant for a cash in 
lieu settlement. Our investigator didnt agree with Admiral and so the complaint has come to 
me.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 July 2020. In that provisional decision I explained that I 
wasnt inclined to uphold Mr As complaint. I said: 
To understand a bit more about what happened, I listened to the calls that took place 
between Mr A and Admiral before the CIL settlement was paid. It seems Mr A called 
Admiral to ask for a CIL settlement  he said this was because it wasnt convenient for 
him to get the repairs done at the time. Two days later, Admiral told Mr A they could 
offer him a cash settlement. They said theyd had an estimate from the garage of 
£984.65 so the settlement would be that figure, less Mr As excess of £250. 
Mr A seemed happy to accept the figure he was given on the phone. He didnt question 
the figure or mention any higher estimates. He was asked if he had any questions and 
didnt have any. 
Ive looked at the policy documents for Mr As policy. I cant see that any of the 
documents explain what would happen in the event of a cash settlement. So, Ive 
thought about whether I think Admiral have treated Mr A fairly. 
I dont think Admiral was obliged to accept Mr As request for a cash settlement  the 
policy documents state that they will pay for repairs to Mr As car, either with an 
approved or non-approved repairer. 
But Mr A asked for cash, and Admiral were willing to settle on this basis. They explained 
that the amount they were offering Mr A was the amount theyd been quoted for the cost 
of repairs. And I think Mr A understood that he didnt have to accept the cash settlement 
figure quoted and Admiral would have paid for the approved repairer to fix his car 
instead.
Admiral have sent us their estimate from the approved repairer. This shows that Mr As 
vehicle was inspected before Mr A called to ask for a cash settlement, and it shows that 
the estimated cost to Admiral for the repairs would be £984.65 including VAT. So, Im 
inclined to say that Admiral have paid Mr A the amount it would likely have cost them to 
repair the car if Mr A hadnt asked for a cash settlement.
Mr A hasnt provided any evidence of the estimate he said he was given. So, I cant see 
that hes lost out as a result of the settlement amount. And I dont think its fair to ask 
Admiral to pay more than the repairs would have cost them if they arranged for the 
repair themselves in accordance with the policy terms. 
Neither Mr A nor Admiral has commented on my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any comments to change my mind, Ive nothing further to 
add. My decision remains the same, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint about Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman