DRN-1138938
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) mishandled his 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 15 July 2019 Mr S reported that someone had stolen his car. At first LV provided a hire 
car. But then LV declined Mr Ss claim for the value of his car. He complained about that. He 
also complained that for the weekend of 9 August 2019 LV didnt offer a hire car until he was 
already on a train.
LV sent a final response email dated 20 August 2019. It admitted it couldve handled the hire 
car better. It said it would reimburse £96.10 for Mr Ss train ticket. It still declined to pay the 
value of the car. But it said it would pay £50.00 compensation for poor service. It sent Mr S a 
cheque for £146.10.
Unhappy with that, Mr S brought his complaint to us later in August 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that LV 
had acted fairly when dealing with Mr Ss claim and when responding to his complaint.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He suggested suspension of his policy, but LV didnt agree.
LV is not only refusing to settle his claim but also seeking to get more money out of 
him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss car was made in 2005. Ive seen a record that it passed an MOT on 16 July 2018 with 
a recorded mileage of about 180,000. 
Mr S renewed his LV policy for a year from 21 June 2019. It gave him comprehensive cover 
for repairs. It included a hire car while his was being fixed. The policy schedule gave Mr Ss 
address in the north of England. He agreed to pay the annual premium by instalments.
Like most motor policies, Mr Ss entitled his insurer to decline a claim if it was fraudulent, 
false or exaggerated.
The MOT on Mr Ss car expired on 15 July 2019. On that day Mr S reported it as stolen in 
London. From the call recording, I note that Mr S told LV he had last driven the car on 6 July 
2019 using the only key he had.
From a replacement policy schedule, I think LV recorded a London address for Mr S and 
increased the premium. But I dont think Mr S complained about that at the time.
Whilst I can understand that Mr S stopped paying the instalments on a car he no longer had, 
I dont find that LV was obliged to suspend the policy. And I think he agreed that it should be 
cancelled.
LV engaged experts who looked at the key Mr S had provided. They said it had last been 
used on 17 March 2019. So LV asked Mr S for the key used on 6 July 2019. As he couldnt 
provide it, LV declined to proceed with his claim.
The absence of the key used on 6 July 2019 suggests that someone had driven the car 
using another key. That didnt match what Mr S had told LV. So I dont find that LV treated 
him unfairly by declining his claim.
Ive thought about the shortcomings in LVs service around the provision of a hire car. And 
Ive thought about some shortcomings in the way LV communicated with Mr S. Together 
these shortcomings caused him a level of inconvenience and distress. But Im satisfied that 
£146.10 is more than reasonable compensation for this.
Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct LV to do any more in response to Mr Ss 
claim or his complaint.
Mr S has sent us a copy of a letter asking him to pay about £340.00. I think that may be to 
do with the change of address. But  as he hadnt complained to LV about that before the 
final response  Mr S will have to pursue any such complaint separately.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do anything further in response to 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman