DRN-3844596
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In March 2015, Mr S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system including voltage optimiser and hot water controller 
(the system) to be installed at his home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr S 
decided to purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement 
with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In February 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ss behalf under section 140 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Mr S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had 
been made which made the relationship between Shawbrook and Mr S unfair on him:
The system would be self-funding through the benefits (feed-in tariff income and 
savings) would cover the loan repayments. 
Shawbrook responded to say that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to 
Mr S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. The CMC then referred 
a complaint about this to the Financial Ombudsman Service. We informed Shawbrook of the 
complaint. 
Our adjudicator found that although Mr S had been told the system would be self-funding, 
the evidence didnt show this to be a misrepresentation. 
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 140 of the Act. Section 140 
gives the courts power to determine whether the relationship between the creditor and the 
debtor was unfair to the debtor, for certain reasons. Where the court finds there was an 
unfair relationship, it has wide-ranging powers to address matters.. 
As Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 140 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Shawbrook 
if the relationship was unfair on Mr S. 
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook. The 
CMC says there were misrepresentations made by P that caused the relationship between 
Shawbrook and Mr S to be unfair on him. So, Ive considered whether there were any 
misrepresentations and if so, whether that made the relationship unfair.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr S says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be self-funding in 
that the fed-in tariff (FIT) income and savings would cover the cost of the loan.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr Ss testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr Ss 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (£9,791.00), the total charge for 
credit (interest and charges), total amount payable (£19,405.80), the term of the loan and the 
contractual monthly repayments (£107.81). The credit agreement clearly sets out the cash 
price of the goods.
The quote contains a graph titled earnings and savings against monthly payments year 1. 
This clearly shows that the monthly payments exceed the savings and income for only part 
of the year. So, I dont think Mr S was told the system would be self-funding on a monthly 
basis from the start.Theres a section headed System Performance and Returns with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months because this is the length of the loan that Mr S entered into with Shawbrook. This 
table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £106.05. For each year of the 
15-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that 
figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £106.05, to give an 
average difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan 
repayment in each year. 
I think this table shows that the benefits of the system over the course of each year of the 
loan would exceed the total annual loan repayments. In other words, the system would be 
self-funding on a yearly basis. 
The following table details the estimated performance over 20 years, including FIT income 
(generation and export tariff), voltage optimiser (VO) savings and hot water (H/W) controller 
savings. This shows that by the end of year 11 the overall benefits that Mr S could expect to 
receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. It also 
confirms that the estimated monthly return is at least £112.58 in year one, which is more 
than the monthly loan repayment shown in the quote and on the credit agreement. 
So, I think it is likely that Mr S was told the system would be self-funding on an annual basis 
 in that the FIT income and savings would exceed the annual loan repayments each year. 
Ive looked at the FIT statements provided. These show that Mr S received £518.56 for 
electricity generated between 13 April 2015 and 9 March 2016, a period of 331 days. This 
would equate to at least £570 for the year. This is slightly less than shown in the quote 
above, where the combined generation and export FIT income was £612.51. But Im 
satisfied this is within a reasonable margin of error for the estimate of both the electricity 
generated and the resulting income. So, I dont think the FIT income estimate was a 
misrepresentation. 
Ive been unable to determine the actual savings made from the generated electricity used 
by Mr S (rather than buying equivalent electricity from the grid), voltage optimiser and hot 
water controller. This would be very hard to do even if all energy bills were available to look 
at, since savings are largely dependent on how Mr S uses energy within his home, which 
could change over time. And the saving is the difference between what he has paid for 
energy and what he wouldve paid without the system  it is not simply a comparison of how 
much he was paying before installation and how much he has been paying since. 
I have however looked at the assumptions made by P when coming up with the estimated 
savings. I would expect those assumptions to be reasonable. And, since they were 
estimates, I dont think the savings were guaranteed, or that it would be a misrepresentation 
if the actual savings were less than estimated.  
P used a self-consumption rate of 50% to calculate the electricity savings from using 
electricity generated by the solar panels. This was industry standard at the time, so I dont 
think it was unreasonable. 
I think it is likely that P wouldve asked to see an electricity bill to determine the actual 
electricity unit rate Mr S was paying at the time. But it appears he did not provide this and an 
estimate of 15.31p per kWh was used. While this was higher than Mr S was actually paying 
at the time, I dont think that P could reasonably have known that. And I dont think the 
assumption used was unreasonable. 
The voltage optimiser and hot water controller savings were likely based on information 
provided by the manufacturers of those two products. And that an industry body had 
approved Ps method of calculation. So, I dont think I can reasonably say those estimates 
were based on unreasonable assumptions or were misrepresentations. 
I have also looked at the estimated annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and RPI inflation 
increases used by P. I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these were reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. If actual inflation since installation has been lower, then the 
corresponding income and savings will not have increased as much as estimated. But that 
would not be a misrepresentation.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2004 to 2013 And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr S couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr S entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr S to enter 
into the contract for the system or that made the relationship between Shawbrook and Mr S 
unfair on him. And Ive not found any other reason to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman