DRN-2891363
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined his claim. 
  
What happened
Mr K has a group income protection policy via his employer, underwritten by Aviva. In 2017, 
Mr K became unwell and stopped working in May 2017. He made a claim in January 2018 
but Aviva declined the claim as it didnt think the medical evidence showed he was 
incapacitated. 
Mr K complained and unhappy with Avivas response, he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Aviva had unfairly declined 
Mr Ks claim. He was satisfied Mr K was incapacitated throughout the deferred period and 
recommended that Aviva pay benefit from January 2018 with 8% simple interest added as 
well as £500 compensation for the additional stress and anxiety caused by unfairly declining 
the claim. 
Aviva disagreed and further evidence, in the form of an independent medical examination 
(IME), was obtained and submitted. An agreement couldnt be reached.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
I sent an email with my provisional findings to both sides which outlined the key facts of the 
case and my conclusions as follows:
Mr K became absent in May 2017.
He received appropriate medical care and attention from a consultant and 
occupational health.
Mr K reported improvements in July 2017 and a return to work was attempted but 
failed and he was advised to stay off work. I am satisfied that he was therefore 
unable to work throughout this period despite the improvements as evidenced by the 
failed return to work and advice from his consultant to remain off work, due to his 
symptoms.
Mr Ks consultant referred him to a clinical psychologist for CBT.
Mr K moved abroad to be with his family but continued to seek advice and treatment 
from his psychologist.
Mr K had reported improvements and was planning a return to the UK to work but 
had a relapse in October 2017. The consultant advised Mr K he was medically unfit 
and should remain off work for another 3 months  this would take him to February 
2018.
Aviva reviewed and declined the claim in 2019 and suggested that Mr K attend an 
IME in London for which he would need to travel. Aviva also said that the claim was 
notified late but I cant see that this prejudiced Avivas position and so I think it is fair 
to start the deferred period when Mr K first became absent.
Mr Ks cardiologist wrote a letter to confirm that Mr K was unable to travel to London 
to attend an IME.
An IME eventually took place remotely in August 2021 which concludes that Mr K 
might have been able to work in late summer 2017 but was bed-ridden towards the 
end of 2017 and 2018. Based on the available medical information and the history of 
his symptoms, the independent consultant thought Mr K was too poorly to work in 
2018 and perhaps in 2019 and seemed to improve in 2020 so might have been able 
to commence work in 2020.
Aviva have asked to re-assess the claim and discuss with their policyholder, Mr Ks 
employers.
It is my role to consider the complaint brought to my office  which was that Aviva 
incorrectly declined Mr Ks claim.
Having considered the file in full, I agree that Aviva unfairly declined the claim and 
Im satisfied that the medical evidence shows Mr K was incapacitated due to his 
illness between May and August 2017 and then from October 2017 to at least 2020. 
The medical notes show Mr K was starting to improve in June 2020.
So I think it would be fair for Aviva to accept the claim, starting the deferred period 
from the date of first absence (May 2017), taking into account Mr Ks inability to work 
between May and August 2017 and October 2017 to June 2020.
Aviva is entitled to review an ongoing claim so it can assess the recent IME as a 
review of the claim to decide whether a partial benefit is payable from June 2020 
onwards.
I dont think its fair to Mr K to delay payment any longer  payment should be made 
from the point the deferred period was satisfied  up to June 2020  that is what my 
final decision would say. After June 2020, Aviva would need to consider and explain 
to Mr K how it intends to calculate any partial benefit for 2020 onwards. If Mr K is 
unhappy with Avivas review of his claim and calculation of his benefit  that would be 
the subject of a new complaint.
I would like to thank both sides for responding to my provisional findings. 
Aviva has raised a number of points which I have fully read and considered. Whilst I havent 
detailed and responded to every point, Ive summarised and addressed the points which I 
consider to be key to my decision. 
Aviva has said:
Mr K failed to arrange medical cover when he was abroad in November 2017. The consultant advised Mr K to remain off work for three months from November 
2017 but with further evaluation from a local physician.  But there is no evidence that 
Mr K sought further assistance for his symptoms during this period. 
Had Aviva been advised of Mr Ks claim half way through the deferred period, it 
would have made contact with Mr K earlier and it is possible Aviva would have been 
made aware of Mr Ks move abroad and it could have made arrangements to obtain 
supportive medical evidence at an earlier time.
The IME concluded the medical evidence was inadequate and there was no accurate 
assessment of functions. This supports Avivas concerns about the medical evidence 
at the time. Furthermore, the IME consultant has advised that Mr K has not received 
appropriate treatment. 
When the claim decision was made, Aviva had little medical information. Aviva did 
not have the consultants letter which confirmed Mr K was unable to travel. This only 
came to light during this offices involvement.
Mr K has continued to submit medical evidence to this office which Aviva hadnt 
seen. And so the claim wasnt unfairly declined in 2019. 
Mr K could have contacted Aviva to arrange an IME in 2020 when his condition 
improved. 
Since the IME, Aviva accept the claim is payable until mid-2020. But the medical 
evidence wasnt available prior to the IME. It has only been since Covid-19 that 
virtual IMEs have been possible. 
Aviva shouldnt be penalised for its decision in 2019 when the medical evidence was 
inadequate.
Accepting liability to pay the claim from 1 February 2018, when Mr Ks employers 
stopped full pay, to June 2020, is only supported because of the IME. 
Had Mr K attended an IME in 2019 or if Aviva had been notified of the claim earlier, it 
is likely recommendations could have been made to assist recovery which could 
have led to Mr K being fit to work at an earlier stage. 
The IME advises Mr K does not feel he can resume work and his perception of his 
inability to work will be a barrier. It therefore wasnt unreasonable to challenge the 
medical evidence based on Mr Ks self-reporting to his consultant in 2018 and 2019 
when Mr K hadnt physically been seen.
Aviva feels it is paying a claim based on the word perhaps as the IME consultant 
refers to perhaps 2019 he was too poorly to work.
Mr K has made the following comments, which I have summarised:
Although his condition improved in September 2017, he wasnt fit for work.
Ive carefully considered both Avivas and Mr Ks replies to my provisional decision but I see 
no reason to depart from it, for the following reasons. 
Mr K has explained that during the period November to December 2017 he was arranging 
his health insurance. Once he received this, he made an appointment with a specialist. The 
specialist advised Mr K to rest. So even if Mr K had seen the specialist at an earlier point, he 
would have been advised to rest.
In addition, I still dont think Aviva fairly declined the claim when Mr K appealed. He provided 
additional medical evidence which explained his symptoms and that he was bed-ridden. The 
IME consultant based his opinion on the medical evidence which was available to Aviva at 
the time and during the appeals process. When Mr K appealed, Im satisfied the medical 
evidence showed that Mr K was under the care of a consultant who confirmed that Mr K 
wasnt able to work. So Im satisfied that Mr K proved his claim. Ive also considered what Aviva say about being advised of the claim half way through the 
deferred period. The half-way point was in August 2017 and at that time, Aviva would have 
requested medical records. Even if Mr K had mentioned his plans to go abroad, the evidence 
shows he intended on returning to London but decided to stay abroad later on in the 
deferred period. So Im not satisfied Avivas position has been prejudiced as it wouldnt have 
known that Mr K would be remaining abroad if the claim had been notified earlier. 
Although the IME consultant has advised that Mr K hasnt received appropriate treatment, 
this isnt something Mr K can be held responsible for. On balance, Mr K has shown that he 
was unable to work due to his symptoms and medical conditions. 
The IME concluded that face to face and hands on assessment and treatment wouldnt have 
made any difference. And doesnt expect someone with Mr Ks condition to be monitored 
face to face on a regular basis. It also said Mr Ks fitness to work depends on his level of 
functioning at any given time. Mr K was advised to take bed-rest. Mr K and his consultant 
have confirmed he was bed bound in 2018 and 2019. Mr K confirmed this to Aviva before 
the IME took place. 
Aviva has also said it didnt receive the consultants letter which confirmed that Mr K was 
unable to travel. I note this but Aviva was told by Mr K that he wasnt able to travel. Even if 
Aviva had received the letter, it hasnt said what it would have done differently. 
It also says Mr K could have arranged an IME in 2020, when he got better. However, Mr K 
disputes that he was getting better, and this will be subject to a further review by Aviva 
following the IME. If Mr K is unhappy with Avivas decision relating to his claim post June 
2020, that would be the subject of a new complaint and so I wont comment on that any 
further.
Aviva has said it shouldnt be penalised for its decision in 2019 which was based on 
inadequate medical evidence. I should say that its not my role to punish or penalise Aviva. I 
have considered the effect of the decline of the claim on Mr K, including his appeal. I am 
satisfied Mr K provided sufficient evidence of his incapacity to Aviva prior to the IME and so I 
am compensating him for the impact this has had on him. Its not intended as a penalty for 
Aviva. 
Aviva feels it is paying the claim on the word perhaps. But as the IME was agreed to by 
both sides, and was based on all of the available medical evidence which Aviva has now 
seen, I think its fair for Aviva to pay the claim. I think the report provides sufficient reasons 
for Aviva to pay the claim until at least June 2020. 
Mr K has commented on his ability to work in September 2017. But having considered the 
case again, Mr K satisfied the deferred period by January 2018 which is when his employer 
stopped paying him. And so his ability to work in September 2017 doesnt affect his claim. 
Having considered all of the above, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings 
which I adopt as part of this final decision. I think it is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for Aviva to accept and pay the claim from when Mr Ks employer stopped 
paying him. And to pay Mr K £500 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused to 
him by unfairly declining his claim and maintaining that decline at the appeal stage. 
    
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited to:Pay Mr Ks claim with 8% simple interest from the date each payment was due to the 
date of payment
Pay Mr K £500 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused to him as a 
result of unfairly declining the claim
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman