DRN-1870639
 
The complaint
Mrs L complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited, trading as 
Scottish Provident (the business) failed to administer her reviewable whole of life policy (with 
Critical Illness Cover (CIC) and Total and Permanent Disability Cover (TPD)) correctly. 
In short, she says: 
The business failed to consider her non-smoker status. 
The documentation at the point of sale didnt confirm that shed been categorised as 
a smoker. 
The Q & A document she received in September 2018 confirmed that the business 
would review her status during the policy review, but she has now confirmed that it 
wouldnt. 
Although her intermediary  a third party business responsible for applying for the 
policy on her behalf  contacted the business in 2009 to notify it that she was no 
longer a smoker, the business didnt amend her status following reviews in the 2013 
or 2018. 
By virtue of the business holding the incorrect information, the business is in breach 
of General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR).  
She unhappy that the business didnt proactively ask her about changes in her 
status. 
Overall the business isnt treating its customers fairly. 
 
What happened
Mrs L took out a Pegasus Personal Assurance Plan (a reviewable whole of life policy, with 
CIC and TPD), in November 2003. 
The business partially upheld the complaint although it didnt agree with all of Mrs Ls points, 
it said:
Its unable to alter the policy to reflect that she was no longer a smoker. This is 
because the terms of the policy were agreed based on the information provided in 
Mrs Ls original application form. 
Mrs L confirmed  through her intermediary  that she was a smoker, so smoker 
rates were applied. 
At each review it looks to see if smoker rates were applied at the outset, this is then 
factored into its calculations for all the policy reviews. Its satisfied that the wording 
within its review documentation accurately reflects this. 
In March 2009, it sent alteration quotes to Mrs Ls intermediary but hasnt received 
any re-issue instructions on non-smoker rates back.  
In the circumstances it wasnt wrong to accept and subsequently review her policy 
under smoker rates. Its sorry for failing to address her concerns in a timely manner, so by way of apology 
it offered £50 compensation for trouble and upset caused. 
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
It was confirmed by Mrs Ls intermediary that she was an occasional smoker, so the 
policy started based on her being a smoker. The business has done nothing wrong 
by following instructions. 
Although Mrs L has now confirmed that shes not a smoker, and hasnt smoked for 
the last 10 years, the business has confirmed that its unable to change her status. 
Although the policy schedule doesnt confirm that she was a smoker, its likely that 
the point of sale documentation would have, although unsurprisingly given the length 
of time thats passed theres very little information available.  
Despite what Mrs L says about the September 2018 review documentation, it doesnt 
say that the business will review age, sex, smoker status at the time of review. It 
says that it takes these factors into account  rather than review/amend them. And 
these are, amongst other factors, what it considers in order to decide whether or not 
the premium is enough to maintain the sum assured.   
Although in March 2009 Mrs Ls intermediary indicated that it was going to obtain a 
quote from the business (for a non-smoker), it doesnt look like this was chased up, 
and the business didnt receive any request from her intermediary. 
Nevertheless, the business confirmed that once the policy is set up as a smoker 
status, it cant be amended. So even if it had been notified by Mrs Ls intermediary 
that she had stopped smoking, it wouldnt have had an impact on the 2013 and 2018 
reviews.   
The business wasnt obliged to actively notify customers that they may apply for a 
new policy, so hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so. 
Were unable to investigate any breaches of GDPR by the businesses. The 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) might be a better place for this type of 
complaint.  
 
Mrs L disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, she said:
Age changes (along with gender possibly) are taken into account, so why cant a 
change smoker status be considered during the reviews. 
It wouldve been clearer for the business to say that it wont take into account a 
change in smoking issues.  
The business accepted that it hadnt responded to Mrs L in a timely manner so 
provided her with £50 compensation for trouble and upset which she refused 
because she was referring her complaint to our service.  
She understands that were not the ICO, but still feels the business documentation 
should at least indicate smoker status at inception. 
 
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs L says Im unable to say that 
the business hasnt administered the policy correctly. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Ls strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions 
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by her and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
Although its not entirely clear what Mrs L was or wasnt told about the policy (by her 
intermediary) at the point of sale, Im only looking at the complaint against the business with 
regards to its administration, and not a complaint against the seller. 
So, if Mrs L wasnt told that she was put down as a smoker (albeit occasional smoker) or that 
the policy cant be changed with regards to her smoker status if she later stops smoking, I 
dont think I can blame the business (as the policy provider) for this. 
I note that Mrs Ls intermediary  the third-party business that was responsible for the 
application and sale of the policy  put her down as an occasional smoker and thats the 
basis upon which the policy was set up, and the premiums and sum assured subsequently 
calculated. 
So on balance it seems to me that the policy was administered in relation to the way that it 
was set up and the way that it was meant to be. 
I note that Mrs L says she has never been a smoker, but in her youth, shed have the 
occasional social cigarette and hasnt touched a cigarette in 10 years. But given her answer 
on balance I think its unlikely that she wouldve been classed as a non-smoker. 
In any event, its a matter for the underwriters  in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate 
commercial judgement  whether (or not) to class Mrs L as a smoker. In the circumstances 
Im unable to say that the business has done anything wrong by classing her as a smoker 
based on her answer.   
I appreciate the points Mrs L makes about the documentation provided at the time, but on 
balance Im unable to say that the key policy documentation wouldnt have made clear that 
the policy was set up based on her being a smoker. Albeit 15 years on from the point of sale, 
Im conscious that theres very little point of sale documentation available and nothing on this 
point.  
It seems that in 2009 Mrs Ls intermediary made enquiries about obtaining a new quote from 
the business  for a non-smoker status  but it doesnt look like that was followed up. In the 
circumstances I dont think the business has then done anything wrong by not chasing up Mrs Ls intermediary about whether (or not) she wished to proceed with a new policy with a 
non-smoker status. I think that was a matter for her and her adviser.   
I also dont think that it was for the business  as the policy provider  to advise Mrs L to 
cancel her existing policy and get a new one. Again I think it was a matter for her and her 
adviser. 
Despite what Mrs L says, Im satisfied that the business made reasonably clear that itd take 
into account a number of factors including, age, sex and smoker status at the regular 
reviews (on the basis of how the policy was first set up), not that it would check her latest 
smoker status at each review. 
In a recent letter dated November 2009, I note the business said:
The terms and conditions of the policy that are set by the underwriters prior 
to commencement, based on the information you gave to us at that time and these cannot 
be changed once the policy is in force. As such, unfortunately we are unable to alter the 
smoker status of your policy.
So the fact that the intermediary sought to get a new quote in 2009 for a non-smoker status 
 but didnt follow matters up  suggests that it probably knew how the policy operated. 
I note the business offered Mrs L £50 compensation for the trouble and upset for it failing to 
deal with her complaint in a timely matter. In the circumstances, I think this is reasonable. 
In conclusion, Im not persuaded that the business behaved unreasonably by refusing to 
change how the policy was set up with Mrs L as a smoker. I understand that this is a policy 
decision in line with its terms and conditions.  
I appreciate Mrs Ls overall concerns with the situation and recognise she will be 
disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. But having given the 
matter careful consideration, I dont feel able to conclude that this complaint should be 
upheld. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. I think The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limiteds offer to pay Mrs L £50 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22July2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman