DRN-3197673
The complaint
Ms B says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH) lent to her irresponsibly. 
Ms B says that she was in a debt spiral when LaH lent to her and she thinks it should have 
found out about this and not approved the lending.  
  
What happened
This complaint is about seven home collected loans LaH provided to Ms B between October 
2012 and September 2015. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending 
is in the table below. 
loan date taken amountweekly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 04/10/2012 £500 32 21/03/2013
2 07/02/2013 £200 32 08/08/2013
3 21/03/2013 £750 41 16/01/2014
4 20/06/2013 £250 41 29/05/2014
5 08/08/2013 £200 32 17/07/2014
6 18/12/2014 £250 41 03/09/2015
7 03/09/2015 £375 41 written off
LaH has said that this Service shouldnt consider loans 1 to 5 as Ms B complained more 
than six years after they were started. So, it doesnt think this lending is within the jurisdiction 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator firstly said that she thought Ms B had complained in time. This is because 
whilst she made her complaint later than six years from when she started the loans there 
was no evidence that showed she was aware she could complain three years before she 
actually did. And this meant her complaint had been made in time. 
Our adjudicator then looked at the merits of the complaint and went on to partially uphold it. 
She didnt think that LaH had irresponsibly lent for loans 1 to 3. But she said that by loan 4 a 
proportionate check wouldve shown LaH that Ms B was having problems managing her 
money. And by loan 7 the lending pattern itself looked to have become harmful, and so LaH 
shouldve stopped lending at this point. 
LaH responded to the adjudicators opinion about the jurisdiction of this complaint only. It 
said that, essentially: 
We havent asked Ms B when she became aware she could complain. 
Ms B was in arrears with her lending as early as 2012. This continued throughout 
2013 and 2014 and again in 2016 and 2017. LaH has said there were extended 
periods of non-payment. 
So, she would have been aware that the loans were causing her problems more than 
three years before she made her complaint. And she should have been aware that 
she could complain about them much earlier than she did. 
This approach would be consistent with other answers that LaH, and its parent 
company, have received from the Financial Ombudsman Service recently.
Ms B didnt disagree with what the adjudicator said. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Ms B and LaH to 
decide whether we are able to look at all the loans being complained about. Having done so, 
Ive reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the power to consider all 
the loans being complained about. Ill explain why. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three 
years after the complainant (in this case, Ms B) knew, or should really have known she had 
reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found online 
in the FCAs Handbook. 
Its clear loans 1 to 5 were complained about more than six years after they were taken. 
However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Ms B was aware or ought to have been 
aware more than three years before she raised this complaint, that she had reason to 
complain. LaH has said that when Ms B struggled to repay the lending this shouldve caused 
her to realise she had reason to complain. But I dont think this is enough in this particular 
case to demonstrate that. 
I say this because whilst struggling to repay the lending would no doubt have led Ms B to 
realise there was a problem (in terms of the financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would 
have (or ought to have), in itself, made them aware that these problems were caused by LaH 
doing something wrong when it agreed the loans.
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Ms B was or should have been aware 
earlier of cause to complain more than three years before she complained. And I dont think I 
need to clarify this with Ms B. 
And, as LaH is aware, we look at each case individually. And its not helpful to compare 
outcomes with other cases. Even if, on face value, these cases seem similar. 
So, like our adjudicator, I think loans 1 to 5 were raised within the time limits I need to apply 
and that I do have the power to consider them. Ill now go on and consider whether or not I 
think all the loans complained about were lent responsibly. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LaH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Ms B didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont look at them in detail. 
I will say that I dont disagree with what the adjudicator said about this lending. 
And they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms B had with LaH. So, they are something 
I will take into account when considering the other loans she took.
Loans 4 to 6
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan 4 would most likely have shown 
that Ms B was having problems managing her money. This is because she had a number of 
other loans with another home credit provider which she was also making repayments to. 
And added to this LaH already knew that Ms B was having problems repaying the loans she 
had with it. And going forward these problems persisted. So, it was clear Ms B wasnt 
repaying this lending sustainably. 
I think that LaH wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks. And 
I think it wouldve seen Ms B wouldnt have been able repay the loans in a sustainable way. I think that LaH shouldnt have given loans 4 to 6 to Ms B and I think shes lost out as a result 
of this. So, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint about loans 4 to 6.
Loan 7
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loan 7 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of LaHs lending history 
with Ms B, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which LaH should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so LaH should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
7. I say this because:
Ms B had taken out seven loans over an approximately three year period. I think this 
is a long time to be using this type of credit. 
The amounts Ms B borrowed varied. But I think its reasonable to say her overall 
indebtedness didnt generally decrease. 
Whilst there was a break in the lending between loans 5 and 6, Ms B was generally 
provided with a new loan within a short time of settling a previous one. 
So LaH ought to have known that Ms B was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. And it ought to have realised it 
was more likely than not Ms Bs indebtedness was unsustainable. 
Ms B had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to LaH over an 
extended period.
I think that Ms B lost out because LaH approved loan 7 because:
This loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Bs indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Ms B borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 7 and LaH should put things right as set out 
below.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms B from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Ms B loans 4 to 7.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms B towards interest, fees 
and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but 
not including anything it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms B which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms B originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH may  if LaH choose to  use the total of A plus B to repay any principal which 
LaH has written-off.
D) LaH should pay any remaining refund to Ms B. If there is no refund left and still a balance 
outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for LaH to pursue this 
further.
E) LaH should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Ms Bs credit file in 
relation to loans 4 to 6. The overall pattern of Ms Bs borrowing for loan 7 means any 
information recorded about it is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Ms Bs 
credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Bs complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman