DRN-1177264
 
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint is that he hasnt been given a promised refund of interest and fees. 
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr T has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what I 
think are the main issues.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In 2018 Mr T was experiencing financial difficulties and Barclays agreed he could 
settle the £10,500 outstanding balance on his credit card account by paying the 
reduced amount of £7,000 in full and final settlement. This Mr T did and his account 
was then closed.
Despite this in May 2019 Mr T received a letter from Barclays saying he was due a 
refund of interest and default fees of almost some £660 under a remediation scheme. 
And this sum would be deducted from his accounts outstanding balance. About three 
weeks later Barclays acknowledged this letter was sent in error. 
Mr T wants Barclays to now pay him the £660 refund. But I dont think that would be 
fair. Its clear the letter was sent to Mr T in error as by then his account had been 
settled and closed. In doing so Barclays accepted a reduced balance from Mr T of 
£7,000 and wrote off £3,500 of what he owed. That was much more than the £660 
refund mentioned in its later letter. 
In addition, even if the account had still been open the £660 wouldve been deducted 
from its £10,500 balance and Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr T wouldve likely paid 
less than the agreed £7,000 to settle the account if this refund had been taken off the 
balance before any settlement was agreed. The payment of the reduced amount was 
also made between the parties in full and final settlement.
Consequently, I dont think on balance that I can fairly or reasonably require Barclays 
to now pay Mr T the sum of £660 for a refund interest and charges as he would like.
Receiving the remediation refund letter wouldve understandably caused Mr T some 
distress and inconvenience. Barclays has already paid him the remediation schemes 
inconvenience payment of £75 and a further £50 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Taking everything into account, including the level of awards we 
make, I think its acted fairly in this regard. And although I recognise Mr Ts strength 
of feeling and frustration I dont think I can reasonably ask it to do or pay anything 
more than its already done.Mr T would like an explanation of how the £660 figure was calculated. But as he isnt 
entitled to receive this refund its not something I can comment on. Furthermore the 
amount was calculated by Barclays as part of a remediation scheme for a number of 
its customers. We arent a regulator. We cant require a business to change its 
practices and procedures including in a remediation scheme like this. General issues 
about how the banking industry works are a matter for the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman