DRN-2095351
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1996. The policy was probably 
taken out in one of the banks branches and was in Mr Ws name only. It provided him with 
cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs W didnt 
agree. Mr W said, in summary, that:
During the meeting, everything was rushed and he became confused and didnt 
understand what was being agreed.
The advisor agreed he had no need for insurance or critical illness because he was 
entitled to generous sick pay.
Halifax should have taken more time to explain everything.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have also complained about a PPI policy sold in 1997, but that is being dealt 
with separately. My decision here only relates to the PPI sold in May 1996.
Halifax doesnt have any paperwork from the time of the sale so doesnt have a record of 
what took place. This isnt unreasonable or unsurprising given this took place so long ago. In 
cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint for the following reasons:
I havent seen anything to show that Halifax didnt make it clear that the PPI was a separate 
product. The PPI was to cover a mortgage taken out in 1988, so Mr and Mrs W must 
reasonably have known they didnt have to have it and that it was optional.
Mr W says the PPI was added without his knowledge and that he never takes out insurance 
on anything. I have considered this very carefully, together with Mr Ws response to our 
adjudicators view, when he said he wouldnt have understood what he was signing for. But I 
have to take into account that this all happened nearly 25 years ago. And I would not expect 
Mr and Mrs W to be able to remember what was discussed, what may have been 
recommended, and what they decided to do. Following the publicity about PPI mis-selling 
I'm not surprised that Mr and Mrs W believe they would never have taken it. But PPI can be 
useful a product in specific situations and just because they think now that they wouldn't 
have taken it, doesn't persuade me that they didn't agree to take it at the time.
Also I can see Mr W may have become confused with the critical illness insurance which 
seems to have also been discussed. It was this insurance that the advisor said he didnt 
need.
Overall, I think it more likely than not that Halifax made Mr and Mrs W aware that the PPI 
was optional and that they chose to take it.
Halifax cant say for sure if it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs W. In the 
circumstances, I think its fair that I consider this complaint to the higher standard of an 
advised sale.
It doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mrs W wasnt working so wasnt eligible for the policy. The policy was taken out in 
Mr Ws name only and I find that he was eligible for the policy given his circumstances 
and the terms and conditions.
Mr W told us he would have received six to 12 months pay from his employer if he 
couldnt work due to sickness or an accident and that he and Mrs W had some savings. 
The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim for 
accident or sickness in addition to his sick pay. It also covered him if hed become 
unemployed. The mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment and Mr and 
Mrs Ws home was at risk if they didnt keep up with the repayments. So I think the PPI 
could have been a useful benefit, in addition to Mr Ws existing arrangements.
Mr W wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Its not clear whether cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs W 
before they agreed to purchase it. Its possible they werent told it would cost £17.43 
each month until after the mortgage had started. For this reason I have considered 
whether clearer information about the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Ws decision 
to purchase the policy. I've found that theyd chosen to take out the policy and would 
have known they would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would have made a different 
decision if better information about the cost had been provided. 
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifaxs recommendation 
was unsuitable and I dont think Mr and Mrs W would have made a different decision about 
taking out the policy if better information had been provided to them  overall, I think they 
would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman