DRN-3389677
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
declined a claim under a commercial insurance policy for a storage unit.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W stored furniture from their home in a storage unit. The owner of the storage 
unit contacted Mr W and Mrs W to tell them the furniture had been damaged due to water 
entering the storage unit and needed to be moved to a dry storage container. 
Mr W and Mrs W made a claim under the storage unit insurance policy for their damaged 
items. RSA assessed the claim and declined it. RSA said the damage wasnt the result of 
one incident on one specific occasion. It also said the furniture had been placed in the 
storage container and had not been inspected over the following three years. It also 
highlighted a number of exclusions in the policy and said there was no visible sign of an 
insured peril. RSA said there was no cover under the terms of the policy.
Mr W and Mrs W contacted RSA to say the water had entered the container from an outside 
source, as the storage unit owner had drilled holes in the top of the storage container when 
fitting a walkway on top of the storage unit. RSA considered the new evidence and still 
maintained its decision to decline the claim, as it said there still wasn't evidence the damage 
was the result of one specific event. It said the damage to the furniture was consistent with 
mould from climate conditions caused by insufficient precautions to protect the furniture and 
an unventilated storage unit. The climate conditions over the previous three years had been 
perfect conditions for mould growth.
When Mr W and Mrs W complained, RSA maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, 
Mr W and Mrs W complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said it was likely the damage had been caused by 
water entering the container as a result of the storage unit owner drilling screws into the roof 
of the container. The policy said it excluded loss or damage caused by damp, mould, 
mildew or rust, unless caused by the negligence of the owner. Our investigator said RSA 
should settle the claim under the accidental damage part of the policy.
As RSA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 22 February 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
For a claim to be accepted, it needs to be the result of a one-off insured event covered by 
the policy. RSA has said the damage was most likely caused by climatic conditions within 
the container combined with the furniture not being wrapped and it being placed in the 
container in a way that didnt allow the air to circulate. Mr W and Mrs W have said the 
damage was the result of holes being drilled into the roof of the container by the storage unit 
owner as part of installing a walkway, combined with a storm.
In terms of what RSA thought was the likely cause, I think this was a credible explanation for 
why the damage happened. I think RSA has shown there were issues with how the items 
were stored and that climatic conditions could have caused mould to grow over time. If I 
accept that as the cause then the damage isnt the result of a one-off insured event and isnt 
covered by the policy. However, Mr W and Mrs W have disagreed with RSAs explanation 
and have said they think there was a different cause, so Ive also considered that.
Although the damage was found in June 2020, Mr W and Mrs W said they thought it was 
caused by a storm in September 2019, which the storage unit owner had later told them 
about. Ive looked at weather reports for the whole of September 2019 and didnt see wind 
speeds or rain that would be considered severe enough to be storm conditions. Im aware of 
what the storage unit owner described about a storm, but Im not persuaded there were 
storm conditions at this time, even if there was bad weather that caused concern. The policy 
doesnt cover bad weather.
Mr W and Mrs W have also said that if the damage wasnt the result of a storm, it should be 
dealt with as accidental damage. However, Im also mindful that the policy covered one-off 
insured events, rather than issues that happen over time.
I asked Mr W and Mrs W for more details of how they thought the damage occurred, which 
was the result of a combination of factors. They said the storage unit owner drilled holes into 
the unit. They didnt know when the holes were drilled but believed it was when a walkway 
was installed, which was before they hired the storage unit. So, this was at least three years 
before the damage was found. Mr W and Mrs W also said they thought the walkway screws 
then rusted away. But, screws rusting isnt an insured event. Its wear and tear, which 
insurance policies dont cover.
Mr W and Mrs W said they thought heavy rain then entered the unit in September 2019 
through the screw holes. They found the damage in June 2020. So, that meant about eight 
months had passed between the bad weather and them finding the damage. Mr W and Mrs 
W dont seem to have visited during that eight-month period and Im also aware that the 
items in the storage unit werent wrapped up in any way. 
If I accept that the water first entered in September 2019, Im not clear why it would only 
have done so on one occasion. If it happened more than once, the damage wasnt the result 
of a one-off event. The policy also required policyholders to take reasonable care to prevent 
damage, which I havent seen evidence of here. The lack of checks on the storage unit 
meant any damage was likely to go unnoticed for some time and that any damage was likely 
to be made worse due to the stored items not being protected. 
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont currently think it would be reasonable for me to 
say the damage was the result of an insured event. Mr W and Mrs Ws explanation for what 
they think happened required a number of events to have taken place over several years 
and for me to ignore both that the storage unit wasnt regularly checked and that the items 
werent protected within the unit. Im aware Mr W and Mrs W have also said the claim should 
be covered under the policy because of an exclusion about loss or damage caused by 
damp, mould, mildew or rust, unless caused by the negligence of the owner and they think 
the owner was negligent. But exclusions are only relevant if there is a one-off insured event 
in the first place and I havent currently seen evidence to show there was. As a result, I dont 
currently think the claim was covered by the policy and dont intend to require RSA to do 
anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 22 March 2022. Both parties replied before that date.RSA said it didnt have any comments.
Mr W and Mrs W disagreed with my provisional decision and provided a number of 
comments and supporting documents, which Ive summarised below:
They disagreed that what happened wasnt the result of a one-off insured event. They 
believed it was one specific occasion when the hole appeared in the roof of the container 
allowing water to ingress.
RSA had made false accusations about the storage of their contents and despite 
numerous attempts to correct this, RSA had disregarded this.
They visited several times over the three years but they didnt know the specific dates. 
They didnt keep a record and shouldnt have been expected to. It also wasnt a condition 
of the contract to do so. They definitely visited on the occasions they had to make 
payments. They had asked RSA to verify the visit dates with security site footage, but it 
hadnt been forthcoming.
RSA dismissed their new evidence without further consideration and, in their view, hadnt 
made reasonable efforts to investigate. When the new evidence of the water ingress was 
discovered by the owner, RSA was notified immediately. RSA had visited seven days 
before but declined to make a second visit and maintained its decision to decline the 
claim despite ample evidence to the contrary.
RSAs loss adjusters visit was a cursory glance. Had RSA revisited, it would have seen 
the specific damage from the event itself. The point of ingress was concealed and wasnt 
evident on the day. The storage owner had confirmed this in writing.
They agreed with our investigators findings that the claim should be settled under the 
accidental damage part of the policy. They didnt understand RSAs back-pedalling and 
excuses and why it had ignored the evidence the investigator made his judgement from.
If the damage was climatic over the three-year period this would have been evident 
when they visited in the previous two years. The damage only became evident in the 
third year following what they believed to be the event.
RSAs statement that the furniture had not been wrapped is false and there was no 
evidence to support this. Before the one occasion RSA visited, the furniture and 
belongings had been wrapped in dust sheets, bubble wrap and secure packing boxes. 
These had been removed before the visit. What the loss adjuster saw wasnt 
representative of how it had been stored the previous three years. The storage unit 
owner had given them the instructions for packing and storage, which they had followed. 
The items were also stacked in an orderly way with room for the air to circulate.
The storage companys website said the containers were dry and waterproof and 
suitable for the storage of complete house contents.
They provided photos as examples of how items were packed prior to the loss adjusters 
visit. On the day of the loss adjusters visit, most items were either in a different container 
or outside the container on the yard for the purpose of inspection. The inspection was a 
cursory glance with the wrong conclusion. The loss adjuster made assumptions and 
speculation without evidence.
They totally disagreed with the statement that RSA had shown there were issues with 
how items were stored. RSA had no evidence to support this and in the absence of that, 
it shouldnt be treated as a credible explanation. RSAs evidence could be credible if it 
had happened over the three years, but it hadnt. Despite what RSA had said, they 
visited the site several times over the period and there was no sign of damage for the 
first two years. It must have occurred within the third year.
They didnt believe the mould and mildew would have grown and spread without the 
ingress of water. There was no evidence these conditions would have existed without the 
ingress of water, which was the primary cause. The mould and mildew was the damage 
and should be covered by the policy.The damage occurred within the third year and was caused by the ingress of water 
through the screw holes in the roof suddenly allowing water to enter. It was the event 
and was a totally unexpected event.
They asked why if there was no damage to the roof there was a need to remove the 
insulated liner and carry out a repair.
The storage company owners had told them about the storm, which had caused two 
containers to leak. Mr W and Mrs W only speculated this might be linked while they were 
searching for a reason. They knew there was an unusually large amount of rain around 
that time and witnessed damage elsewhere in the locality. This would have allowed rain 
to cover the screw holes and enter the container. It wasnt just ongoing climatic 
conditions. The bad weather simply showed up the problems of the screw holes but 
didnt cause them. The cause was the holes being drilled in the first place.
They quoted some information from this services website related to accidental damage 
and said this was exactly the scenario that happened to their container. A hole in the 
ceiling liner would have to be caused by an external force. They believed the claim 
should be treated as accidental damage by external force.
They had insured against damage to their belongings, not the owners actions and the 
resulting problems. Had the screws not been drilled into the roof or the correct screws 
been used, the ingress of water wouldnt have happened. They didnt believe incorrectly 
drilling screws should be classed as fair wear and tear, but should be classed as an 
extraordinary event.
They said RSA had fabricated other information and made unsubstantiated statements. 
Mr W and Mrs W provided some related emails.
They asked why they would entrust the entire contents of their home to a unit not fit for 
purpose and not store or pack the items properly, not shut the door and not visit it.
In terms of reasonable care, they couldnt see anywhere in the policy that required them 
visit on a specific number of occasions. There was no factual evidence from RSA to 
prove they hadnt taken reasonable care.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ive carefully considered all the 
points Mr W and Mrs W have raised, but this hasnt caused me to change my decision. Im 
aware of Mr W and Mrs Ws strong views and their reasons for them and can assure them 
that Ive read and considered everything they provided, even if I dont comment on each 
point here.
As I explained in my provisional decision, for a claim to be accepted it needs to be the result 
of a one-off insured event. It is also for the policyholder to show a claim has been caused by 
an insured event, although insurers often investigate this on a policyholders behalf. 
I havent seen evidence to show the damage was the result of an event such as a one-off 
storm, as there werent conditions that would be considered to be a storm around the time 
Mr W and Mrs W thought water might have entered the container. However, Im aware Mr W 
and Mrs W have said they think it was accidental damage. But the accidental damage would 
still need to be the result of a one-off event, not a range of issues that happened over time. 
To be clear, Im not disputing there were holes in the roof of the container. The issue is that 
what Mr W and Mrs W have described involves a sequence of events over a period of years. 
So, holes being drilled into the container roof before Mr W and Mrs W rented the unit, screws 
being inserted into those holes, the screws rusting over time, rain then entering at an unknown time and on one or more occasions and mould and mildew then growing. That isnt 
a one-off event, so I dont think I can fairly say the damage was covered under the policy.
That doesnt mean that I then have to accept RSAs explanation of what happened, whether 
that is about the climatic conditions, how the items were stored or about reasonable care. 
Even setting all of that aside, there still needed to be a one-off insured event for the claim to 
be accepted under the policy and I havent seen evidence of that. So, I remain of the view 
that it was reasonable for RSA to decline the claim. As a result, I dont require RSA to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman