DRN-4261032
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd declined her claim for 
damage to her sofa. They said it wasnt caused by a single incident of accidental damage 
but had built up over time. She believes the sofa is faulty and wants them to deal with her 
claim.
What happened
Mrs M bought two leather sofas in 2020. She took out insurance with Fortegra to cover the 
sofas. The policy covers her for accidental staining, accidental damage, and structural faults.
In August 2022 Mrs M noticed that the leather on one of the headrests was starting to peel 
off and she submitted a claim to Fortegra. She told them nothing had happened to cause the 
problem. They sent a technician out to inspect the sofa and prepare a report on 26 
September 2022. 
The report says that there was peeling on one of the headrests, where a head would rest 
while the furniture was in use. That a leather diagnostic test was carried out, and when 
heated the leather was said to have given off a shampoo type smell, and to have felt oily-
greasy to touch. The report concluded that the damage was caused by normal wear over 
time from head oils etc causing the leather to peel.
Based on the report Fortegra declined Mrs Ms claim as they said her policy was designed to 
cover sudden and unforeseen damage occurring in a single incident of staining, accidental 
damage defined as sudden and unintentional damage and structural defects as shown in the 
coverage section on the front of her certificate. But the policy didnt cover any damage 
occurring over time, so they said her claim wasnt covered.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this. She told Fortegra that she didnt accept that shampoo would 
damage leather, that they couldnt explain the damage and were using shampoo as an 
excuse.
Fortegra didnt change their mind so Mrs M raised a complaint. Fortegra didnt uphold her 
complaint as they maintained that the damage had built up over time and so wasnt covered 
by her policy. They referred her to Section 4.4 of the policy which says, Your product is not 
covered for : deterioration of the products appearance through normal use or general soiling 
for example wear on high areas of traffic e.g. arm rest, or a build-up of oils on a headrest 
and so on.
Mrs M didnt accept what Fortegra had said. She replied to them on 24 November 2022 
saying that her husband normally uses the seat where the leather on the headrest was 
peeling. She told them that hes over 6 feet tall and when seated his head is above the 
headrest. She provided a photograph to illustrate this. She also said that he doesnt use any 
hair products, other than shampoo. 
She also said that shed reviewed her policy and noted that it covers peeling of leather 
under the heading Structural Faults. So she said there was a fault with the leather which 
was covered by her policy.
Fortegra werent prepared to review their decision not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint, so she 
complained to our service.
Our investigator considered the case but didnt uphold the complaint. She said she was 
persuaded by the engineers report that the damage to the sofa was due to wear and tear. 
And that the policy didnt cover Mrs M for deterioration of the sofa due to normal use. She 
said the policy covered Mrs M for sudden, unforeseen and unintentional damage resulting in 
rips, punctures, scuffs, burns, chips or scratches. But in light of the engineers findings this 
didnt apply.
Mrs M didnt accept our investigators opinion. Shes said that leather shouldnt delaminate 
after two years and if it did it wouldnt be used for furniture. She believes the leather was 
poor quality. Shes also said that peeling of leather is listed under the structural defects the 
policy covers, so her sofa should be covered. 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 June 2023. And in it I said: -
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms policy provides cover for accidental staining, accidental damage, and structural 
faults. For both accidental staining and damage its said the damage needs to be sudden, 
unforeseen, and unintentional. Peeling of leather is specifically stated to be covered under 
structural faults.
Section 4 of the policy terms and conditions sets out a list of whats not covered. 4.4 states 
Deterioration of the products appearance through normal use or general soiling, for 
example wear on high traffic areas (e.g. arm rest), or a build-up of oils on a 
headrest/headboard, or dye transfer over an extended period of time. 
This is the exclusion Fortegra have used to decline Mrs Ms claim. In declining the claim 
theyre relied on the report from their engineer who says he carried out a leather diagnostic 
test and there was a shampoo type smell for the leather when heated and it also felt oily-
greasy to touch.
No details of how the test was carried out are given, although due to the engineers 
comments we can assume it involved heating the leather in some way. And based on his 
findings we know the engineer said the damage was caused by head oils.
But I also have to consider what Mrs M has told us and what the policy says about cover for 
structural damage.
Mrs M has told us, and I accept, that her husband is the one who normally sits in the seat 
where the headrest is damaged. Shes provided a photograph that shows his head above 
the headrest, not leaning against it. And shes said theres no damage to any other headrest, 
including that on the seat she normally uses, even though shes shorter than her husband so 
her head rests against the headrest. 
I find her evidence more persuasive than an undefined diagnostic test. So Im not persuaded 
that the damage was caused by a build-up of hair oils over time. And I think Mrs Ms claim 
should be covered under the structural damage section of the policy which specifically states 
the policy covers peeling of leather. Mrs M has said she wants the sofa replaced as she doesnt think a repair will match the 
sofa. Im not surprised shes said this, as shes told us the engineer said he didnt think a 
repair would be successful. But the policy provides for the damaged item to be repaired, and 
only if it cant be satisfactorily repaired will Fortegra replace it. So I think Fortegra need to be 
given the opportunity to repair the damaged headrest before they need to consider providing 
a replacement.
In dealing with Mrs Ms claim I dont think Fortegra have considered the evidence shes 
provided and this has delayed the resolution of her claim. As a result of this shes suffered 
distress and inconvenience for which I think she should be compensated. And taking 
everything into account I think the appropriate level of compensation is £150.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mrs Ms complaint.
Mrs M has confirmed that she accepts my provisional decision. Fortegra havent responded 
and the deadline given to the parties to do this has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs M has indicated that she accepts my provisional decision and Fortegra havent 
responded, I dont see any reason to review my findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision my final decision is that I 
uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd.
And to put things right I require them to arrange to repair her damaged sofa, and if this isnt 
possible to provide a replacement in line with her policy terms and conditions. And to pay her 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of how theyve handled 
her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman