DRN-3129034
The complaint
Miss C and Mr H have complained about a secured loan they took out with Black Horse 
Limited (BHL) in 2007. They are unhappy that the loan has been sold to a third party and 
about the amount still left to pay on the loan.
To settle the complaint, Miss C and Mr H want BHL to refund to them the difference between 
the £29,000 they borrowed and the £34,000 theyve paid and to advise the third party that no 
debt exists.
The complaint has been dealt with throughout by Mr H.
What happened
On 25 January 2007 Miss C and Mr H took out a secured loan with BHL. They borrowed 
£29,000 over a term of ten years. If all payments were made in full and on time, theyd have 
paid back £53,956.20 by the end date of the loan in January 2017.
Unfortunately, Miss C and Mr H fell into financial difficulty and payments were missed. As a 
result, fees were added to the account. In line with industry practice, interest was 
suppressed but remained due and payable in line with the terms and conditions of the loan 
agreement. Between April 2012 and June 2014 no further interest was added to the loan.
On 17 July 2014 the loan was transferred to a third party, H. It has since been transferred to 
another business, M.
In November 2014 Mr H raised a complaint about fees added to the account. BHL agreed to 
remove fees of £985 from the account and asked the new account holder to action this. 
In 2019 Mr H contacted BHL again. He was unhappy that solicitors acting for M were 
claiming there was still an outstanding debt of over £20,000. In its final response letter, BHL 
explained that it had sold the debt in July 2014 and that, after Mr H had complained about 
fees on the account in November 2014, that these had been reimbursed. BHL said Mr H 
would need to speak to the current owner of the loan about any other concerns he might 
have.
Dissatisfied with BHLs response, Miss C and Mr H brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Mr H said that payments of £34,000 were made over the lifetime of 
the loan. He said the term expired in January 2017 and so the loan no longer exists. Mr H 
thought BHL should pay back the difference between the £34,000 paid towards the loan and 
the £29,000 he and Miss C had borrowed.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In a detailed 
letter dated 19 October 2021, she set out the history of the loan and explained where BHL 
had refunded fees. She was satisfied the terms of the agreement allowed BHL to sell the 
loan to a third party.
The investigator also explained that the amount payable under the loan agreement was 
£53,965.20, but because payments hadnt always been made in full or on time, this balance 
didnt reduce as it should have done. The investigator was satisfied that the balance 
transferred to H in July 2014 was correct, based on the payment history.
Mr H didnt agree, and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. Although he said hed provide 
further arguments to show why he thought BHL was in the wrong, no further evidence or 
arguments have been provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I will explain that I can only look at whats happened on this account up to 17 July 
2014, which is the date BHL transferred the loan to H. The terms and conditions allow BHL 
to do transfer the loan.
The loan agreement provided for payments of £53,965.20 and if interest had not been 
suppressed between April 2012 and July 2014, the outstanding balance at the point the loan 
was transferred to H would have been £26,232.30. But Ive looked at the payment history, 
and Im satisfied that the amount transferred to H (£22,587) is correct, taking into account 
the suppressed interest that was not added to the loan by BHL.
In November 2014, after Mr H complained about fees added to the account, BHL asked H to 
remove all fees charged on the account. So there is no further fee refund due from BHL.
Miss C and Mr H believe that, having made payments that exceed the £29,000 they 
borrowed, they have nothing further to pay; indeed, they want all payments in excess of 
£29,000 reimbursed. I can find no basis on which BHL is required to make any 
reimbursement to Miss C and Mr H. They did not make all payments due to BHL during the 
period BHL owned the loan.  If they dispute the amount they owe, thats something Miss C 
and Mr H will need to take up with the current owner of the loan.
If Miss C and Mr H are experiencing financial difficulty, they might find it helpful to speak to 
one of the free debt advisory services, such as Citizens Advice, StepChange or Shelter. We 
can provide them with contact details for those organisations, if theyd like us to.
My final decision
I know Miss C and Mr H will be disappointed, but my decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman