DRN-2289415
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 2006. 
Miss S says Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include the PPI 
policy benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all 
of this information here. The policy was cover for accident and sickness only.
Miss S was employed at the time of sale, had been there over eight years and was entitled 
to work sick pay. She didnt have any savings or other insurance to help pay the mortgage if 
accident or sickness stopped her working for a longer time.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss Ss representatives disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ss. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ss 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Yorkshire made it clear Miss S didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take 
it. I say this because Miss S hasnt said anything to make me think this wasnt made 
clear. Also, to apply for the PPI, Miss S signed a separate PPI application form - so she 
agreed to apply for cover and Ive seen nothing to suggest she had to. Also, I think the 
use of a separate application form for the PPI tended to indicate the PPI was separate 
from the mortgage and something about which Miss S had a separate choice to make.
Yorkshire recommended the PPI to Miss S, so it had to check the PPI was right for her. 
And the evidence about her circumstances at the time shows it wasnt unsuitable for her. 
For example, she was eligible for it and although she had work sick pay I think the PPI 
benefit wouldve been useful to her if she were off work for longer than her full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. So I think she had a need for cover. Miss S couldnt claim for time off if 
related to a health issue she knew of at the start - but the only issue shes told us of was 
treated more than 20 years earlier and I dont think Yorkshire ought to have thought this 
so likely to keep her off work that its exclusion made the cover no longer worthwhile or 
wrong to recommend to Miss S. Ive nothing to suggest there were any extra restrictions 
on cover for mental health or back problems either. Also I dont think the cover was 
unaffordable.
Its possible the information Yorkshire gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it and her application form showed the monthly 
benefit and that accident and sickness cover had been selected with a 60 day excess 
period, and called the cover Mortgage Payment Insurance - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. It wasnt unsuitable for Miss S, as I concluded above, and it seems like 
it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong in the circumstances it covered. 
Also I think it unlikely Miss S wouldve agreed to cover without at least a broad idea of 
the likely cost. Overall I dont think the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely Miss S 
thought she was buying from the information its likely she was given  and, with this and 
all Ive said above in mind, I dont think she wouldve declined it had Yorkshire done 
more in terms of the information it provided.
Overall, I consider that Miss S wouldve still taken PPI. I think it couldve provided a useful 
benefit at a difficult time if she couldnt work in the circumstances it covered. I also think it 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. In those circumstances, 
I think she wouldve taken it in any event.
Miss Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Yorkshire should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
Miss Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Im grateful to Miss S for her courtesy throughout our consideration of this matter. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Richard SheridanOmbudsman