DRN-3553706
The complaint
Mr K complains about the advice given by NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ks employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension 
schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The 
compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits 
for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. 
Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a 
private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ks employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
Mr K was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so he sought advice and met with NTM in August 2017.
NTM recorded some information about Mr Ks circumstances. It noted that he was 53, 
divorced with two children, one of whom was still financially dependent. Mr K was employed 
earning approximately £34,000. He was living with his partner but didnt own any property. 
He had savings of around £41,000 and an outstanding credit card balance of around £1,700. 
Mr Ks income exceeded his outgoings with NTMs notes saying he had £1,400 surplus 
disposable income per month. NTM also carried out an assessment of Mr Ks attitude to risk, 
which it deemed was low.
On 18 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr K with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £454,812.70.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
NTM issued a revised letter summarising its recommendation (a suitability report) on 
3 November 2017 following the revised CETV. This said Mr K wanted to retire no later than 
58, but as close to 55 as possible. He wanted an income of £2,000 a month in retirement 
and his priority was to have this income earlier while he was able to trave,l which is what he 
planned to do in retirement. He was attracted to the flexibility a personal pension provided 
and the ability to control his income and decide how and when he took his benefits. Because 
he wasnt married, he had no need for the spouses pension and he wanted his loved ones 
to benefit from his pension after his death.
NTM recommended that Mr K transfer his pension as it would provide him with flexibility and 
the control he desired to vary his income; to provide a higher level of tax-free cash; to 
provide greater lump sum death benefits; and to address his concerns about the changes to 
the BSPS by meeting his objective of wanting to break all ties with his employer. NTM 
recommended a pension provider and investment fund that it said was in line with his 
attitude to risk.
Mr K complained to NTM in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. In essence he 
didnt think the advice to give up a guaranteed pension income was suitable for him. 
NTM didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. In addition to setting out a timeline of the events leading 
up to the time to choose exercise, Mr Ks interactions with NTM and his objectives at the 
time, in summary it said it was unable to find any indication that the adviser failed to cover all 
the options available to Mr K. It said the recommendation met his stated objectives and the 
risks associated with the recommendation were fully covered in line with the regulators 
expectations. It said alternative approaches were discounted and Mr K was given time to 
consider the advice prior to agreeing to transfer. It said Mr K had accessed some of his tax-
free cash and deferred taking income, which couldnt have been achieved without flexible 
access to benefits. It said overall its advice to transfer was suitable.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr K referred his complaint to us and one our Investigators 
looked into the complaint. They upheld the complaint because they concluded the advice 
was unsuitable as Mr K wasnt likely to improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed 
by transferring. And they said there were no other compelling reasons to justify the transfer  
for example Mr K didnt have to transfer to retire early, greater or different death benefits 
wasnt a suitable reason to transfer and his concerns about the scheme couldve been better 
managed instead of recommending he transfer. They said if suitable advice had been given, 
Mr K wouldve likely remained in the DB scheme and chosen to join the BSPS2.
NTM said that, while it didnt agree the advice was unsuitable, in the interests of resolving 
things it had carried out a loss calculation. And the calculation showed Mr K had not suffered 
a loss, so it said there was no redress to pay.
Mr K nevertheless asked for his complaint to be resolved by an Ombudsman. So the 
complaint was referred to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ks 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that NTM was required to carry out by 
the regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Ks pension fund would need 
to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
in excess of 50% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the 
scheme at age 55 (the earliest age Mr K indicated he wanted to retire.) Or to match 
the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would provide at that 
age, was 32.99%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 55 the 
critical yield was 20.87% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension the 
PPF wouldve offered, it was 18.12%.
Despite the fact it was known by the point NTM instructed the TVAS that continuing 
in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr K, the analysis was based on 
the BSPS benefits. And while I can see NTM did acknowledge this in a file note and 
said that the critical yields based on the benefits under the BSPS2 would been lower, 
I think it wouldve been helpful if it had produced the analysis using the BSPS2 
benefits to show the precise critical yields.
In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to 
match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 55 were likely to be 
between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
Given Mr K indicated that, while 55 was his ideal retirement age 58 was more likely, 
I also think NTM shouldve produced critical yield figures based on a retirement age of 58. I think this wouldve been more meaningful and relevant to Mr K and wouldve 
put him a properly informed position.
Given Mr Ks recorded low attitude to risk, the discount rate of 2.5% for one year to 
retirement and the regulators lower projection rate, I think Mr K was always likely to 
receive pension benefits, from age 55, of a lower value that those hed have been 
entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing in line with that 
attitude to risk. To have come anywhere close to achieving the returns needed 
wouldve required Mr K to take on a significant level of risk  far greater than he 
indicated he was prepared to take. Indeed, NTM said as much in its suitability report. 
And I dont think the position wouldve been any different based on a retirement age 
of 58  I think the critical yields wouldve still been significantly above the regulators 
lower projection rate
For this reason alone, I dont think a transfer to a personal pension arrangement was 
in Mr Ks best interests.
NTM recorded that Mr K wanted to retire as close to 55 as possible but no later than 
58. And it said that a personal pension would provide control and flexibility so he 
could vary his income at the beginning of his retirement and take lump sums. At 53 
Mr K had no doubt given his retirement some thought  albeit Im not persuaded his 
retirement age was set in stone given his retirement appears to have been contingent 
on the level of financial support his son needed whilst in further education. 
But, Mr K didnt have to transfer his pension to retire early - he already had this 
option available to him. I accept he couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. But 
Im not persuaded Mr K had a strong need to vary his income throughout retirement. 
NTM referred to Mr K being able to take a higher income at the beginning of his 
retirement. But it strikes me this was simply a feature of transferring to a personal 
pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Ks. And as I will refer to 
later on, NTM didnt carry out any analysis to demonstrate that taking a higher level 
of income from his pension was feasible or sustainable by transferring.
NTM said Mr K was keen to access his tax-free cash lump sum at 55 and defer 
taking an income. It said he wanted to use this for discretionary spending  for 
example taking holidays, giving money to his partner for home improvements and 
supporting his son. But I dont think NTM shouldve encouraged Mr K to access his 
pension benefits early for this reason. The reasons Mr K gave were not in my view 
compelling reasons. Mr K had accumulated savings, he had significant surplus 
income and his capacity for borrowing the money he needed for these things was 
strong. So I think these were reasonable alternatives NTM shouldve pointed out first 
before recommending he transfer his guaranteed benefits to achieve things.
NTM also said Mr K wanted access to a higher tax-free cash lump sum. But it didnt 
say why this was needed. And it didnt quantify Mr Ks capital expenditure needs to 
demonstrate that the only way he could achieve things was by transferring. So I dont 
think it was in Mr Ks best interests to transfer for flexibility.
Mr K wanted an income of £2,000 a month in retirement. But NTM didnt carry out a 
detailed income and expenditure in retirement analysis to interrogate this figure and 
determine if this was what Mr K truly needed. It strikes me he gave this figure 
because this was broadly the amount he was currently spending each month. And it 
appears NTM just accepted what he said.I dont think this was a realistic target income based on a retirement age of 55  58. 
Mr Ks DB scheme full pension at 65 was around £23,634 a year and less if he chose 
to take a cash lump sum. I think NTM shouldve managed Mr Ks expectations and 
been honest with him that this wasnt going to be achievable based on his target 
retirement date. Had it done so, this wouldve allowed Mr K to reconsider his plans. 
And just because his DB scheme couldnt meet this target amount, I dont think it was 
in Mr Ks best interests to transfer out, particularly when NTM didnt demonstrate to 
him that he could sustainably meet his target income from age 55-58 by transferring 
to a personal pension. All the cashflow modelling it carried out was based on taking 
the same level of income the DB scheme would provide  not £2,000 a month.
I think Mr Ks current income and expenditure suggested his retirement income need 
would be far less than £2,000 a month  his disposable income while working was 
£1,400 a month. So, in the circumstances I think Mr K stood a better chance of 
meeting his needs by remaining in his DB scheme. It provided a guaranteed and 
escalating income for life, which wasnt going to be bettered by transferring. I think 
this was a more appropriate way for Mr K to meet his future retirement income needs 
rather than risking his guaranteed benefits to attempt to do so.
NTM recorded that because Mr K wasnt married, the spouses pension wouldnt be 
payable and so he wanted the flexibility of death benefits offered by a personal 
pension. But the priority here was to advise Mr K about what was best for his 
retirement. I accept the existing scheme didnt provide death benefits to unmarried 
partners  but its possible that Mr K might get married in the future, in which case 
the spouses pension couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
In any event, while the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a 
potential lump sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always 
likely to be different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it 
wouldve also been reduced by the income Mr K drew in his lifetime. And so it may 
not have provided the legacy that Mr K may have thought it would. 
If Mr K had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, NTM couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. Reference was made to a whole of life policy for a sum 
assured for the amount of the transfer value, which was discounted on cost  in 
excess of £500 a month. But I dont think this was a fair and balanced way to present 
this option to Mr K. It shouldve been based on what amount he wanted to leave to 
his family instead. Afterall, Mr K wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension 
upon his death, which was likely to be a lot lower than the original transfer value 
amount. And this couldve been considered on a whole of life or term assurance 
basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence NTM did so.  
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr K. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately NTM should not have encouraged 
Mr K to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement. 
Mr K may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF and that he wanted to break all ties 
with them. But it was NTMs role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of 
the advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the 
PPF still provided Mr K with guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free 
cash. Mr K was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought. Also, Mr K wasnt going to break 
ties with his employer by transferring because he was connected to them in other 
ways  he intended to continue his employment and he was contributing to the new 
workplace pension scheme. So, I dont think any concerns he held about this meant 
that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ks best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time, particularly when he 
had the option of opting into the BSPS2. And I also havent seen anything to persuade me 
that Mr K wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme. It 
was recorded that he was an inexperienced investor and I dont think he had the requisite 
knowledge, confidence or skill to go against the advice he was given. Indeed it was recorded 
that he would seek expert advice when decisions needed to be made. 
So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr K received from NTM was 
unsuitable for him.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £250 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr K. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
NTM  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr K. Taking everything into account, including that I consider 
Mr K is now at the age when his retirement provision is of even greater importance to him 
and hes worried that hell lose out in retirement, I think the unsuitable advice has caused 
him some distress. So I think an award of £250 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for NTM to put Mr K, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr K would most likely 
have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. I think because Mr Ks early retirement plans werent concrete, Im 
not persuaded he wouldve opted for the PPF and accepted the risk that the reduction in 
benefits might not be offset by the more favourable terms for very early retirement.
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
NTM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr K and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what NTM based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, while Mr K accessed his tax-free cash, he has not yet retired or started drawing 
an income benefit, and he has no concrete plans to do so at present. 
So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age (65), as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ks 
acceptance of my final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, NTM should:
calculate and offer Mr K redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr K before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr K receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr K accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr K for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ks end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr K as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, NTM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ks likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr K the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
NTM Financial Services Ltd should also pay Mr K £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr K the balance.
If Mr K accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr K can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr K may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman