DRN-4156703
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs Ss complaint arises from a mortgage application made to Barclays Bank UK 
Plc. They say that Barclays unfairly rejected their mortgage application. 
As a result, Mr M and Mrs S werent able to buy the property and say that because property 
prices and interest rates surged dramatically, they are now out of pocket. They feel theyve 
been discriminated against by Barclays because of this.
What happened
I do not need to set out the entire background to the complaint. There are several reasons 
for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, and in the 
case file, so there is no need for me to repeat all the details here. 
I also note that Barclays has acknowledged it could have done things better and has offered 
compensation. So I dont need to analyse everything thats happened to decide if the bank is 
at fault or not; all I need to decide is what Barclays needs to do to put things right. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr M and Mrs S being identified. So for these reasons, I will instead 
concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision.
In early 2022 Mr M and Mrs S wanted to purchase a property. I will call this property 7 HP. 
They applied for a mortgage with Barclays. Mr M and Mrs S were represented by an 
independent financial adviser (IFA) at all times throughout this and their second mortgage 
application. 
7HP was subject to a rentcharge. A rentcharge (or chief rent as it can also be known) was, 
prior to the Rentcharges Act 1977, a method used for builders to build developments on land 
that they did not own without paying the landowner or by paying the landowner a reduced 
price for the land.  The landowner would either sell the land at a reduced rate or would 
permit the development on the land and, in return, would take an income from each of 
homeowners that had purchased the properties constructed. 
The rentcharge is generally a nominal sum, usually just a few pounds, collected annually. It 
should not be confused with ground rent payable on a leasehold property, or with service 
charges collected by the managing agents. However, if it is unpaid, the rentcharge owner is 
entitled to take possession of the land. 
It is therefore important for a mortgage lender to ensure that its position is protected in 
relation to lending on a property that is subject to a rentcharge. Although rentcharges in the 
UK are generally historic, there are many areas, particularly in the north of England, where 
rentcharges still apply.
Barclays issued a mortgage offer on 7HP on 23 February 2022. It was for a capital 
repayment loan of £210,999 over a term of 17 years at an initial fixed rate of 1.75% from the 
date of completion to 31 May 2024. The product code for this was HQ35.
After the mortgage offer was issued, Mr M and Mrs Ss solicitors advised Barclays about the 
rentcharge on 7HP in April 2022. The bank replied:
 we wont be able to proceed with the case until the rentcharge is 
removed/revoked. Alternatively we will be happy to proceed provided any one of our 
requirements are met in the UK Finance Lenders Handbook under section 5.15.2a. 
We do not accept Indemnity on such rentcharges
The solicitors contacted Barclays on 6 May 2022 again about this and the bank responded 
on 12 May 2022:
 as long as you are confident that [original landowner] no longer exists and no 
claims can be made, we rely on you and we are happy to proceed provided there is 
no impact to our security
However, the purchase didnt proceed. Mr M and Mrs S hold Barclays responsible for this.
On 20 June 2022 Barclays system records a change of loan amount. There was a further 
change of loan amount on 25 July 2022. 
On 26 July 2022 Barclays was advised that the property address was being changed to 
another property, 1 HC, for a price of £320,000. The product code was also changed to JK70 
and the term extended to 25 years. All of this would have been at the request of Mr M and 
Mrs Ss IFA. The mortgage application was amended accordingly on Barclays system. 
In July 2022 Mr M and Mrs S raised a complaint with our service.
On 4 August 2022, when the valuer tried to arrange the survey he was told I have been 
informed by the owners of this property that [Mr M and Mrs S] are no longer buying the 
property. I have tried to ring them but their phones are off. Please advise? . 
Barclays notes show that they informed Mr M and Mrs Ss IFA about this.
On 14 August 2022 the IFA asked the bank to change the loan amount, deposit amount, 
mortgage term and property address. However, the IFA was informed that the previous 
application had been submitted on 11 February 2022 and was valid for six months. It had 
therefore expired, and a new application would be required. 
On 16 August 2022 Mr M and Mrs S queried with Barclays why their application had been 
rejected. Barclays internal notes show that the application hadnt been rejected, but had 
been closed as it was more than six months old and so the offer had expired.
A new application was begun for the purchase of another property. However, as the previous 
mortgage offer had expired, Mr M and Mrs H had to apply for a new product. The property 
they were buying I will call 22CD. Barclays issued a mortgage offer on 5 September 2022. 
This was on a two-year fixed rate of 3.49%. over a term of 29 years, for a loan amount of 
£298,800.
This property too was subject to a rentcharge, and on 6 October 2022 the same letter was 
sent to the solicitors as was sent in May 2022 setting out the banks requirements 
concerning the rentcharge.There was no further contact from solicitors or broker until 13 December 2022, when there 
was a request to change the solicitors details. The transaction proceeded after that and I 
understand the purchase and mortgage completed in January 2023.
Mr M and Mrs S say that, because of discrimination by Barclays, they werent able to go 
ahead with the purchase of 7HP on the lower interest rate. Barclays accepted its 
communication could have been better in explaining that the first application had expired, 
and acknowledged this had caused Mr M and Mrs S some upset. Barclays said it would pay 
£150 compensation.
An investigator looked at what had happened. She thought the bank could have avoided 
causing stress to Mr M and Mrs S by communicating with them more clearly, and that this 
had led them to believe theyd been treated unfairly. The investigator recommended 
Barclays should pay compensation of £250, which the bank agreed to do.
Mr M and Mrs S didnt agree, however. They said theyd lost 7HP without any explanation 
whatsoever from Barclays, and they kept wondering why the application was rejected, with 
no reply from the bank. 
They say theyve spoken to other landlords who own properties in CD  the street where 
Mr M and Mrs S ultimately purchased their property  and those landlords have mortgages 
with Barclays. 
Therefore, according to Mr M and Mrs S, if Barclays rejected the mortgage application on 
7HP with a 1.7% interest rate but approved the mortgage on 22CD with a much higher 
interest rate, this can only amount to discrimination.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to note that at all times in both mortgage transactions Mr M and Mrs S were 
represented by their own IFA. The applications were therefore submitted via the IFA, not 
directly between Mr M and Mrs S and Barclays. It would be up to the IFA and the solicitors 
acting on the purchase and mortgage to chase Barclays for updates, and to submit 
information required by the bank.
Im satisfied that Barclays explained to the solicitors that it was happy to proceed with the 
mortgage on 7HP, after confirmation was received about the historic nature of the 
rentcharge. The evidence, therefore, doesnt persuade me that it was as a result of the 
rentcharge, or any other act or omission on the part of Barclays, that the purchase of 7HP 
didnt go ahead. There are many reasons why purchases dont go ahead, but I cant see in 
this case that Barclays is responsible for the purchase of 7PH not proceeding.
I see that in July 2022 Mr M and Mrs S decided to buy another property, 1HC, but didnt 
proceed with this. I cant hold Barclays responsible for this either, because this didnt 
proceed to the point where a mortgage offer was issued; the valuer was told by the sellers 
that Mr M and Mrs S had changed their minds about buying it.Its unfortunate that by the time Mr M and Mrs S found 22CD both purchase prices and 
interest rates had gone up. Barclays has no influence over fluctuations in the property 
market, and the interest rates it offers to customers in order to remain competitive is up to 
the banks own commercial judgement as part of its business operations. But neither of 
those things amount to discrimination against Mr M and Mrs S. 
It was up to Mr M and Mrs Ss IFA to explain to them that their mortgage offer would expire 
after six months. I wouldnt have expected Barclays to have had direct contact with Mr M and 
Mrs S about this. However, once Mr M contacted Barclays, questioning why his application 
had been rejected, I think the bank should have explained the situation to him. I can see 
that this caused Mr M and Mrs S some stress. they mistakenly believed  that their application 
had been rejected, and Mr M was becoming increasingly agitated about the situation.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that Barclays could have explained more clearly to Mr M and 
Mrs S that the mortgage offer issued in February 2022 expired in August 2022. I can see this 
caused Mr M and Mrs S some anguish, and led them to believe  mistakenly  that their 
mortgage application had been rejected. I think a payment of £250 for distress and 
inconvenience is proportionate, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc must pay Mr M and Mrs S £250 compensation. I 
make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman