DRN-1611443
The complaint
Ms A complains about the allocation of refunds to her account with Home Retail Card 
Services Limited (trading as Argos). Shes also unhappy about late payment markers placed 
on her credit file.
What happened
Ms A held a credit account with Argos. In June 2018 she purchased  an item on Buy Now 
Pay Later (BNPL) terms. The BNPL period was due to expire in October 2018.
In July 2019 Ms A returned the item. A refund was applied to her account.
Ms A is unhappy about how this refund  and other refunds  have been allocated because 
they werent credited to the part of the account they were purchased on. Ms A missed some 
payments on her account and is unhappy that late payment markers have been recorded on 
her cred file because she says she was told that the account would be frozen.
In response to Ms As complaint, Argos said the terms and condition of the account allowed 
it to apply the refund to the balance that was due to incur the most interest.
Ms A wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. She doesnt think its 
fair that an item on a 3 month BNPL should be refunded to a 6 month BNPL. She also says 
she wasnt told that she needed to tell Argos which part of her account she wanted refunds 
allocated to.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and said Ms A had been provided with clear 
information about the account when she opened it, including the terms and conditions of 
BNPL and of Argoss right to allocate payments. The investigator found no evidence of an 
agreement to freeze the account.
Ms A didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Ms As account and Ive also looked at her 
statements. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Ms A was provided with an 
opportunity to read the terms and conditions when she opened the account. These say that 
deferred interest will be charged on BNPL items if the cash price isnt paid in full before the 
expiry of the BNPL period. They also say that late payment fees can be charged if payments 
are missed.
In Ms As case, I can see that she didnt pay the BNPL balance before the expiry of the 
BNPL period. She also missed 3 payments. I dont think Argos acted unfairly by adding the 
deferred interest and late payment fees to the account, because this is in line with the terms 
and conditions.
Ms A has said that she doesnt think it was fair for Argos to allocate the refunds to a different 
BNPL plan to the one she originally purchased the item on. The terms and conditions of the 
agreement say that Argos can choose how to allocate payments. So, its up to Argos if it 
chooses to apply a refund to reduce or clear a balance on a BNPL plan which isnt the same 
BNPL plan as the item was purchased on. Because of this. I dont think Argos has done 
anything wrong here.
Ms A has made the point that she didnt know she needed to ask Argos if she wanted a 
refund allocated to a particular BNPL plan. The terms and conditions say that Argos can 
allocate a payment (or refund) in a particular way if a customer requests this. So I think this 
information was available to Ms A and she could have asked Argos to allocate the refund to 
whichever plan she wanted.
Finally, Ive considered whether there was an agreement to freeze the account and whether 
Argos acted fairly in recording late payment markers on Ms As credit file. Ive listened to the 
calls between Ms A and Argos but theres nothing to suggest that there was an agreement to 
freeze the account. To the contrary, in one of the calls Argos advised Ms A to maintain 
payments to the account. Because of this, Im unable to say that Argos acted unfairly in 
applying late payment fees to the account or in recording late payment markers on Ms As 
credit file.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Argos has acted unfairly or unreasonably so I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman