DRN-2404022
The complaint
Mrs J has a Thomas Cook payment card, issued by Wirecard Card Solutions Limited. She 
complains that the card was suspended during her trip to another country. She said this left 
her without access to money and would like compensation.
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs S travelled to another country. She purchased a prepaid Thomas Cook 
Mastercard to take with her which she used successfully for around 40 days. 
On 3 May 2019, Mrs S tried to purchase a tourist tour using her Thomas Cook card, but it 
was declined. Mrs S found out the card had been suspended due to suspicious activity. 
Wirecard and Thomas Cook explained that a transaction made to a third party company for 
approximately $40 AUD was flagged by their Fraud and Risk Team and therefore needed 
cardholder verification. 
Thomas Cook emailed Mrs S using the contact details they held for her to let her know 
theyd tried to get in touch with her. Mrs S didnt have access to her UK mobile phone during 
her trip and therefore Thomas Cook wasnt able to reach her. On 5 May 2019 Mrs S sent an 
email with her temporary contact number. This email was sent from Mrs Ss personal email 
address to herself. As no successful contact was made between Mrs S and Thomas Cook or 
Wirecard  the card remained suspended.
Mrs S said she didnt have any access to money  and she contacted the British Consulate 
on 6 May 2019 who gave her money for food and taxi journeys so she could get to the 
airport for her flight home. Mrs S returned to England on 13 May 2019 and successfully 
withdrew the outstanding balance on the Thomas Cook card on 14 May 2019.
The investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. She said that while she recognised the 
difficulties Mrs S would have faced, she hadnt seen any evidence to show Wirecard was 
sent the relevant contact details for Mrs S. So, she couldnt fairly say they should have done 
anything differently.
Mrs S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Wirecard to do anything. I know this will disappoint 
Mrs S so Ive explained my reasons further below.
Wirecard have explained that a transaction made using Mrs Ss Thomas Cook card flagged 
with their Fraud and Risk team as suspicious. Because of this, Wirecard had to verify the 
transaction by cardholder verification. Based on this, Im pleased to see Wirecard took the 
actions to suspend Mrs Ss Thomas Cook card when they did. Im satisfied this was a 
protective measure to avoid any unauthorised or fraudulent transactions being made using 
Mrs Ss Thomas Cook card.
The investigator helpfully shared the terms and conditions Wirecard relied on when 
suspending Mrs Ss card. Ive reviewed the terms and Im satisfied they acted appropriately 
in the circumstances.
I recognise and appreciate the inconvenience the suspension of the card caused Mrs S  
and in turn this made the remainder of her trip very difficult as she had no access to money. 
However, Wirecard have a duty to protect their customers, and based on the evidence Ive 
received Im satisfied Wirecard had enough information to take the action they did by 
suspending the card.
Ive seen the contact notes which show the Thomas Cook representative, on behalf of 
Wirecard, attempted to contact Mrs S on a few occasions using the contact details they had 
on file for Mrs S. Mrs S confirmed she did receive an email from Thomas Cook  but she 
didnt receive the telephone calls as she didnt have the phone shed registered with her 
Thomas Cook card with her while on her travels. Ive seen an email sent from Mrs Ss 
personal email including her up to date contact details. It seems this email was sent from 
Mrs S to Mrs S directly. Ive concluded that I think it was more likely than not this email was 
intended to be sent to Thomas Cook so they had Mrs Ss up to date details to be able to talk 
to her regarding the transaction. However, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Thomas Cook didnt receive this email and therefore had no way to contact Mrs S by 
telephone while she was on her travels.
Ive noted that Mrs S visited the British Consulate a few days after her card was blocked. 
The British Consulate supplied Mrs S with money for food and to allow her to pay for a taxi to 
the airport so she could catch her flight home. Im pleased to see Mrs S received this help. 
Overall, I dont doubt this would have been a really distressing time for Mrs S and I 
recognise the difficulties she would have faced for the final days of her trip due to not having 
access to her money. However, for me to fairly uphold Mrs Ss complaint, Id need to be 
satisfied Wirecard acted unreasonably. I dont think they did. A suspicious transaction was 
flagged, and they took the appropriate actions to protect Mrs Ss money while they 
investigated it. As part of those investigations, Wirecard needed to speak to Mrs S but they 
couldnt do that as they didnt have her up to date contact details. Im satisfied Wirecard 
attempted to contact Mrs S and gave her alternative details to contact them  but that 
contact wasnt made. Therefore, the card remained suspended. Im satisfied Wirecard acted 
fairly and therefore I wont be asking them to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman