DRN-3224057
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs M have complained about the poor service and delay from Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited when they made a claim under their home and buildings 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In April 2021 Mr B and Mrs M made a claim to their insurer, Lloyds. Damage had been 
caused to their home by a third party vehicle. 
Mr B and Mrs M complained to Lloyds. They were very unhappy with the lack of updates on 
their claim and that Lloyds had failed to appoint a structural engineer and instead appointed 
a builder to assess the damage. 
Mr B and Mrs M were staying in temporary hotel accommodation in a family room with their 
teenage son during this time. They said Lloyds had caused a delay of between three and 
four weeks by not appointing a structural engineer sooner. 
Mr B and Mrs M were unhappy with the way their claim was being handled by a claims 
agent. And they were unhappy that he failed to call them back when agreed. 
In May 2021 Lloyds upheld Mr B and Mrs Ms complaints. It accepted it had failed to manage 
their expectations, hadnt called back when promised and had caused delay. For its failings it 
offered compensation of £200 and paid a further £50 compensation direct to their bank 
account. 
Mr B and Mrs M rejected the compensation of £200 and were unhappy the payment of £50 
had been paid to their account. They said the sums didnt reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr B and Mrs M asked us to look at their complaints. They explained that they remained 
unhappy with the ongoing handling of their claim after May 2021. 
Our investigator explained that we could look at the issues Mr B and Mrs M raised up to 18 
May 2021, when Lloyds issued its second of two final responses. 
Having done so, the investigator thought that Lloyds had done enough to resolve their 
complaint. So she didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
Mr B and Mrs M didnt agree. They feel the compensation award Lloyds pay them should be 
in the region of between £750 and £1,500 based on examples from our website - and to 
reflect the impact of Lloyds failings. They say the award comes to around £83 each which 
isnt a fair sum. Mr B says he was signed off from work from the date of the incident for three 
and a half weeks as a result of stress he says was caused by Lloyds. 
So as Mr B and Mrs M disagree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the timeline of events from Lloyds claim notes. I can see that the claim was 
registered on 24 April 2021. The investigator provided a timeline in her view so I dont intend 
to repeat it in my decision as I dont think this is in dispute. 
I agree that Lloyds should have appointed a structural engineer sooner than it did  and this 
resulted in a delay of around three weeks in progressing the claim. 
I can understand Mr B and Mrs Ms frustration at having to regularly call for updates as 
Lloyds failed to provide any during this time. And I can see that a new claims handler was 
appointed on 11 May 2021  who then visited Mr B and Mrs Ms home for an assessment 
two days later. 
Mr B and Mrs M complained to Lloyds on 27 April 2021 and 10 May 2021. Lloyds responded 
on 7 May 2021 and 18 May 2021. 
As Lloyds and the investigator explained, without evidence of the discussions between the 
initial claims handler and Mr B and Mrs M, its difficult to conclude that the agent lacked 
empathy and professionalism in his handling of the claim. But Lloyds explained that this 
didnt mean they didnt believe Mr B and Mrs M and it asked for a new claims handler to be 
appointed if possible. 
Ive carefully considered the details Mr B and Mrs M have provided as to what the impact of 
Lloyds failings had on them over the period of three and a half weeks. I can understand Mr 
B and Mrs Ms concerns about their home and its safety structurally. I appreciate that staying 
in hotel accommodation while alternative accommodation was being arranged would have 
caused additional inconvenience. And Ive no doubt that having to chase for updates only 
made an already worrying time worse. They understandably needed assurance from Lloyds 
that their claim was being handled promptly and moving forward. 
However, Ive also taken into account that a claim of this nature  due to the severity of the 
damage to their home - will have caused inevitable disruption to daily life and upheaval as a 
result of the incident. So Ive made a distinction between that and the actions of Lloyds and 
the additional distress and inconvenience caused by it. 
Mr B and Mrs M feel the compensation award should be in the region of between £750 and 
£1,500 and have provided wording from our website. I can see that the example given is 
about the impact of the businesss mistake and that the mistake caused substantial distress, 
upset and worry  even potentially a serious offence or humiliation. There may have been 
serious disruption to daily life over a sustained period, with the impact felt over many 
months, sometimes over a year. It could also be fair to award in this range if the business's 
actions resulted in a substantial short-term impact." 
I fully appreciate that deciding an award for compensation is subjective  and what the 
impact is for one person may be different in the same circumstances to another. 
Ive considered the period of time which is the subject of Mr B and Mrs Ms complaint  and 
the inevitable distress and inconvenience caused by the incident and having to claim. Having 
done so, Im satisfied that the compensation Lloyds has paid for its part in adding to the 
existing distress and inconvenience is fair and in line with our approach. 
I understand Mr B and Mrs Ms strength of feeling about their complaint. But I think Lloyds 
has done enough to put things right. So Im not asking it to do any more. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I think the compensation award of 
£200 which Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited offered and £50 its already paid is fair to 
resolve the complaint. 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation of £200  if it hasnt 
already paid it - within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B and Mrs M accept my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman