DRN-2861961
The complaint
Mr F complains that Starling Bank Limited decided he was liable for some transactions he 
disputed. Hes also unhappy that the bank didnt step in to support him with his gambling.
What happened
Around November 2019, Mr F contacted Starling and said he didnt recognise several 
payments that had been made from his account. The payments had been made across 
several days in August 2019 and were for a total of around £19,000. 
After Starling decided he was liable for the payments, Mr F complained. Mr F says there 
were other payments that he made to the merchant that received the funds, but the few he 
identified as part of this complaint werent ones that he recognised. 
Mr F says he hasnt shared his card details with anyone else and that he usually accessed 
the merchants website using his mobile device or laptop. Mr F used the merchants website 
to gamble and isnt sure whether someone couldve seen his password when accessing his 
account. 
Mr F also thinks Starling shouldve stepped in to help him because of the amount of 
gambling payments hed been making via his bank account. 
Starling decided that Mr F was liable for the disputed payments. The bank says it only 
became aware of the payments Mr F was making towards gambling when it investigated the 
disputed payments. Starling says it couldve placed a gambling block on Mr Fs account 
upon his request and that it wouldve been difficult to spot there was a problem - given Mr F 
was using his Starling account as a secondary account. Mr F remained unhappy and asked 
this service to review the matter. 
Our investigator concluded that Starling had acted fairly when it said Mr F was liable for the 
disputed payments. The investigator also said that she didnt think that Starling had done 
something wrong in not reaching out to Mr F to support him with his gambling. 
Mr F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to carry out a final review of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Starling can hold Mr F liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. The relevant
regulations to this effect are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). 
Were the payments authorised?
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied the genuine card was used for the disputed 
payments. Mr F says hes not given access to his card details to anyone else. Mr F says his 
card details were stored on his account with the merchant, which he says he usually 
accessed using his mobile device or laptop. And the information Starling has provided 
breaking down each transaction shows that Mr Fs card was used each time.
Starling provided us with a copy of the merchants file that was obtained as part of the banks 
investigation. This shows that the account with the merchant was set up under Mr Fs name, 
using his date of birth, address and email. The merchants information indicates that the use 
of Mr Fs account remained consistent throughout  this includes the gameplay, device and 
the internet protocol (IP) address. 
Looking at the gambling account history, it seems Mr F accessed and carried out 
transactions on this account several times each day  and the pattern of spending is 
consistent with Mr Fs activity on the account around that time. Also, the IP address before, 
during and after the disputed payments seem to be the same. This suggest that someone 
with the same internet connection as Mr F carried out these payments.
As Mr F says, his card details and his log in details for his gambling account havent been 
shared with anyone. So its difficult to conclude how someone other than Mr F couldve 
carried out the disputed payments. Moreover, as our investigator pointed out, the usage data 
for Mr Fs gambling account and the close proximity of the disputed payments to this, makes 
it seem more likely that it was Mr F that carried out these payments. It doesnt seem 
plausible that someone else gained access to both Mr Fs card and his gambling account 
only for the specific periods that the disputed payments took place, without Mr F knowing or 
agreeing to it.
Moreover, it seems each of the disputed payments were preceded by a large transfer of 
funds into Mr Fs Starling account. For example, on 14 August 2019, a payment of £2,000 
was paid to the merchant almost instantly after the same amount was transferred into Mr Fs 
Starling account. This makes it seem more likely that it was indeed Mr F carrying out the 
disputed payments. Theres nothing Ive seen that indicates his bank account may have 
been compromised. So whoever carried out the payments wouldve needed to have known 
that sufficient funds had been credited to Mr Fs bank account. And its unlikely that 
someone other than Mr F wouldve been able to access his gambling account, his card and 
bank account at the same time. 
The information Starling sent us shows that Mr Fs online banking was accessed on some of 
the days the disputed payments took place, and the activity that was carried out needed a 
password for verification. Additionally, the make and model of the phone registered to Mr Fs 
account is the same as the phone Mr F says he owns. So, I havent seen anything that 
suggests anyone other than Mr F couldve carried out this activity on his account.
So Im of the view that Mr F authorised and consented to the payments he now disputes.
Ive nevertheless considered whether an unknown third party couldve carried out the 
disputed payments. Mr F suggests his password couldve been compromised when hes 
accessed his gambling account in a more public setting. Mr F also provided a screen shot of 
a message he says he received from a credit reference agency, warning that his passwords 
had been stolen. But its difficult to rely on this given the message isnt dated and doesnt 
include any particular details. 
Also, if Mr Fs card details were fraudulently used by an unknown third party, its unlikely that 
the third party would use it to fraudulently carry out payments towards Mr Fs gambling 
account. Any winnings would be paid to Mr F and not the fraudster, so the third party would have nothing to gain. So the use of the card doesnt point to it having been in the hands of 
an opportunistic thief.
Instead, as I mentioned earlier, the pattern of spending seems to fit Mr Fs spending history 
with the merchant. And, as theres no evidence that points to Mr Fs bank account being 
compromised either, an unknown third party carrying out these payments seems unlikely to 
me  as the fraudster wouldve needed access to Mr Fs bank account at the same time in 
order to know that funds had been deposited in to it. So I dont think an unknown third party 
fraudulently carried out these payments. 
Ive also considered whether someone close to Mr F couldve carried out the disputed 
payments. Its a possible explanation, given the consistency in IP addresses between the 
disputed payments and the payments Mr F says were genuine  that were made around the 
same time. 
But Mr F says his card details havent been shared with anyone. And, given the pattern of 
spending is consistent with Mr Fs usual account behaviour with this merchant and that the 
payer wouldve needed detailed knowledge of the deposits being made in to Mr Fs bank 
account  I think it is unlikely that someone close to Mr F carried out these payments without 
his consent.
Taking everything into account, its difficult for me to conclude that somebody other than 
Mr F carried out the payments he is now disputing. So I wont be asking Starling to 
reimburse him.
Gambling
Its clear from Mr Fs banking activity that he spent large sums on gambling. Alongside the 
information provided by the merchant, its apparent that Mr F was gambling regularly and 
often carrying out multiple transactions in one day. Mr F thinks that Starling shouldve 
stepped in to help him once the extent of his gambling was clear. He says he mainly used 
his savings and a loan to fund his gambling.
Starling says that Mr F never reached out for support and that it couldve placed a gambling 
block on his account, upon his request. 
Given the significant number of gambling payments that Mr F was making from his account, I 
can understand why he expects Starling to have done more. Had the bank stepped in 
sooner, it couldve offered him support or placed a block on his account to prevent these 
types of transactions. But, in this instance, I dont think Starling did something wrong by not 
stepping in.
Looking at his statements, it seems to me that Mr F was using his Starling account as a 
secondary account. Any funds that were deposited were transferred from another one of 
Mr Fs bank accounts held with a third-party bank. And it doesnt appear as though Mr F 
used his Starling account to pay for essential living costs. As our investigator pointed out, 
although Mr F spent a significant sum overall towards gambling, he also had significant 
winnings. And it seems he went into the agreed overdraft only on a few occasions. 
As Starling wouldnt have had access to Mr Fs third-party bank account, it wouldve been 
difficult to determine the impact the gambling was having on Mr Fs day-to-day finances, as 
well as understand where he was getting the money from. Mr F rarely borrowed money 
using his overdraft and his deposits seem to suggest that he had access to enough money 
to fund his gambling.Moreover, Starling says Mr F enabled some of the card control features shortly after opening 
the account. I cant say for certain whether Mr F was aware he couldve blocked gambling 
transactions too  but I dont think the bank acted unfairly by not flagging this him, given his 
account activity made it seem as though he was managing his finances well. I also wouldnt 
expect Starling to automatically block gambling transactions unless Mr F asked it to.
So Im not of the opinion that Starling needed to do more to support Mr F in stopping his 
gambling transactions.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman