DRN-2878862
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the decision of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) to 
decline his claim relating to his boiler made under a home emergency policy.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In March 2020 Mr F chased up the annual service of his boiler which was overdue. The 
annual boiler service was an optional extra attached to the policy, but was not provided by 
RSA, and did not form part of the insurance element of the policy. The servicing engineer 
who visited condemned the boiler and switched it off. He stated that the flue had a hole in it, 
and the boiler casing had rusted through at the back. The engineer said that he would report 
this.
As he had heard nothing further, the next day Mr F contacted the home emergency helpline. 
After he had chased the matter, RSA informed him that he should arrange for a new boiler to 
be installed, and that he would receive a contribution towards its costs from the policy.
In further communications, RSA reconfirmed to Mr F that his claim would be met under the 
policy, and he was asked to provide a copy of the invoice for the new boiler. The boiler was 
replaced, and Mr F gave RSA his bank details for payment. But RSA then told Mr F that he 
was not entitled to receive any payment under the policy for the condemned boiler.
Mr F stated that around this time, he was made redundant due to the effects of the Covid-19 
pandemic. Because hed been told by RSA that he would receive a contribution for his boiler, 
he paid some outstanding bills and his mortgage payments. Had he known he would not be 
receiving a payment for the boiler, Mr F says that he would not have paid these bills, and he 
would have utilised mortgage holiday facilities.
Mr F was unhappy about the service hed received from RSA, and said hed been left in 
freezing conditions whilst members of his family were also staying with him. If RSA had told 
him at the outset that it would not be paying a sum to replace the boiler, he says he could 
have arranged an immediate replacement.
RSA maintained that Mr F was not entitled to a payment for his boiler. It stated this was 
because he hadnt lodged a claim under the home emergency policy and the boiler had not 
been deemed Beyond Economical Repair by one of its attending engineers. RSA agreed 
that it should not have confirmed that a payment was due, and offered £50 compensation for 
poor service.
Unhappy with RSAs response, Mr F brought a complaint to this service.
In its submissions to this service, RSA went into further detail about its reasons for declining 
Mr Fs claim. Based on the policy terms, it said that Mr F would initially have needed to make 
a claim by contacting the claims department. RSA would then have assessed whether the 
described emergency was an insured event.
RSA has quoted the policy wording under the what we cover section for boilers. This states 
that the policy provides assistance in an emergency following the complete breakdown of 
the domestic boiler.  Assistance is defined as being (t)he reasonable efforts made by the 
approved engineerto complete a temporary repair to limit or prevent damage or if at 
similar expense, the cost of completing a permanent repair.
RSA stated that it would not have been able to complete any type of repair because the 
engineer who carried out the annual service had already condemned the boiler. This meant 
the only way to limit or prevent further damage was to turn the boiler off.
In addition, RSA commented that the engineer who condemned the boiler was not an 
approved engineer as defined by the policy, because to be so he would need to have been 
instructed by its claims helpline service. Instead, that engineer was appointed by the 
business which arranged the annual service. RSA highlighted that the annual service was 
not part of the insurance contract that it underwrites.
In terms of the boiler being beyond economical repair, RSA pointed to the policy definition 
which stated that such a diagnosis would need to be made by an approved engineer  or in 
other words, an engineer instructed by the claims helpline on behalf of RSA, not an engineer 
appointed by another business to carry out the annual service. And, it highlighted that the 
boiler replacement contribution, which was the section of the policy Mr F was initially told he 
would receive a payment under, stated that it was only applicable if we or the approved 
engineer declare the boiler to be uneconomical to repair. RSAs view was that this had not 
happened in this case, so it was not liable to cover any boiler replacement costs.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He noted that the policy provides a contribution 
where RSA or an approved engineer declares a boiler to be uneconomical to repair. The 
investigator said that whilst the engineer who condemned the boiler was not an approved 
engineer, he was a qualified professional. RSA had had the chance to ask one of its own 
approved engineers to also carry out an inspection if it had wanted to, and had it done so, 
the investigator thought it likely the boiler would have been found to be uneconomical to 
repair.
The fact that RSA had told Mr F several times that he would be receiving a payment 
suggested to the investigator that RSA accepted what the inspecting engineer had 
concluded about the status of the existing boiler. He proposed that RSA should pay Mr F 
£500 for the boiler replacement plus interest.
RSA disagreed with the investigators findings. It reiterated that the annual service does not 
form part of the insurance policy. As underwriter of the home emergency insurance policy, 
RSA states it has no oversight of the annual service, and that this is handled by a different 
business. It considers that because the boiler was condemned during an annual service, this 
was not the result of an emergency, and so Mr F is not entitled to a payment under the policy 
terms. Otherwise, RSAs view is that it is being asked to pay out for an uninsured event.
Since being passed this case to review, I have asked RSA to confirm what actions it would 
have taken if Mr F had rung its claims helpline service to make a claim under the insurance 
policy straight after he had been told during the annual service that the boiler was being 
condemned. I wanted RSA to explain whether this would have been treated as a claim. 
RSAs provided a response, but it was a reiteration of submissions it had previously made to 
this service.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs policy provides cover as a result of an emergency occurring at the home. An 
emergency is defined as a sudden and unexpected event which, if not dealt with quickly 
would in the reasonable opinion of the Claims Helpline Service:
a) Render the home unsafe or insecure; or
b) Damage or cause further damage to the home; or
c) Cause personal risk to you; or
d) Cause a health and safety risk to others.
For cover to apply, an emergency must also be an insured event. An insured event is 
shown in the what we cover sections of the policy. One of the what we cover sections of 
Mr Fs policy was for a boiler replacement contribution.
As I understand it, the boiler was working up to the visit of the engineer who carried out the 
annual service in March 2020. The servicing engineer condemned the boiler and turned it 
off. In my view, the loss of heating and hot water represented a sudden and unexpected 
event, and this would fall under the categories shown above for an emergency.
The policy requires RSAs claims helpline service to deem an event to be an emergency. 
Key to RSAs response to Mr Fs complaint is that an emergency claim was not made to its 
claims helpline service. RSA has said that a claim under its policy would have needed to be 
accepted in the first instance.
I accept that the annual boiler service does not form part of the insurance policy underwritten 
by RSA, and that the engineer who carried out that service was not appointed by RSA. 
However, it doesnt seem that RSA disputes what the findings of the servicing engineer were 
 this being that the flue had a hole in it, and the casing was rusted through at the back. This 
led to the servicing engineer condemning the boiler.
I have asked RSA to confirm what action it would have taken if Mr F had rung its claims 
helpline service to make a claim straight after he was told during the annual service that the 
boiler was condemned. I cannot see that RSA has responded directly to this question. But if 
Mr F had contacted the claims helpline service as soon as the boiler was condemned, my 
understanding is that RSA would have appointed one of its approved engineers to inspect it. 
As explained above, based on the findings of the servicing engineer who did inspect the 
boiler, it seems likely to me that an RSA approved engineer would have found the boiler to 
be beyond economical repair.
In addition, throughout this process it seems to me that in his attempts to obtain a 
functioning boiler and restore heating and hot water to his home, Mr F has followed all the 
instructions he was given, and acted as a responsible homeowner. Initially the servicing 
engineer told Mr F that he would report the failure of the boiler. The next day, when Mr F had 
heard nothing further, he telephoned the number for RSAs claims helpline service. Having 
chased, he was told that RSA would be offering to pay the boiler replacement contribution  
but this offer was subsequently withdrawn.
Mr F was therefore in contact with RSAs claims helpline service, and RSA had the 
opportunity to send its approved engineer to inspect the boiler, but did not do so. Overall, my 
view is that in these circumstances, it is fair to require RSA to pay Mr F under the boiler 
replacement contribution section of the policy.Mr F has also explained the difficulties he experienced after he was left with no heating or 
hot water. This lasted for ten days, and Mr F had two family members staying with him at the 
same time. Having been told that he was to receive a contribution from RSA for the boiler, 
and then being informed that this was not the case, Mr F used his own funds to pay for a 
new boiler. These events also occurred as the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic started to 
be felt, and Mr F has explained that sadly he lost employment at this time.
Mr F says that because he understood he would be receiving a contribution from RSA for his 
boiler, he chose to pay some outstanding bills that he otherwise would not have done. He 
also says that had he known he wasnt going to receive a payment from RSA, he could have 
applied for a mortgage payment holiday, rather than paying his mortgage.
It seems to me likely that Mr F would have incurred interest on outstanding debts if he had 
not paid them, and so its not clear to me whether RSAs decision to ultimately decline his 
claim has caused him financial detriment. However, my view is that RSAs decision to initially 
offer payment to Mr F and then withdraw that offer has caused him unnecessary distress.
In addition, Mr F says he could have arranged a boiler replacement quicker if he had not 
been directed by RSA to follow its process to obtain a payment under the policy. On balance 
my view is that RSAs actions in its handling of this claim did cause Mr F some significant 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience at what was clearly a difficulty time in his life.  I 
therefore intend to award Mr F £300 (which includes the £50 already offered by RSA) to 
reflect the difficulties caused to him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr F confirmed that he accepted my provisional decision, and had no further comments to 
make.
RSA did not provide any further substantive submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the findings I outlined in my provisional decision, and taking into account the 
responses to that decision, I do not consider I have reason to alter the outcome I reached in 
my provisional decision.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc to carry out the following actions:-
Settle Mr Fs claim under the Boiler Replacement Contribution section of his policy, in 
line with the policy terms.
To the payment due should be added 8% per annum simple interest from the date 
that Mr F paid for his replacement boiler to the date of settlement. If Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from this interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr F a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr F £300 (which includes the £50 already offered) in respect of distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman