DRN-3207804
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC is about the transfer of her ISA to another 
provider.
What happened
Mrs M applied in February 2019 to transfer the investments held in her Barclays ISA to 
another provider. The first request on 6 February was rejected because Barclays said the 
address Mrs M gave didnt match their records. The second request on 15 February was 
rejected because Barclays said there was an outstanding administration fee on Mrs Ms 
account. The transfer was finally completed on 13 March 2019.
Mrs M complained to Barclays about several issues relating to her change of address and 
the ISA transfer. Barclays issued various replies to Mrs M before sending a final response on 
12 June 2019 which they said covered all the points she had raised. In that letter Barclays 
accepted that they had made mistakes which had caused distress and inconvenience to 
Mrs M and offered her a total of £300 in compensation.   
When Mrs M brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, she accepted that 
Barclays had offered her reasonable compensation in relation to all her complaint points 
except one. She said Barclays hadnt addressed her complaint about the delay attributed to 
outstanding account fees. She said no fees were due at the time of the transfer request and 
even if they had been Barclays should have just deducted them from her account and gone 
ahead with the transfer. Mrs M said she would like Barclays to pay her a further £100 in 
compensation.
Our investigator thought the administration fee was due and that Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong by rejecting the ISA transfer until the fee had been paid. She thought 
Barclays offer of compensation was fair and didnt think they should do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive focused on the outstanding complaint point that Mrs M has raised. But Id 
like to reassure Mrs M that Ive looked at all the information both she and Barclays have 
provided to get a full picture of what happened with her ISA transfer.
Ive looked first at whether there were any fees outstanding when Barclays received Mrs Ms 
transfer request. 
Barclays have said the monthly administration fee for Mrs Ms account was generated on 
4 February. In line with their standard process, the fee would then show as pending for 
21 days to allow a customer to pay by debit card if they chose to do so. If the customer was 
happy to pay the fee from the cash balance in their account, it would be debited on the 
25th of the month. Barclays have said that Mrs Ms account was set for the administration fee 
to be taken from her ISA cash balance, so the February fee wasnt paid until 25 February.
Barclays have said it is their standard policy not to go ahead with transfers until outstanding 
fees have been paid. They received Mrs Ms second transfer request on 15 February and 
rejected it because the fee generated on 4 February was still outstanding. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was an outstanding fee on Mrs Ms 
account when Barclays received the transfer request. And I dont think I can say that 
Barclays did anything wrong by rejecting the request in line with their standard policy.
I note that Mrs M didnt receive the fees letter Barclays sent to her previous address on 
4 February. Barclays have already offered compensation to Mrs M in relation to her 
complaint about her change of address, and Mrs M has accepted that offer as reasonable. 
But the administration fee was charged, and similar letters sent, on a monthly basis, so I 
think it is reasonable to say that Mrs M could have expected the fee to be charged in the 
same way in February 2019. 
I appreciate that Mrs M thinks Barclays should have done more. She has said that Barclays 
could have just deducted the fee from her account and gone ahead with the transfer. And I 
note that when the transfer went ahead in March Barclays were able to retain £4 to cover the 
next months administration fee which had by then been generated. 
I note that in their letter of 12 June 2019 to Mrs M, Barclays said: 
Whilst not a bank error, I accept had this outstanding amount been communicated 
earlier, this may have prevented further delay. In light of this and the service received 
on 12 February [when Mrs M visited a branch about her change of address] I would 
offer you a further £50.00.
As I dont think Barclays did anything wrong by rejecting Mrs Ms transfer request because of 
the outstanding fee, I think what they said above was fair and reasonable. And the £50 
referred to was included in the total compensation of £300 that Barclays offered to Mrs M.
I understand that Mrs M feels strongly about the service she received from Barclays. 
But having looked at her outstanding complaint point, and considered all the evidence, I 
wont be asking Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
Barclays have already made an offer to pay £300 to settle Mrs Ms complaint and I think that 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £300 to Mrs M if they havent done 
so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman