DRN-2447268
The complaint
Miss J complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent to her irresponsibly.
Miss J also complains that default notices were issued, she tried to call to discuss and/or pay 
down the account, but received no response. So, Miss J says that the subsequent default 
entered in relation to the loan was unfair and incorrectly entered, and it should be removed. 
What happened
Miss J was approved for one loan of £300 on 5 December 2019. It was a 170 day loan term 
and due to be repaid in 24 weekly instalments of around £23 a week. The last scheduled 
repayment was due to be around £22 on 22 May 2020. The repayments had a monthly 
equivalent of around £99.
 
Miss J says that if Lending Stream had done proper checks it would have recognised she 
could not afford the loan. Miss J has sent copies of her bank statements for the two months 
leading up to the December 2019 approval date.
 
Miss J has explained that in early April 2020 she suffered a traumatic event and this, 
combined with the national pandemic restrictions and the stress about the loan has caused 
high anxiety. Lending Stream corresponded with Miss J about the arrears and a default 
recording and Miss J is concerned that the default record will affect future employment 
prospects. She does not think the default ought to have been applied.
Lending Stream did not uphold her complaint. Miss J had already brought her complaint to 
this service before the final response letter from Lending Stream had been issued. 
Investigation into the complaint commenced when the documents from Lending Stream were 
received and one of our adjudicators thought that the loan had been lent responsibly. She 
also thought that the default had not been entered and recorded unfairly.
 
So, our adjudicator did not think that Lending Stream needed to do anything further.
Miss J did not agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss J could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or where the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a 
customer has been given loans need to be looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Miss J could sustainably repay her loans 
 not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. In particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments.
 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
Irresponsible lending
I would not expect Lending Stream to carry out a full financial review on Miss Js financial 
situation for a first loan at £300 with a monthly equivalent repayment of around £99. Miss J 
had declared her monthly income as £1,520 and outgoings and normal monthly expenses as 
£125 which Lending Stream increased for the purposes of its assessment to £208. Miss J 
declared credit commitments of around £25 which Lending Stream did not consider it 
needed to increase after carrying out a credit search. I think those checks were 
proportionate and I would not have expected it to do more.
 
I do not uphold Miss Js complaint about irresponsible lending.
pressure
Miss J has said that she was in a relationship where the circumstances were difficult. Miss J 
has described that she was pressurised and forced to take out the loan. If the allegation of 
pressure was against Lending Stream then it would be something I could look into as the 
respondent firm for the complaint is Lending Stream. These allegations are against another 
party and are potentially criminal matters which I cannot look into. So, all I can recommend is 
that Miss J looks at having this investigated elsewhere. Application of the default
Our adjudicator explained: 
Ive reviewed the available information and I can see that there was a missed 
payment in December 2019 and the last payment to be made to the loan was on 
4 February 2020. You seem to have had a conversation with Lending Stream in 
February, as it issued a change to the repayment schedule where it had agreed a 
concession on the loan payments. However, no payments were received, and 
another concession was agreed on your loan in April 2020  but again payments 
werent received.
Given payments have not been made to the loan since February 2020 I cannot say 
Lending Stream has acted unfairly by applying a default to your credit file and 
recommend that it is removed.
I have seen the letters Lending Stream has sent to Miss J which include arrears notices and 
default notices at various intervals from December 2019 to May 2020, and I have seen that  
the later ones gave a link to a part of its website. I have looked at that link which offers 
several ways that Miss J could contact Lending Stream and the letters/emails gave clear 
dates by which remedy needed to have been made.  
Miss J is very clear in her explanation of events that she tried to call and contact Lending 
Stream many times and if it had responded she would have entered a repayment plan and 
so avoided the default. But this does not seem to fit with the information and correspondence 
that I do have. I can see that she did make contact about rearranging repayments at least 
twice  21 February 2020 and 20 April 2020. Those letters from Lending Stream said: 
With reference to your loan agreement (Loan Reference Id: ***) we are writing to 
confirm our discussions with you.
We appreciate your concern to repay us the credit owed by you and, given your 
current financial difficulties, we have decided, as a concession (and without in any 
way abandoning or modifying any of our rights under the Loan Agreement) to give 
you some more time to pay the amount you owe us, by allowing you to continue to 
pay monthly sums in accordance with the following payment schedule:
This demonstrates to me that Miss J did contact Lending Stream for it to have agreed to 
these arrangements and reference was made to the financial difficulties which Miss J must 
have, or is highly likely to have, explained to Lending Stream. 
Miss Js complaint form refers to a call with Lending Stream on 18 March 2020 to say that 
her situation had changed. And in one of Miss Js emails to our adjudicator she said that she 
informed the company that she needed time as she was out of work. So, these explanations 
dovetail with what I have seen and explained above  they suggest that Miss J did make 
contact and received responses from Lending Stream and new payment terms on at least 
two occasions if not more. 
 
I have seen the Notice of Default sent on 25 April 2020 just a few days after the change of 
repayment schedule was confirmed with her on 20 April 2020. And the formal Default Notice 
was issued on 26 April 2020 - the date to remedy the arrears was 15 May 2020. The Formal 
Demand was dated 15 May 2020.
Miss J has said to us that she was making payments regularly until Covid-19 hit, but the 
evidence I have seen show that was not the case. Miss J has sent to me her copy bank statements up to June 2020. I note from Miss Js 
personal credit file and from the bank statements she has sent to me that she had at least 
one other bank account and there are a lot of transfers between the accounts, in and out, 
and so its difficult to see exactly what Miss Js financial situation was. The bank statements 
I do have do not show her salary being paid into it, and I know this as Miss J has sent to me 
a list of her salary credits but not the account into which they were paid. So, its likely her 
salary was paid into that other account. Her salary stopped on 28 February 2020.
And the copy statements I do have show weekly payments to Lending Stream from 
16 December 2019 up to 20 January 2020 but not after that. Miss J may have used another 
account to pay Lending Stream after that, but the Statement of Account records from 
Lending Stream show me that it has not received any payment since January 2020. 
I have read the email correspondence between Miss J and Lending Stream sent to us by 
Miss J to demonstrate all her attempts to contact Lending Stream. Miss J blames Lending 
Stream for not responding and not helping her. But one series of emails sent to us recently 
are all dated 15 May 2020, with one on 17 May 2020. The other emails Miss J refers to 
commence after the deadline date had already passed  late May 2020  almost a month 
after the Notice of Default was sent. So, I am not persuaded that Miss J was constantly 
calling Lending Stream and was ignored. I think that she was contacting them too late.
Miss J has sent to me her credit file and it is dated 8 May 2020 and the entry for Lending 
Stream does not show any default recorded. It may have happened later, but I do not know 
the date. 
It seems that Miss J failed to make the repayments agreed in February and April 2020 which 
likely precipitated the deterioration in the lending relationship and likely led to the Default 
Notice being sent. And following the Default Notice still Miss J had time to try to fix it but as 
I have said earlier, from the evidence from Miss J, I think that these were too late. 
Any specific payment holiday payment periods allowed due to the current pandemic relate to 
individuals where the repayment difficulties started as a result of Covid issues. But here its 
clear that Miss J ceased paying in or around late January 2020 and informed Lending 
Stream of her change of circumstances in March 2020. Some parts of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) CONC 6 provisions were suspended. But CONC also makes provision that 
for customers already in difficulties, the original approach applies. And I think that Miss Js 
issues about repayment commenced in January 2020 and lasted until May 2020. The issues 
about being able to pay this debt were already existing when any alterations to the FCA 
rules came into existence. 
I do not think that Lending Stream has acted unfairly by applying a default to her credit file 
and so I am not able to recommend that it is removed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Js complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 
18 January 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman