DRN-3092318
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains about the actions of The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS) regarding the management of its loan accounts.
What happened
In 2008, C took out loans from RBS which were due to mature in September 2011. In late 
2010, RBS transferred the management of Cs accounts to a Specialist Relationship 
Manager (SRM) and then to its Global Restructuring Group (GRG) in early 2011. Cs 
lending was restructured towards the end of 2011. There were further restructures, 
supplemental agreements and deferrals in 2012, 2013 and 2014. The lending was 
refinanced with another lender in 2015.
The background to these events also involves another company, which Ill call V. The two 
companies are connected by ownership and management within the same family. To make 
this decision easier to read, I shall also refer to V and C as the companies.
V also had a loan from RBS, which was due to mature at the end of October 2010. In the 
spring of 2009, the companies initiated discussions with the banks relationship manager 
about refinancing the loans. These discussions continued with him through 2009 and 2010.
In October 2010, Vs loan expired without a replacement loan being agreed. By then, the 
management of the companies accounts had been transferred to SRM. The transfer to GRG 
followed in early 2011.
In 2017, the companies complained to the bank about its management of their loan 
accounts. RBS reviewed the complaints under its voluntary GRG complaints scheme. The 
outcome for C was that the banks review made no redress offer. The bank offered V a 
redress payment for default interest charged during a delay in restructuring its loan in 2011. 
This was in addition to a payment already made to V under the schemes Automatic Fee 
Refund process. Following the companies appeal to the Independent Third Party (ITP), the 
bank confirmed that the outcomes of the review were unchanged.
V accepted the banks settlement offer and the redress was paid to V in January 2019.
C wasnt satisfied with the outcome of its complaint and referred the matter to this service in 
April 2019. C believed the reasons given by RBS for the transfer to GRG were artificially 
created to force the companies to refinance elsewhere and/or to force them into insolvency. 
C also believed that RBS had been deceitful and deliberately misled the companies over a 
prolonged period, and reneged on comments made by the banks relationship manager.
C said the banks conduct caused it to pay sums that wouldnt otherwise have been payable. 
It said the complaint is extremely simple. Having, for whatever reason, made that decision 
to alter its own business model, all the Bank had to do and what it should have done, was to 
be straightforward, decent, open, transparent and above all, honest.
C also said it wasnt told in advance or during the term of the loan that the GRG team would 
take over managing the loans within RBS.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Cs complaint should be upheld. In summary, these 
were his findings:
There are many different aspects to the complaint, but he focused his attention on 
the thrust of the complaint as described above, regarding the transfer to GRG and 
the lack of honest and transparent communication about the banks lending appetite.
The loan agreements didnt need to specify which department would manage the 
banks relationship with the companies. The investigator thought it reasonable for the 
bank to manage the accounts through whichever team it considered most suitable, 
as long as the customers were treated fairly by that team and during the transition.
At the time of the transfer to GRG, property values were falling, so it wasnt 
unreasonable for the bank to carry out a valuation of its security. Moreover, the 
valuation and its impact on loan-to-value ratio (LTV) was only one of the reasons 
given for the transfer. The bank was concerned about the companies ability to repay 
the lending, and the transfer to GRG was a result. Irrespective of the security 
shortfall, the investigator thought the transfer would have happened anyway.
The investigator couldnt see that moving the loans into GRG made any difference to 
the likely outcome. If the SRM, or the original relationship manager, had retained the 
management of the loans, they too would have needed to find a way to get the bank 
repaid.
Having been through all the correspondence hed been given, the investigator 
couldnt see there was any attempt by the bank to deceive about its changed appetite 
for lending to the property sector.
In 2011 the bank told the company that the transfer to GRG was because of a 
perceived security shortfall and concerns regarding your ability to service loan capital 
and interest repayments within the Bank's current lending policy. It also said the role 
of GRG was to support corporate turnaround and where possible return the 
relationship to the local manager at the earliest and to return customers to frontline 
banking. Given that GRG continued to support the company by renewing the lending 
for a further four years, the investigator couldnt see that it acted in a way that was 
inconsistent with its stated aims.
C didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. On behalf of C, its director Mr D made a 
number of points. In summary:
The analysis should start in 2009, when the companies and RBS began discussions 
about renewing the lending. Throughout these discussions in 2009 and 2010, the 
banks relationship manager made promises that the financing would be renewed 
when the existing loans expired, as long as £50,000 new capital was introduced by 
the customers. The bank misled the companies for 14 months and left them no time 
to obtain finance elsewhere, thus creating Vs default. C isnt arguing that the 
promises were contractually binding  rather, that this is a matter of whats fair and 
reasonable.
In this respect, RBS has already admitted the communication failings on the part of 
the relationship manager.The companies werent told that refinancing couldnt be assumed.
Other than the value of the security, the reasons given by the bank for transferring 
the accounts to GRG havent been tested. These grounds were false. And the bank 
admitted in its review that the LTV wasnt an appropriate reason for transfer to GRG.
C shouldnt have been transferred to GRG with V. Its lending was set to run for a 
year longer than Vs and there were no inter-company guarantees until after the 
transfer to GRG.
As regards managing the accounts, the bank cant do as it pleases regardless of 
what it contracted to do. It should explain, at the outset of the lending, its procedures 
for default.
The investigator referred to changes in the banks fortunes following the financial 
crisis and market changes. Its grossly unfair to take this into account in the 
assessment of the complaint.
Transfer to GRG meant that C paid more interest and fees, so it cant be said that the 
likely outcome would have been the same without the transfer.
C would have had no problems outside GRG. It was the management of the 
accounts by GRG that caused the problems.
The reason why the bank continued to support C beyond January 2013 was its 
commitment under the voluntary review of interest rate hedging products (IRHPs) 
agreed with the Financial Conduct Authority. Under that commitment, RBS agreed 
not to make things worse for customers until that review had been completed.
The investigators findings dont address the problems with the processes of the 
banks GRG review or the ITP.
I issued a first provisional decision in May 2021 in which I said I was minded not to uphold 
the complaint, largely for the same reasons as the investigator. I made some further 
comments, which I include in summary in my findings below. Following further points from 
Mr D, which are also summarised below, I issued a second provisional decision in August 
2021, again saying I was minded not to uphold the complaint. Mr D strongly disagreed with 
my conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I remain of the same view that I reached in my second provisional 
decision, as I set out below.
Theres been extensive correspondence on this case. Id like to assure the parties that Ive 
looked at all the arguments and evidence with care. In this decision Ill concentrate on the 
key arguments and evidence that are material to my determination of the complaint.
Did the bank act unfairly or unreasonably when it didnt renew the lending in 2010 on terms 
that suited C?Its clear that in 2009 and part of 2010, the banks relationship manager didnt keep the 
companies up to date with changes in RBSs lending appetite. The bank has acknowledged 
the communication failures and has apologised to the companies. But I can see no evidence 
that the relationship manager or the bank deliberately deceived the companies in order to 
engineer a default by V.
Had the bank wanted to be rid of the companies business, it had no need of such a devious 
strategy. The loans were coming to expiry and RBS was under no obligation to renew them, 
so it could have achieved that result by doing nothing.
In response to this point, Mr D says its nonsense to suggest RBS could have done nothing, 
because the bank wanted to keep the business and told the companies they would get 
refinance on terms similar to their previous loans. But my point was intended to address the 
part of Cs original complaint which suggested that the reasons given by RBS for the transfer 
to GRG were artificially created to force the companies to refinance elsewhere and/or to 
force them into insolvency. In my view, if RBS had wished to end its relationship with the 
companies, it only needed to let the loans expire in 2010 and 2011. Its still my opinion that 
neither the relationship manager nor the bank deliberately held back information from the 
companies in the period up to September 2010 in order to deceive them.
In respect of what Mr D has argued above, I accept that the relationship manager was 
enthusiastic about getting the companies borrowing renewed. Its clear to me that he wanted 
to see RBS continue financing the companies and, from his position within the bank, he 
advocated for RBS to renew the loans on terms that suited the companies. According to
Mr D, the relationship manager said, during a discussion either in June 2009 or early in 
2010, that the loans would be renewed if there were a cash injection by the customers. But it 
was always the case that the lending proposal would need to be cleared by the banks credit 
department, and I cant see that the relationship manager hid that from the companies. I 
believe all the parties would have been aware that a renewal and its terms would need 
formal approval at a higher level. Theres no evidence that the deal suggested by the 
relationship manager had the sanction of the banks credit department, or that he claimed 
that to be the case. In my view, what the relationship manager said was a matter of 
reasonably held opinion. For these reasons, I dont believe that the specific arrangements 
discussed in 2009 or early 2010 can be considered a promise by the bank.
Mr D says the companies have never alleged that what the relationship manager said was a 
promise. But in a previous submission  in his comments on the investigators conclusions  
Mr D said We are stating the truth when we state the Bank promised us, via [the 
relationship manager] that we would be refinanced provided only that we introduced £50k of 
capital, and Mr D made many other references to it being a promise. Moreover, in the same 
submission Mr D argued that our investigator cannot be allowed to pretend that that 
promise was not made and I therefore took this to be an important point.
Its common ground that the lending options discussed with the relationship manager werent 
legally binding on the parties. But Mr D argues that the companies were left with no time to 
look elsewhere for finance, and RBS should therefore be held responsible for the 
consequences as a matter of fairness and reasonableness. He says that if the companies 
had been told earlier than September 2010 that the bank had changed its mind, they may 
have been able get finance elsewhere, but they were given no notice.
I dont agree with Mr Ds argument. The companies knew that the loans would need to be 
approved at a higher level than the relationship manager and were therefore aware of the 
possibility that RBS might turn them down or offer lending on a different basis. In the 
absence of certainty, the companies faced a risk that their RBS borrowing would come to an end in 2010 and 2011, or that renewal would be offered on terms they didnt want. So the 
need to consider other potential avenues of finance existed throughout the period of 
discussions in 2009 and 2010. I therefore dont think that the bank can reasonably be 
required to compensate the companies for its decision not to renew on the terms discussed 
with the relationship manager.
I dont think the relationship managers optimistic pursuit of a new deal on good terms for the 
companies, or his failure to inform them about the changing risk appetite of the bank, 
prevented the companies from looking elsewhere for funding, particularly in the light of my 
findings above that there was no promise.
In response to this, Mr D says that the companies could have touted themselves round other 
banks, but that the idea is ridiculous - why would they have bothered? He says they had 
asked the bank, in good time, and had been assured of refinance on terms they could 
manage. Mr D says the companies werent aware there was a possibility that RBS might turn 
them down or offer lending on a different basis.
Having considered Mr Ds argument, I havent changed my mind. In early August 2010, the 
companies supplied information to the relationship manager to accompany the application 
for lending approval, and theres no indication that the need for that approval came as a 
surprise. Moreover, the companies were experienced, well-connected property businesses 
which had negotiated loans a number of times, and in one of their complaint submissions 
they said their director could name the main commercial property managers for nearly every 
bank in the region. I think the companies had a sufficient grasp of the lending process to 
understand that until the application was approved at a higher level in the bank, the terms of 
the refinancing plan discussed with the relationship manager couldnt be relied on as a 
certainty. Im therefore still of the view that, in the light of that risk, the need to consider other 
potential avenues of finance was evident long before the end of August 2010.
Mr D says the companies were misled by the bank, and the relationship managers failure to 
keep V and C up to date with the banks change of approach was a misrepresentation, on 
which the companies relied. Mr D points out that misrepresentation need not be deliberate or 
fraudulent  it can be negligent.
I dont agree that the relationship managers or the banks actions amounted to 
misrepresentation. The communication failure on the part of the relationship manager in 
2009 and 2010 was in regard to a contract that in the end wasnt entered into, because the 
bank rejected the terms that had been under discussion. And as Ive said above, I think the 
relationship manager had made a statement of opinion, not of fact  and theres no evidence 
to suggest it was something that he didnt believe to be true at the time. So, I dont believe 
that a contract was entered into on the inducement of false statements of fact. Nor could I 
say that any alleged false statement caused C any loss, because the contract was never 
entered into.
Mr D has said the relationship managers statements led C not to search elsewhere for 
funding in 2010 to replace its RBS borrowing. Ive therefore also considered whether there 
was a negligent misstatement upon which C relied and which caused the company to suffer 
a loss. Even if RBS had a duty of care to C and the relationship managers statements 
constituted a breach of that duty, I dont in any event believe that C suffered any loss as a 
result. Thats because Cs RBS lending wasnt due to expire until September 2011, so the 
company had another year to negotiate with the bank and to consider its options, including 
the possibility of seeking funds elsewhere. Nor do I believe any losses to C were caused as 
a result of the transfer to GRG. As I explain below, I dont believe that Cs accounts were 
wrongly transferred to GRG in 2011 or that C was treated unreasonably or unfairly as a 
result of the GRG transfer. I should emphasise that I have no powers to make a finding in law here. Its my role to 
determine Cs complaint according to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. And for the reasons already stated, I dont find that the bank 
acted unfairly or unreasonably as a result of any misrepresentation or misstatement.
I appreciate that the directors were deeply disappointed that the terms of the deal under 
discussion didnt become a formal offer. But I dont think RBS acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in making its decisions in 2010.
When later the parties did enter into new lending agreements, in 2011 and later, I believe the 
facts were clear, and theres no suggestion that there was anything in the contracts that 
wasnt understood by C.
For these reasons, having considered all of Mr Ds arguments, I still dont think that the bank 
can reasonably be required to compensate C for its decision not to renew the lending in 
2010 on the terms previously discussed with the relationship manager.
Did the bank act unfairly or unreasonably by moving the management of Cs accounts to 
GRG?
I agree with the investigator that a bank is entitled to organise the management of its work 
and staff in whichever way it considers best, as long as it treats its customers fairly. I dont 
think its unfair if, in a contract, or in its terms and conditions, a bank doesnt explain its own 
management arrangements. Nor was it unfair, in my view, for RBS to organise its work and 
staff in new ways that arent described in its existing contracts. I dont think the absence of 
any mention of GRG in the loan contracts prevented RBS from reasonably transferring the 
management of accounts to that part of the bank.
I note that the banks GRG review and the ITP evaluated the validity of several reasons why 
the GRG transfer may have been justified. C disagrees with their approach and conclusions. 
But its not my role to scrutinise the reviews or the ITPs investigations, or to examine their 
processes. As I explain below, those matters are outside my jurisdiction. My role is to reach 
an independent view on whether the bank acted unfairly or unreasonably in bringing the 
accounts under the management of GRG.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that RBS transferred the companies to SRM and 
GRG because it had concerns about the risks involved in the possible renewal of its lending 
relationships with V and C. The banks approach to lending had changed in the wake of the 
financial crisis and the deterioration of the property market, and it had doubts about the 
capacity of the companies to meet an increased level of capital repayments. I believe the 
banks concerns about the companies were genuine and, in the circumstances, I dont think 
it was unreasonable or unfair of the bank to transfer the accounts to GRG.
Mr D has argued that C shouldnt have been transferred to GRG along with V when Cs loan 
still had some time to run. The bank said it regarded the companies as connected parties 
because of their common control and ownership. Mr D says they were two completely 
separate companies, albeit within the same family, and the only link was that he was a 
director of both. I think it was reasonable for RBS to choose to manage both companies 
accounts in the same department. The banks concerns regarding the risks for renewal of 
the loans applied to both companies, and there was overlap of ownership and control. In my 
view, it was reasonable to expect that strategic decisions about the future relationship 
between the bank and V would have had implications for C, and vice versa.In response to this point, Mr D says that if lending to one company in a group is risky, a bank 
isnt entitled to view other companies in the group in the same way. He says the basic idea 
of the corporate veil should apply. But I think the bank is entitled in its own lending risk 
assessments to look across companies with overlapping ownership and control, and to take 
into account the connections between them. In my view, such risk assessments dont 
interfere with the corporate status of the businesses or the rights of their shareholders, so I 
dont regard them as interfering with the corporate veil. I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for the bank to bring the management of both companies accounts into the 
same department.
In any event, Ive already said that the bank was entitled, in my view, to decide which of its 
departments should manage its business. It follows that if RBS thought it could manage the 
accounts better with both companies accounts in the same department, then it wasnt unfair 
or unreasonable of the bank to do so.
Did moving Cs accounts into GRG lead to unfair treatment in the restructuring of the 
lending, or to the companys business problems?
From the evidence Ive seen, the requirements put on C during the negotiation of 
restructured lending, and the terms of the loans offered, were a consequence of the banks 
view of the risks involved in lending to the company at the time. Most of this happened while 
the accounts were managed by GRG, but I agree with the investigator that its likely that 
RBS would have taken the same view of the risks if the company had been managed in 
mainstream banking, and would have offered the same terms.
I think that the debt reduction, arrangement fees, margin increases and costs for reviewing 
security are likely to have been the same if the accounts had remained in mainstream 
banking. Thats because the mainstream bank would have still faced the same risk issues as 
GRG in respect of the company. In any event, Cs original loans expired in 2011 and in my 
view the bank was entitled to offer renewed lending on whatever terms it chose.
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for RBS to have taken a more cautious overall 
view of lending risk after the financial crisis. That was partly in response to market changes, 
but it was also legitimate for the bank to take into account its own financial position. Its clear 
to me that this is what the investigator meant when he talked about the downturn in the 
fortunes of the banks. Banks are entitled to make their own risk assessments when 
considering applications for lending, and I think its reasonable that they take their own 
balance sheets into account.
Mr D says that it misses the point to say the requirements and terms of the loans offered 
were a consequence of the banks risk appetite. He says that Cs claim is created by the 
banks misrepresentation and the companies reliance on it. But I note that part of Cs 
complaint is that the requirements and terms of the loans agreed later were unfair and were 
a result of the accounts being managed by GRG. Thats why Ive considered the 
management of the accounts by GRG. My opinion remains that its likely that the bank would 
have offered the same terms if C had been managed in mainstream banking rather than in 
GRG.
Mr D asks why, if the bank would have decided the same outside GRG, did RBS create this 
group in the first place? In my view, thats a matter for the banks own management 
arrangements. I dont believe that the existence of a separate management unit necessarily 
implies that the decisions taken there should differ, in the same circumstances, from those 
taken elsewhere in the bank.As the investigator pointed out, RBS continued to lend to C for a further four years. Mr D 
suggests that the banks renewal of the lending beyond 2013 was motivated only by its 
commitments under the voluntary IRHP review. But I dont think its possible to conclude 
from the banks participation in the IRHP review that the companys lending wouldnt 
otherwise have been renewed. In any event, the material fact here is that the bank continued 
lending to the company. The transfer to GRG didnt result in the bank withdrawing its support 
for the company.
Mr D says the banks continued lending is irrelevant to the fact that in 2010 it changed its 
mind about lending on terms stated by the relationship manager and didnt tell the company 
until it was too late to seek funds elsewhere. I agree that the argument about the banks 
continued lending goes to a different point. I included it because it was part of my 
consideration of RBSs treatment of C when its accounts were managed by GRG, and 
because of Mr Ds comment about the IRHP review.
For the above reasons Im not persuaded that C would have had no problems outside GRG, 
or that its problems were caused by the management of its accounts by GRG.
The GRG review process and the ITP process
The Financial Ombudsman Service has no powers to consider complaints about the 
processes of the banks GRG review or the ITP. The courts have ruled that the processes of 
such voluntary redress schemes are outside the jurisdiction of our service. We do have 
powers to consider the substantive complaints made by customers about financial products 
and services, and thats what Ive done here.
In summary
For the above reasons, Ive concluded that the bank didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by 
not renewing Cs lending in 2010 or by moving the management of Cs accounts to GRG. I 
also conclude that, in any event, the bank didnt treat C unfairly or unreasonably when the 
accounts were under the management of GRG.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman