DRN-4374827
The complaint
Mr A complains that the offer Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) made to settle 
his motor insurance claim is too low. 
What happened
In March 2023, Mr As car was involved in an accident with a third-party. The accident was 
not Mr As fault. 
Mr A says the third-partys insurer offered to write off his vehicle and pay him £3,600. Mr A 
did not accept that valuation and so in April 2023, he made a claim to Skyfire instead. Skyfire 
decided it was not economical to repair the vehicle and Mr A was eventually offered £3,143 
to settle the claim. 
Mr A says Skyfires offer does not represent the true value of his vehicle, which he believes 
to be in the region of £4,500 to £6,000. Mr A complained to Skyfire because he didnt accept 
its valuation of the vehicle. 
In response to the complaint, Skyfire said its valuation was fair. It consulted three valuation 
guides and produced the following valuations: Guide 1 - £3,000; Guide 2 - £3,225; and 
Guide 3 - £2,953. The file was then passed to an engineer who said he thought the value of 
the vehicle was £3,143. Skyfire accepted there had been a delay in dealing with Mr As claim 
and it offered to pay £100 to compensate him for that delay. 
Mr A then complained to this service. Our investigator considered the complaint. He thought 
Skyfires valuation was fair, but that it should pay £200 to Mr A to compensate him for the 
customer service issues hed experienced. 
Mr A did not accept our investigators view. He said it was not possible to find a like for like 
car for sale at the price Skyfire had offered. Mr A sent us a number of advertisements to 
support his complaint submissions. 
As Mr A did not agree with our investigators view, the matter has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr A will be disappointed, but my decision is that Skyfires valuation is fair. Ill explain 
why. 
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr As policy say that where his car is deemed a total 
loss, Skyfire can settle the claim by paying the market value of the vehicle at the time of the 
loss. Market value is defined in the policy as the cost of replacing Mr As car with one of a 
similar make, model, age, mileage and condition based on market prices at the time of the 
accident. 
Assessing the value of a car isnt an exact science. Like most insurers, this service often 
finds valuation guides persuasive. Thats because the valuations are based on nationwide 
research. As a service, we generally consider the valuation guides to be helpful in showing 
likely selling prices at the month of loss. 
I can see that when Skyfire consulted the valuation guides, it entered the correct registration, 
mileage, model and date of the accident. Our investigator also consulted the same guides 
and the valuations he found were consistent with those found by Skyfire. I know Mr A was 
keen to tell us that his car was in pristine condition. But I think the condition of the vehicle 
has been most likely considered in the valuation guides. 
Ive carefully considered the adverts Mr A provided to us with a view to seeing whether they 
suggest the valuation guides are wrong or inaccurate. It is not clear when Mr A obtained 
these adverts or how close they were to the date of the accident. But in considering that 
information, I dont think they suggest the valuation guides produced an unfair valuation. 
I say this because a lot of the cars Mr A showed us were younger than his car and some 
were not exactly the same model. Others had significantly higher or significantly lower 
mileage and I note that some of the mileage on some of the vehicles is set out in kilometres, 
rather than miles. The car with the closest mileage to Mr As is on the market for £4,290, but 
the vehicle is a year younger than his car. After taking account of the adverts and even if 
they reflect the position at the time of the accident, I cant reasonably say they suggest 
Skyfires valuation is unfair. 
With all that in mind, as Skyfires valuation was at the higher end of that suggested by the 
guides, Im satisfied its offer was fair. 
That said, I agree with our investigator that there were delays in Skyfires handling of Mr As 
claim. As an example, I can see that it received information that the repairs to his vehicle 
may cost more than the value of the car. But no action appears to have been taken in 
respect of that information for some time. Taking all of this into account, I agree with our 
investigator that Skyfire will need to pay £200 in total to Mr A to compensate him for those 
delays. 
Putting things right
I require Skyfire to: 
Settle Mr As claim based on a valuation of £3,143; and
Pay a total of £200 to Mr A to compensate him for the customer service issues 
identified above. If Skyfire has already paid £100 to Mr A, it can deduct this amount 
from what it will now owe. 
My final decision
I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to put things right for Mr A as I have set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman