The complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1995 and 1999. Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S applied for a joint mortgage with Lloyds in 1995. At the same time they were 
sold a PPI policy. The policy covered them both against being unable to work due to 
accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. If Mr or Mrs S could not work the PPI policy 
wouldve paid a monthly benefit equivalent to their mortgage repayment plus 25% for up to 
12 months. The cover was split equally between them.
In 1999 Mr and Mrs S increased their mortgage, at the same time the cover provided by the 
policy and the premium increased.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The mortgage was originally applied for and the policy sold to Mr and Mrs S most likely 
during a meeting in 1995. The sale in 1999 also probably took place during a meeting.
Given the time that has passed it isnt surprising that there is very little paperwork available 
from the time of the sale. Where there is limited information, I will make my decision based 
on whats more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what  
both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided the policies were not mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs S have said they unaware they were sold PPI and only found out recently when 
they asked Lloyds if they had ever been sold PPI.
Lloyds has not been able to give us a copy of the mortgage application forms or application 
forms for the PPI. But from experience I think it is likely Mr and Mrs S would have needed to 
have competed some form of application for the insurer. I say this as the policy insurer would 
normally need a declaration that they were eligible for the policy before it could be put in 
place.
DRN-1581081And I note Mr and Mrs S have sent us an illustration of mortgage costs which is dated 4 July 
1995 and includes PPI. That indicates there had been some mention of PPI at that stage.
The Lloyds representative would have recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs S. So I think it 
is likely Lloyds told Mr and Mrs S they should take out the policy, but thats different to 
saying they had to. And I also have to take into account that memories do fade over time, 
and the meetings took place many years ago in 1999 and 1995.
Mr and Mrs S have pointed to the mortgage agreement from 1995 which does not include 
mention of PPI premiums. And they say their old bank statements show they were just 
paying for the mortgage and home insurance but not PPI.
But the PPI premiums would have had to be paid in some way, if not with the mortgage 
repayments then by direct debit. Otherwise the policies would not have been put in place 
and I would not uphold this complaint as Mr and Mrs S would not have suffered any loss.
This type of policy would normally be paid by direct debit separate from the mortgage 
repayment. So if the premiums were not taken with the mortgage repayment, and do not 
show on Mr and Mrs S current account statements then its likely they were taken from 
another account they may have used.
After so many years it isnt possible to say from which account the premiums were paid. But 
in any event the records show the policy was in place from 1995 and was amended in 1999, 
so the monthly premiums must have been paid from some bank account and would have 
appeared on that bank accounts statements for many years.
I accept things could have happened how Mr and Mrs S have described. But I do think it is 
unlikely the policies would both have been set up without Mr and Mrs S agreement and 
without any application form or direct debit instruction having been completed.
So taking everything into account I think it is most likely Mr and Mrs S were told about the 
policies in 1995 and 1999 and chose to take them out knowing they didnt have to. Although 
after so many years I can understand why Mr and Mrs S might not recall this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances in 1995 and 1999, I think that it 
was. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs S were not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For 
example they didnt have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered. And they 
were not in unusual employment situations which might not have been covered. So they 
would have been able to make a claim if they had needed to.
Mr and Mrs S would both have received sick pay from their employers if they could not work. 
But this particular policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay, and for 
up to 12 months, most likely for longer than any employers sick pay would last. So I think Mr 
and Mrs S wouldve found the benefit useful if either of them became too unwell to work.
And if Mr or Mrs S lost their job the monthly benefit would mean they could use any 
redundancy pay for other living costs.
Mr and Mrs S had some savings, but they had chosen to keep those savings intact instead 
of taking a smaller mortgage. And the PPI would have allowed them to keep the savings 
rather than dip into them to pay the mortgage if things went wrong.I dont know what was said during the meetings in 1995 and 1999. Its possible that Lloyds 
didnt give all the information it should have done. But thats not enough to uphold this 
complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mr and Mrs S would have changed their 
minds about buying the policy if they had been given better or clearer information. I cant say 
they would have done.
I say this because from what Ive seen the policies Lloyds recommended were right for them. 
In 1995 Mr and Mrs S were taking on a new and significant financial commitment so I think 
they may have valued the additional security the policy gave them. Ive not seen any 
evidence the policies were unaffordable, so I dont think any clearer or more complete 
information wouldve made them act differently and decline them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman