DRN-4302648
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the drop in value of his pension fund since Forester Life Limited 
(Forester) moved it to a Lifestyling fund in August 2018. He feels that even though this 
happened in order to protect his fund as he got closer to his chosen retirement date this 
hasnt happened. So he feels that Forester Life has mismanaged his fund and he has 
suffered financial loss as a consequence.
What happened
Mr R held a stakeholder pension plan with Forester since 2007. In March 2018 Forester 
placed his plan into a Lifestyle fund in line with the stakeholder regulations which state that 
all stakeholder plans must be lifestyled five years before retirement date. Forester wrote to 
Mr R explaining this had happened and why. The letter also explained which fund the plan 
was moving from and into fund the plan was going.  And it also explained that he could opt 
out of the Lifestyling option if he wanted at any time and remain in the higher risked fund.
Forester has explained that Mr R has not contacted it at any time since this point to opt out 
of the Lifestying option.
In the last few years, the value of Mr Rs pension has dropped by around 10% which has 
caused Mr R to question whether the investment strategy and management of the Lifestyling 
fund was right for him. And he feels he would have been better off had he remained in his 
previous fund.
To rectify this loss he wants Forester to back date the value of his fund to the point before it 
was Lifestyled and pay him what it would have been worth had this not happened.
When Forester looked into Mr Rs complaint it explained that the fund had to be Lifestyled 
at that date in accordance with the regulations mentioned above. It also explained that the 
funds had been affected by events in the political arena over the past few years as well as 
the rise in interest rates. It therefore felt that it hadnt mismanaged the fund. It did however 
offer Mr R £75 for the delays in responding to his complaint.
As Mr R wasnt happy with Foresters response he brought his complaint to this Service 
where it was investigated by one of our investigators. He was of the view the complaint 
couldnt be upheld for broadly the same reasons as Forester.
Mr R didnt accept the assessment so as no agreement could be reached the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken account of relevant law and 
regulations; regulatory rules; guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I can understand why Mr R is frustrated with the drop in value of his pension fund and why 
this would cause him to worry. However, I can only uphold this complaint if I think Forester 
has caused this. And based on everything I have seen in my investigation I dont think it has.
Lifestyling is part of a stakeholder pension and any stakeholder plan must be Lifestyled 
when the member reaches a certain amount of years before their chosen retirement date. In 
Mr Rs case this is five years before this date.
The aim of Lifestyling is to lock in the investment growth which has built up in the pension as 
the member gets close to their retirement date. A lifestyle pension will start by investing a 
larger proportion of the fund into equities which offer the best potential for growth along with 
higher levels of risk. As the member gets older and closer to chosen retirement date the 
pension will automatically start switching into lower risk holdings such as bonds  this is 
Lifestyling. The result is that upon retirement when the member wants to start drawing the 
retirement benefits the pension is invested largely in a mix of cash and bonds and less is 
exposed to the stock market volatility. The aim is to lessen the risk the pension is exposed to 
thereby attempting to retain as much of its value as it can while still offering the potential for 
some growth when markets rise. It offers a greater amount of stability to the pension which is 
more and more important the closer someone gets to retirement. But the pension is still 
invested therefore would still be subject to rises and falls in value.
In the case of Mr Rs pension, as noted above, the Lifestyling of the fund within the pension 
had to happen because this is a requirement of the stakeholder pension regulations. Mr R 
would have known about this when he first started his pension.  And while the aim of the 
Lifestyling process is to protect the fund as much as possible this isnt something that can be 
guaranteed and will be dependent upon the performance of the investment markets which 
no advisory firm can predict. In Mr Rs situation the move to the Lifestyling funds coincided 
with changes in the market due to the economic and political instability due to events such 
as the pandemic and the Russian war. These events affected the markets greatly and in turn 
affected the value of Mr Rs pension, as well as most investment products generally. 
It is worth pointing out that Mr R did have the option to opt out of the Lifestyling if he so 
wished, at any point. The letter from 2018 states this clearly as do subsequent annual letters 
and statements that he would have received. However, Mr R didnt act upon this offer in any 
given year since the Lifestyling took place therefore the pension remained in the Lifestyling 
fund throughout performing in the way that it did. Its reasonable to say that if Mr R was so 
concerned about his pension, he could have stopped the Lifestyling at any point but he 
chose not to do this.
Overall, I havent seen anything to suggest Forester mis managed the pension. I am 
satisfied that Forester had to Lifestyle Mr Rs pension fund and did so in line with the 
relevant regulations. I am also satisfied that the drop in the value of the pension was due to 
changing market conditions over the last few years rather than because Forester mis-
manged the fund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman