DRN-1781728
The complaint
Miss D and Mr K complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc dealt with their 
claim for damage to an underground water supply pipe. Theyre also unhappy that the 
damage caused to their property during the trace and access process hasnt been remedied.
What happened
In March 2019 Miss D and Mr K were notified by their water supplier that their water supply 
pipe was leaking from within their property boundary. They were informed it was their 
responsibility to get the leak fixed. So, they contacted RSA, who underwrites their home 
insurance, to see if they had cover.
RSA told Miss D and Mr K it would instruct a specialist company (C) to attend their property 
to trace the leak and excavate to assess whether they were covered under their policy. Miss 
D and Mr K say RSA informed them it was dealing with many similar claims due to extremes 
of temperature, which had caused underground movement.
When Miss D and Mr K contacted C in order to arrange a suitable time to visit their property, 
they said it informed them it didnt cover their postcode. So, it offered send another company 
(U) to attend instead. 
On 4 April 2019 U attended Miss D and Mr Ks home and traced the water mains supply 
from the internal stop valve to their property boundary. It cut an access hole in the flooring in 
their hallway in efforts to locate the pipe. But it couldnt locate it. So, it dug up a section of 
the garden next to the external boundary to locate the pipe. And it replaced a section of the 
pipe to see if that stopped the leak. However, despite carrying out a cut and cap, further 
testing confirmed there were additional leaks.
Miss D and Mr K stated that U told them that the condition of their pipework was good. It also 
said it would contact their water supplier in order to arrange to install a new water supply 
pipe as it believed the leak was underneath their property. Miss D and Mr K said they were 
assured that the damage caused to their property would be remedied. But they said no one 
ever contacted them to repair the damage U had caused in attempting to trace the leak.
Being dissatisfied with the service theyd received, and the damage caused to their property, 
Miss D and Mr complained. When RSA responded to their complaint it didnt uphold it. It 
refuted that theyd been told their pipework was in good condition. And it said it was 
repudiating their claim as leak had been caused by wear and tear of the underground water 
supply pipe, which was excluded by their policy. So, it wasnt prepared to cover the cost of 
repairing or replacing the damaged pipework. 
Miss D and Mr K didnt accept RSAs reasons for declining their claim and thought it had 
acted unfairly. They were unhappy they hadnt been kept informed as to the status of their 
claim. And they were also dissatisfied that the damage caused to their property by U hadnt 
been remedied. So, they referred their complaint to our service.
An investigator at our service assessed the information provided by Miss D and Mr K and 
RSA and recommended partially upholding this complaint. They werent persuaded that RSA 
had acted fairly in remedying the damage that had been caused to Miss D and Mr Ks 
property by the trace and access work. But they didnt think it had acted unreasonably in 
declining to cover repair or replace the underground water supply pipe. So, they 
recommended that RSA should meet the costs of restoring the areas that had been 
damaged due to the trace and access work.
RSA accepted our investigators decision and agreed to consider the cost of reinstatement to 
areas damaged by U whilst trying to locate the leak. But Miss D and Mr K rejected our 
investigators view of their complaint. So, Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss D and Mr K experienced here. I know they feel 
very strongly about this matter. And I appreciate the reasons why theyve brought their 
complaint to our service. But, while I sympathise with them, the issue that I must determine 
is whether I think RSA acted fairly and reasonably in how it decided to settle their claim. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Miss D and Mr K and 
RSA for the level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all 
the information provided and, I havent specifically referred to a point that Miss D and Mr K 
or RSA have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I 
think are the key issues, which is an approach that reflects the informal nature of this 
service.
Its accepted by Miss D, Mr K and RSA that the costs in restoring the areas damaged by the 
trace and access work will be met. So, Im not going to comment on this within this decision. 
Instead, Ill focus on whether I think RSA acted unfairly in declining Miss D and Mr Ks claim 
for the repair or replacement of their damaged pipework.
In considering this part of Miss D and Mr Ks complaint Ive carefully reviewed the terms of 
their policy with RSA, the inspection reports and photographs of the damaged pipework. 
Miss D and Mr K said U informed them their pipework was in good condition. But U and RSA 
deny this comment was made. And theres no mention of the condition of the pipework being 
described as in a good state of repair in the evidence Ive seen. Im know this will disappoint 
Miss D and Mr K but I havent seen enough to persuade me that they were informed the 
condition of their pipework was good. 
The photographs Ive had sight of show the damaged pipework is an unprotected 
underground copper pipe. RSA said the pipe ought to have been protected from external 
influences by a PVC coating or protective sheath. However, the pipe is bare. 
Its clear from the photographs that the condition of the pipe is poor and that it has 
deteriorated over time. I think this was recognised by U during its inspection. I say this 
because U informed RSA that despite carrying out a cut and cap of the pipe further testing 
confirmed there were additional leaks. This supports the suggestion that the pipe was 
affected by wear and tear and that, due to its condition, it couldnt be fixed as to do so would 
have, most likely, caused more leaks.  U reported that the pipework had been damaged due to wear and tear. Exposed metal pipes 
deteriorate gradually over time and, as Ive already commented, the photographs Ive seen 
support Us opinion on the cause of damage and show deterioration of the damaged pipe. 
So, I think RSA had clear evidence to show that the cause of damage was wear and tear 
here.
I can see that Miss D and Mr Ks policy excludes loss or damage caused by wear and tear. 
This is in common with most home insurance policies because insurance is intended to 
cover the unforeseen. And something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
I therefore dont think RSAs decision to decline Miss D and Mr Ks damaged pipe claim on 
the basis of wear and tear was unreasonable. 
I can see RSA thought carefully about whether the damaged pipe could be covered as 
accidental damage. However, for a claim to be settled under this clause it must be shown 
that there was sudden, unexpected and visible damage which had not been caused on 
purpose.
The evidence here persuades me that the condition of Miss D and Mr Ks pipe has been 
deteriorating gradually. So, it cant be said to be sudden and unexpected. It follows that I 
cant ask fairly RSA to cover the replacement of the damaged pipe under the accidental 
damage clause of Miss D and Mr Ks policy.
Finally, Miss D and Mr K told our service they experienced a delay in finding out whether 
RSA was prepared to meet their claim. And they said they had to chase its decision on 
several occasions. Ive considered the claim notes RSA provided carefully and, like our 
investigator, Im satisfied that as soon as it was aware of the cause of the leak it promptly 
informed Miss D and Mr K that it wasnt prepared to cover the cost of repairing or replacing 
their damaged pipe. So, I wont be directing it to pay any compensation.
Putting things right
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that, in declining to pay Miss D 
and Mr Ks damaged pipe claim, RSA acted within the terms of its policy. And I dont think it 
would be fair to ask it to pay this claim. However, like our investigator, I think RSA should 
meet the costs of restoring the areas that were damaged due to the trace and access work 
undertaken at Miss D and Mr Ks property  as its agreed to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve this complaint, I require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to meet the costs of restoring the areas that were 
damaged due to the trace and access work undertaken at Miss D and Mr Ks property.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman