DRN-4090707
The complaint
Mr S complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited declined his claim on his 
motor insurance policy following the theft of his car. He wants it to pay the full value of his 
car. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was stolen, and he made a claim on his policy. Watford initially indicated that it 
would accept the claim and made an offer in settlement. But it then decided to ask for further 
information to validate the claim. 
It came to light that the car had had its tracker removed some months before the theft. 
Watford said Mr S gave conflicting information about this. The policy required any security 
devices to be fully operational at the date of theft. And so Watford decided to decline the 
claim. When Mr S complained, it said there had been delays in the claim, but these didnt 
change the outcome.  
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr S 
should have made Watford aware that the car had a tracker device installed. He also thought 
Mr S had given conflicting accounts of when the device had been removed. The tracker 
wasnt operational. And so he thought Watford had declined the claim in keeping with the 
policys terms and conditions.
Ms S replied that the tracker wasnt fitted in the car but was a portable device. Mr S asked 
for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. Watford relied on the following 
policy term found in Section 2 on page 14 of the policy booklet to decline the claim:
What is not covered;
Loss of or damage to Your Car or Accessories, whilst Your Car is left unattended, arising 
from Theft, attempted Theft, malicious damage or Vandalism when:
 Alarms, immobilisers and tracking devices are not fully operational or switched on when 
Your Car is left unattended.
I think this is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or 
unreasonable. And I think its sufficiently clearly set out in the policy wording for Watford to 
reasonably rely on it to decline a claim. 
Mr S hadnt told Watford that the car had a tracker when he took out the policy. But I think it 
was for Mr S to be aware of any modifications made to the car and to let Watford know about 
them. And I think Mr S was aware before the theft took place that the car had a tracking 
device fitted. 
This is because when he first reported the theft, Mr S told the police that the car had an 
after-market tracker fitted but he had removed this from the car three months before the theft 
to recharge the battery. Mr S provided us with a receipt to show that the cars previous 
owner had bought an after-market tracking device. 
Mr S later gave other, conflicting accounts about the tracker. He told Watfords claims 
investigators that the car didnt have a tracker. He told us it had been removed by the 
previous owner from beneath the car some weeks before the theft and he had been unaware 
of it beforehand. And he also told us the tracker had been removed before he took 
ownership of the car. 
Given the conflicting explanations, I think it was fair and reasonable for Watford to rely on 
what Mr S had told the police as this account was the closest to the theft. So Im satisfied 
that the car had a tracking device, but it was clearly not operational at the time of the theft. 
And Mr S hadnt told Watford that the tracker had been removed. So I think Mr S was in 
breach of the policys terms and conditions. 
The relevant regulations state that an insurer can only decline a consumers claim due to a 
breach of policy condition if its material to the loss. And Im satisfied that an operational 
tracking device would make it easier to locate and recover a stolen car and apprehend the 
thieves, although it may not prevent the actual theft. 
So Im satisfied that the lack of an operational tracking device was material to the theft. And 
Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable, and in keeping with the relevant regulations, for 
Watford to decline the claim for this breach of the policy conditions. 
Mr S also complained about delays in the claim and that he was given conflicting information 
about the cars valuation. I can see that Watford could have considered Mr Ss claim more 
promptly. But I think this and the changes in valuation havent caused Mr S any loss as it 
declined his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman