The complaint
Mrs O and Miss O complain about how Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has set up 
two savings accounts which they both shouldve been trustees of.
What happened
In 2011, Mrs O and Miss O opened savings accounts with Halifax for two of Mrs Os other 
daughters  Miss Os sisters. They wanted to be trustees on the accounts and for them to be 
set up so that either of them could sign for withdrawals. This is what they believed had been 
done as each of their names were shown in the passbooks for the accounts. 
And over the years, both Mrs O and Miss O were able to carry out withdrawals from the 
accounts at their local branch. However, when Mrs O tried to take out some money from one 
of the accounts in a different branch, she was told that she couldnt make the withdrawal. 
This was because, although Mrs Os name was handwritten onto the front cover of the 
passbook, she wasnt actually set up on Halifaxs computer systems. Only Miss O was 
shown as the trustee. 
Miss O complained. She said Mrs O and her sister had been left without access to the 
money in the account, and shed had to make a separate trip to a branch to make the 
withdrawal. She said, if Mrs O wasnt party to the account, then she shouldnt have been 
allowed to withdraw the money she did, so Halifax should refund what shed been allowed to 
take out.
Halifax said Mrs O was on the account passbook and it held her signature to allow her to 
make withdrawals, but the account had been set up incorrectly on its systems. It couldnt 
establish why this had happened because of the time since it was set up and as there had 
been a change of systems since the account was opened. It said the account should be 
closed down because of this issue, but Mrs O could open another account if she wished. 
Halifax offered to make a payment of £300 for their inconvenience and said it would cover 
any reasonable expenses Miss O had incurred. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said Halifax had accepted that a 
mistake had been made, but it couldnt explain why this was as both Miss O and Mrs Os 
signatures were given for the account, but only Miss Os details were set up on its computer 
systems. The investigator acknowledged the upset and trouble Mrs O and Miss O had been 
caused, and she said that theyd been told Mrs O could be added onto the existing account 
when that wasnt right. And to recognise this, the investigator thought the £300 Halifax had 
already offered was fair. The investigator didnt think Halifax should be required to refund the 
withdrawals Mrs O had been able to make, as theyd confirmed these were made for 
Miss Os sisters, as theyd wanted. 
DRN-1046506Mrs O and Miss O didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that this situation has caused a great deal of worry and upset for Mrs O and 
Miss O, particularly as they found out that these two savings accounts hadnt been set up as 
theyd believed for a number of years.
The inside covers of the accounts passbooks show both Miss O and Mrs Os names  
Miss Os is printed and Mrs Os is hand-written. Because of the passing of time, it cant now 
be known why this was. Miss O has been clear that the intention was for both her and Mrs O 
to be trustees, and that either of them shouldve been able to sign to authorise a withdrawal. 
And I understand that Mrs Os signature was held to allow this. 
The mistake seems to be with how the account details were entered onto Halifaxs system. 
Mrs O was able to make withdrawals as her name was on the passbook, and she was 
known to the branch staff.
Taking everything into account, I dont think this mistake means that Halifax should be 
required to refund the withdrawals Mrs O had been allowed to make, when these were for 
the benefit of her daughter who the account was held in trust for. And this was what both 
Mrs O and Miss O wanted  that they both had the ability to make withdrawals from each of 
the accounts. 
Halifax has offered to pay £300 to recognise the distress and upset Mrs O and Miss O have 
been caused by this issue. And I think this represents a fair settlement for this complaint in 
the particular circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should pay Mrs O and Miss O 
£300, as it has already offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Miss O 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman