DRN-3905734
The complaint
Mr T complains about the price quoted by West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) to renew his 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T received a quote of £403.28 to renew his policy, so he called West Bay to complain as 
this was higher than the £273.49 premium he paid the previous year. During the call, West 
Bay discussed the price for different excess amounts. West Bay then wrote to Mr T to say 
theyd resolved the issue. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T. He thought West Bay hadnt treated Mr T 
unfairly in relation to the pricing. Mr T disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr T will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Ive looked at the renewal quote sent to Mr T and this is just under £130 more than what he 
paid the previous year. The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance 
pricing isnt to tell a business what they should charge or to determine a price for the 
insurance they offer. This is a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can 
look to see whether we agree a consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything 
which demonstrates theyve been treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone 
has been treated unfairly, we can set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
Ive listened to the call Mr T made to West Bay and the call handler explains theyve paid out 
more due to the storms and floods which have occurred. The call handler explains this will 
affect the price of premiums for all customers  even those who havent made a claim. The 
call handler explains they could reduce it if Mr T makes any alterations such as changing the 
excess. The call handler explains if he ran a quote for a new customer it wont be cheaper 
than the quote given to Mr T  and they only quote one price. The call handler then 
discusses a range of excesses and what the price of the premium would be. For the highest 
excess, the premium was less than the price quoted to Mr T at renewal. 
Mr T says he suspects he would be given a lower price if he was a new customer and the 
call handler explains the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) brought new rules into place 
which means they cant charge an existing customer more than they would charge a new 
customer. 
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. I can see part of the reason for the change in price was brought about by new rules 
for general insurance pricing introduced by the FCA in January 2022. They apply to motor 
and buildings insurance only and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules 
when offering renewals. The rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals generated 
from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mr T was offered his renewal by West Bay, 
so they did need to follow these at the time. And, given theyve done this, I cant say theyve 
acted unfairly if this has resulted in a change in price.  
A large reason for the change is in response to the FCA pricing rules and West Bay taking 
the steps they needed to, allowing them to be compliant with these. But they have also 
explained that the change in price was brought about because of a number of claims theyd 
paid out for storms and floods.
Mr T may feel this is unfair because he hasnt made a claim for this. But West Bay, like all 
insurers, will review their approach to risks at different points and this will result in changes 
to the premium. They have explained this was a change across all their policies as they 
changed their approach. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the 
change and Mr T hasnt been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to apply these 
factors when calculating a price.  
In addition to this, its not clear when Mr T first took out his policy with West Bay but I can 
see they did, in their renewal quote, remind Mr T that he could shop around to see if he 
could get a better price. If there have been at least four renewals, then section 6.5 of the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business to provide 
specific wording about the benefits of shopping around. So, if there have been at least four 
renewals then, as well as treating Mr T fairly, I think theyve also acted in line with 
requirements set out under ICOBS. 
I can see, when Mr T complained about the price, West Bay were able to offer him a 
cheaper price. But, this was following alterations to the policy  in this case, applying a 
higher excess. A business shouldnt offer a price higher than the ENBP and Im satisfied 
West Bay havent done that here. So, Im satisfied the cheaper price quoted didnt arise out 
of West Bay correcting a mistake theyd made  but because of changes they made to the 
policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman