DRN-3191739
The complaint
Mr M has complained Go Car Credit Limited wont refund him for various repairs he made to 
his car to make it roadworthy.
What happened
Mr M took out a hire purchase agreement with Go Car Credit in January 2020 for a car. The 
car cost £6,470 and had 72,946 miles on the clock. Mr M paid £50 as a deposit and took out 
credit for the remaining amount. Mr M was due to repay £12,900 over a four year period.
Mr M had problems with the car as soon as he took ownership. Thered been drug 
equipment left in the car so he was concerned about the safety of his children. The 
windscreen was cracked and the front console was damaged. Mr M got repairs carried out 
and paid £776.70 for those.
Hed also got in touch with Go Car Credit to ask for their permission to carry out various 
upgrading and cosmetic changes to the vehicle (including bumper lamps and other 
changes). Go Car Credit told him he didnt need their permission. Mr M got various pieces of 
work done. This cost him more than £536. Later invoices provided in February 2021 added a 
further £1,194 to this.
Mr M also realised there was structural damage to the car around the bumper. He believed 
the dealers had misled him and wanted to get these issues sorted. Mr M got a quotation for 
the works needed. This came to over £2,540. This didnt, however, explain when these 
issues had arisen. Go Car Credit asked Mr M to get an independent report carried out which 
could help to identify this.
He was unhappy with this as he believed the quotation was robust. He brought his complaint 
to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator arranged with Go Car Credit to have an independent report carried out. This 
confirmed the car had sustained moderate rear impact damage which led to the cars 
structural integrity being compromised. The independent report also identified these 
problems were present when Mr M bought the car.
Our investigator believed this evidence confirmed Go Car Credit needed to put things right. 
As Mr M was reliant on a car he wanted an exchange of car to be sorted. This was agreed 
by our investigator. After some delay the dealer located an alternative car. However Go Car 
Credit wouldnt offer Mr M a further credit agreement as they said he failed their credit 
checks.
Further attempts by the dealer to offer limited repairs and by Go Car Credit to accept 
rejection of the car were negotiated. Mr M refused to accept rejection. He felt this 
disadvantaged him and left him without a car (to which hed made considerable investment).
Go Car Credit confirmed Mr M had made no payments towards his existing credit 
agreement. Mr M got the car successfully through a MOT in February 2021. He believed this 
had only happened after further repairs by him which cost considerable funds. Mr M quoted 
thousands of pounds.
As no agreement could be reached, Mr Ms complaint was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
In the interim Mr Ms car was involved in an accident and written off. Go Car Credit has 
confirmed Mr Ms credit agreement is closed and there is no outstanding balance payable.
I completed a provisional decision on 19 October 2021 based on the new information 
available to me. I didnt uphold the complaint as Go Car Credit had now closed the credit 
agreement.
Mr M provided us with details of searches he believes they should not have been 
completing. He thought this was having an impact on his credit record. I raised this issue 
with Go Car Credit on his behalf.
I now have all I need to complete a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. What 
follows is similar to the reasoning in my provisional decision.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. This also reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators views of 25 January and 9 April 
2021. This covers what happened in detail. I wont be repeating all this information again but 
I have taken it into account.
Mr M has also provided us with numerous emails and invoices during the period of his 
complaint. I can reassure him I have considered everything hes provided.
So, for example, Im aware Mr M has raised issues about Go Car Credit rejecting him for 
credit. He doesnt believe Go Car Credit carried out the credit search they said they did or 
had a basis for rejecting his application. The fact is that Mr M had made no payments 
towards his existing hire purchase agreement. So I dont think its irregular that Go Car 
Credits credit risk department were unwilling to offer him a further agreement. A credit 
search wouldnt have been needed for that.
Recently Mr M has given us evidence to show numerous searches have been carried out. I 
raised this issue with Go Car Credit. Theyve provided evidence that these searches were all 
conducted by credit brokers with Mr Ms consent and cover his applications more recently to 
finance a new car.The key issue I need to decide is whether its fair and reasonable for Go Car Credit to 
reimburse Mr M his costs of upgrading the car and getting it back on the road this year.
To assist in stating what I believe is fair and reasonable, I want to look at the complaint and 
confirm what decision I would have made at earlier stages throughout this complaints 
history.  
Original complaint
There had been an earlier complaint covering the state of the car when he first got it. An 
invoice for £776.70 for costs in February 2020 was shared with Go Car Credit. They 
confirmed in May 2020 the dealer would reimburse him. Im not convinced this was fully 
done. But in any case based on what I decide later, I dont believe I need to look at this 
further now. Go Car Credit said they would also pay Mr M £100 in compensation. Mr M says 
this was never received. 
Mr M first contacted Go Car Credit about the structural issues with his car in June 2020. 
Hed provided them with a quotation of what was needed to repair the car. I appreciate Go 
Car Credit wanted to make sure these issues were present at point of sale so an 
independent report was always going to be required. This report from August 2020 (which I 
believe wasnt conducted face-to-face) confirms the car wouldnt pass a MOT and the 
damage existed at the time the car was sold to Mr M.
At that stage the right thing to do was to allow Mr M to reject the car. I think the repairs 
estimated to cost more than £2,540 would have been uneconomic in terms of the value of 
the car. I know Mr M has stated the specialists whod quoted for the work would ensure 
these were effective and the car would be safe to drive afterwards.
Ive also considered that by then Mr M had spent more than £1,730 on works to the car. He 
believed Go Car Credit had told him that he could proceed with cosmetic changes and 
upgrades to the car and I can see why. I dont believe Go Car Credit will argue against this 
impression based on the call they had with Mr M on 22 May 2020.
However whilst the works may have added to the overall value of the car, I believe quite a 
few of these are cosmetic. Not all of the invoices are cosmetic as I can see, for example, a 
new starter motor needed to be fitted. 
Ive also noted Go Car Credits comments that some of Mr Ms invoices relate to cleaning, 
buffing and painting which they believe is about maintenance rather than the overall 
condition of the car. That would generally be the case but its clear that when Mr M got the 
car it was left in quite a disgusting state.
Im aware Mr M hadnt paid any money toward his agreement by June 2020 when he 
realised how damaged the car was. Hed had use of the car for five months so I believe 
should have paid four monthly instalments  £1,338.55  to reflect his fair usage.
Therefore in November 2020, Id have asked Go Car Credit to:
collect the car; 
cancel the credit agreement;
ensure £776.70 had been repaid to Mr M (and if not repay anything outstanding);
repay £50 deposit along with 8% simple interest; repay Mr M the difference between £1,730 (costs of repairs) and £1,338.55 (what he 
should have paid to Go Car Credit in payments); and
remove any negative data from Mr Ms credit record.
Following first settlement agreement between Go Car Credit and Mr M
Our investigator believed an exchange would be the right thing to organise. This certainly 
reflected Mr Ms need to have a workable car for his job which is more than 50 miles away 
from his home. But there are frequently issues which make a like-for-like exchange 
extremely difficult to manage. In this case Go Car Credit wouldnt provide Mr M with a further 
credit agreement.
I dont dispute a further new credit agreement would have been required as the hire 
purchase agreement must relate to the relevant car. Its disappointing this was never made 
clear to Mr M.
Subsequent settlement discussions
Go Car Credit made an offer in February 2021 to allow rejection of the car, write off all 
arrears, remove negative data from his credit record and pay Mr M £300 in compensation. 
By this stage Go Car Credit  who I should confirm are the legal owners of the car  were 
concerned about the safety aspects of the car and were keen to discourage further usage.
As the car was not in working order its not completely true to say Mr M had run up arrears of 
£2,845 as I believe only five monthly payments should have been made.
Mr M subsequently rejected this offer. By this stage the car had completed a successful 
MOT. The MOT reflected additional mileage since the independent report. So I think its 
more than likely Mr M had used the car which had now completed about 8,000 miles since 
hed taken possession. This is far in excess of the commitment Mr M made when insuring 
the car in February 2020 which stated an annual mileage of 1,000.
Im sure further repairs must have been carried out but Mr M was willing to accept payment 
for a replacement bumper and other costs. Ive not seen invoices relating to these aspects.
Mr M rejected Go Car Credits offer of keeping his car in safe storage whilst our service still 
considered his complaint.
Current situation
In May 2021 Mr Ms car was involved in an accident. The insurance company has declared it 
a total loss. Go Car Credit has confirmed Mr Ms account with them is now closed and there 
is nothing outstanding they are expecting him to pay.
Thats not the case the other way around as Mr M still requires reimbursement of his 
expenses as confirmed above.
Mr M had completed more than 8,000 miles by the time the car was written off. This is 
probably  and I accept this is not an exact science  about average annual mileage. In 
Mr Ms case he was expecting to have annual mileage greatly in excess of this if he was 
driving to work more than 50 miles away. However the last year hasnt been average in 
anyones book.
So I have balanced all these different aspects and consider it fair and reasonable for Mr M to 
have paid Go Car Credit at least nine months worth of monthly repayments. That works out at £2,409.39. I say nine months as the first five months of the agreement and the four 
months from February to June 2021 when I believe the car was being used.
Go Car Credit has not asked Mr M to repay this amount. This more than offsets the costs 
Ive seen Mr M evidence to us. This also covers any payment of compensation which I also 
feel they should have provided to him. Like our investigator I think its fair Mr M pays his own 
insurance and road tax costs.
Go Car Credit has also confirmed that theyve removed any negative data from Mr Ms credit 
record.
I believe where things now stand it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask Go Car Credit to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against Go 
Car Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman