DRN-3662706
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) recommended he invest in 
unsuitable funds that werent within the risk he was willing to take.
What happened
Mr C has told us that his first contact with Portal was in late 2013, and that this contact was 
initiated by Portal. At the time Mr C held a personal pension with Zurich, was aged 55 and 
was living with his partner.
Portal took steps to ascertain Mr Cs financial position and aspirations prior to giving him 
advice. During this process, a number of documents were completed, including a fact-find, 
an income and expenditure statement, and an attitude to risk questionnaire.
The fact-find, completed on 17 December 2013, recorded that Mr C was employed full time 
earning £17,000 each year (around £1,200 each month net), lived in rented accommodation, 
and had no savings or assets. This document also recorded that Mr C was £2,000 in arrears 
for water rates and had a payday loan of between £600-700 which he paid off and renewed 
each month. It also stated that he had a personal pension valued at £20,778, with a transfer 
value of £20,194 due to a market value reduction (MVR) of £584, and no other pension 
plans. The selected retirement age was listed as 67 years old.
In answer to fact-finding questions regarding Mr Cs plans and funding for retirement, the 
document records that he could take no more than 25% tax free cash, and that he was 
prepared to leave the fund alone until retirement. It was also noted that Mr C was concerned 
about stock and equity volatility, but not liquidity.  
Mr Cs income and expenditure statement was recorded jointly with his partner. Their joint 
net income each month was £2,100 and their expenditure totalled £2,012, leaving a 
disposable income of £88. This recorded expenditure included the £600-700 to repay Mr Cs 
recurring payday loans.
The findings from the attitude to risk questionnaire were that Mr C was a balanced investor. 
In January 2014 Portal advised Mr C to transfer his personal pension into a Novia self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). This allowed Mr C to access a tax-free cash sum. Portal 
advised that the remaining funds be invested in nine different investment strategies 
(including cash). Four of these investments, just under 50% of the overall funds, were noted 
to be Secured Bonds. The bonds had investment terms between five and seven years. It 
seems the remaining funds were invested in liquid regulated investments and cash.
Portals suitability report dated 2 January 2014 confirmed that Mr Cs personal pension had a 
transfer value of £20,194 after an MVR was applied, and that Mr C could take tax free cash 
of up £5,048. The suitability report also explained the recommended Secured Bonds were 
fixed term investments, meaning they could not be bought and sold daily and, as such, they 
would be considered illiquid. 
Various charges were also listed, including an initial adviser fee of 5% for the advice, a 1% 
annual review fee, and other pension provider charges, including a 0.5% annual 
management charge. In relation to this, the report stated, Overall, this strategy may cost 
more than your existing arrangement. Whilst the intention is that this will be more than 
compensated for by the increased growth of your pension fund this cannot be guaranteed.
Portals advice was accepted, and the SIPP was established in January 2014. Mr C 
accessed his full amount of tax-free cash, which was £5,048. 
In 2015 Mr C applied to withdraw a taxable lump sum from his SIPP, although records 
provided to us are not conclusive on this point. We do know that the annual pension review 
report of 20 September 2016 confirmed that the total taxable sum withdrawn since the plans 
inception was £8,491.61. This left a fund value of £7,213.97 as of 8 September 2016. 
At this time, the percentage of the SIPP invested in the four recommended Secured Bonds 
was just under 96%, with only 4.35% remaining, in cash. The 2016 report also made 
reference to a recommendation to switch a proportion of the invested funds into new funds 
on the basis it would perform better. However, it isnt clear exactly what was recommended 
or actioned, as later in the same report it is stated that Portal werent recommending any 
changes.
The 17 March 2017 annual pension review report noted the fund was valued at £7,181.93 on 
27 February 2017. It said this represented a growth of 3.06% after charges. The percentage 
of the SIPP invested in the four Secured Bonds was now just over 96%. No changes to the 
funds were recommended. The cash value had reduced to 3.92%.  
Mr Cs complaint about the suitability of the advice he was given was made on 22 
September 2020. Mr C said his complaint to Portal was prompted by his realisation that his 
investments were high risk, whereas he recalled a lengthy conversation with Portal in which 
he said he wasnt a high-risk taker. After speaking with Portal on various occasions, and 
receiving what he deemed to be conflicting information, Mr C engaged in further research 
and came across online reviews that made him concerned. 
Portal provided a final response letter saying that the complaint had been made too late. Mr 
C was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this Service. A jurisdiction view and 
subsequent jurisdiction decision were issued finding that the complaint was brought in time 
and that this Service could consider it. 
Our investigator then considered the merits of Mr Cs complaint. He found that Mr Cs 
attitude to risk shouldve been deemed cautious, rather than balanced, and that the advice to 
invest in high-risk funds was unsuitable in any case. So, our investigator said that Portal 
should compensate Mr C by putting him back into the position he shouldve been in, and 
should also pay Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Portal didnt accept our investigators view or provide any response. As such, Mr Cs 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision on the merits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out in my previous jurisdiction decision on this case, Ive not seen anything to make 
me think Mr C ought reasonably to have been aware he had cause for complaint prior to September 2017. As Mr C brought his complaint within 3 years of this date, Im satisfied Mr 
C brought this complaint in time and that its one I can consider. 
Moving on to the merits of this complaint, I will first consider the advice to transfer Mr Cs 
personal pension to a SIPP, before going on to consider the specific investment strategies 
that were recommended to him.
In accordance with the regulations, standards and industry practice at the time, Portal had to 
take reasonable steps to understand Mr Cs financial situation and investment objectives in 
order to ensure recommendations were suitable, as well as acting in accordance with Mr Cs 
best interests.
Furthermore, in 2009 the regulator published considerations for pension switching. One of 
the key issues the FCA identified was that consumers shouldnt be advised to switch to a 
more expensive pension than their existing one(s) without good reason.
Mr Cs recommended SIPP had an annual management charge of 0.5% which wasnt an 
unreasonable amount. However, Portal also charged an initial fee of 5% which had a 
significant impact on the value of the fund, as well as an ongoing advice charge of 1%.
We have not been provided with the underlying fund or product charges for the various 
investments, or a clear comparison between the ceding personal pension scheme and the 
recommended SIPP and investment strategy. The warning in the suitability report that the 
strategy may cost more than Mr Cs existing arrangement is insufficient.
Unfortunately, Portal are no longer responding to requests for information about this case, 
and so I must make my findings on the limited information available. Overall, I think its likely 
the total charges associated with the SIPP wouldve been higher than the personal pension 
Mr C was transferring from, especially when taking into consideration Portals initial charge 
of 5%, their ongoing advice charge of 1%, and the MVR which was applied to the pension 
switch, further reducing its fund value by £584. 
However, Ive weighed this likely higher cost against Mr Cs financial situation at the time. Mr 
C has told us that, when the advice was given, he had a strong and clear need to access 
tax-free cash from his pension, as he was trapped in a cycle of pay day loan debt. The tax-
free cash enabled him to break this cycle and, in his own words, get back on his feet. Also, 
he has told us that he was self-employed at the time, and the tax-free cash was required to 
support his finances. 
Although it doesnt appear Portal made any attempt to establish whether Mr C had any other 
means to reduce his debts or raise these funds, Mr C himself has made it clear he didnt. So, 
despite the costs described above, its likely the recommendation to transfer his personal 
pension to a SIPP and access the tax-free cash sum was suitable for Mr C. 
 
Ill now turn my attention to the specific investment advice, which is the primary focus of Mr 
Cs complaint.  
Portals review of Mr Cs attitude to risk included a profiling questionnaire in which Mr C had 
to answer fifteen questions. This resulted in Mr C being deemed a balanced risk investor.
However, Mr Cs answers to the questionnaire suggested otherwise. Mr C agreed with 
statements that indicated he had little experience of investing in stocks and shares, and that 
he generally looked for safer investments, even if it meant lower returns. He also agreed with 
statements that said he was concerned about the volatility of stock market investments and 
generally preferred bank deposits to riskier investments. Furthermore, Mr C disagreed that he found investment matters easy to understand or that he 
felt comfortable investing in the stock market. He also indicated he was unwilling to take 
substantial financial risk to earn substantial returns, or that hed rather take a chance with 
high-risk investments than increase his amount of savings. These answers suggest Mr Cs 
attitude to risk could be better described as cautious than balanced.
I also note that the risk profile questionnaire Portal used appears to have been based on one 
used by a different product provider. The original seemed to have 12 questions, and so it 
appears that Portal added a further three relating to property investments.  Mr Cs answers 
to these three questions depart from the pattern that can be seen in his other answers, in as 
much as he agreed he felt comfortable investing in property, and disagreed that he had little 
experience of such investments. 
Mr C was a retail investor, with no investment experience or savings. Furthermore, this was 
his only pension, and he had no other provision for retirement, which suggests his capacity 
for loss was low. Given this, and given his generally cautious responses regarding his 
attitude to risk elsewhere in the questionnaire, Portal shouldve taken steps to probe and 
clarify his answers to these three questions, especially as there is nothing to suggest that Mr 
C had any experience of investing in property. Instead, these answers appear to have been 
used as the basis for recommending high-risk unregulated bonds.
The suitability report refers to funds from these unregulated bonds being used to finance the 
building of new holiday villas, and the completion of a hotel, and being secured on US 
residential property, and other holiday resorts. Despite the funds recommended having little 
or no previous investment history, they were predicted to provide an income between 11-
15%. Most of the bonds also carried exchange rate risk. And, as Portal pointed out, they 
were illiquid as soon as the funds were invested. 
A lot can go wrong with this type of investment, and the potential for significant losses is 
greater than investing in pooled funds in a wide range of quoted securities and asset 
classes. In summary, they carried significant risk and - as unregulated high-risk investments 
- they were unsuitable for investors with a cautious (or even a balanced) attitude to risk. 
Furthermore, the high proportion of Mr Cs pension fund invested in these unregulated 
Secured Bonds at the outset (just under 50%) wouldve been unsuitable for a customer in Mr 
Cs financial situation, even if he had a high tolerance for risk. 
I also note the regulators comments on unregulated investments from July 2010, which 
warned about investment schemes that share many of the same characteristics as the 
bonds recommended to Mr C (for example, illiquidity, foreign currency risk and valuation 
difficulties). In such cases, the regulator indicated that it was good practice to limit client 
exposure to unregulated funds to 5% or less of their portfolios. 
In summary, the investments Portal recommended were unsuitable, and exposed Mr C to far 
more risk than appropriate. These bonds were unregulated and certainly werent secure. He 
didnt have the capacity for loss these investments carried. Instead, suitable advice would 
have been for him to invest in regulated mainstream funds. Had Portal given suitable advice, 
I think its likely Mr C would have followed it.
Therefore, I think a fair and reasonable way to compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice is 
to use a benchmark based on an investment strategy in line with his circumstances and 
attitude to risk.This matter has also caused Mr C worry and concern, and so Portal should pay Mr C £300 
compensate his for this.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr C's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
Portal should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr C wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr C £300 for concern and worry caused by the loss of his pension fund.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr C asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio Status Benchmark From (start To (end Additional name date) date) interest
Novia SIPP Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr C provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing 
the receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Novia SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
The Novia SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Novia SIPP to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the illiquid 
assets, or this is something that Mr C can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr C an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the Novia SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr C's 
circumstances and objectives. It doesnt mean that Mr C would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. Its the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to the capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Ellie Clare
Ombudsman
