DRN-2629272
The complaint
Mr W has complained that the broker Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt highlight to him that a 
business laptop wouldnt be covered under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W accidentally damaged his employers laptop while working from home and he made a 
claim under his home insurance policy. Mr Ws claim was rejected by the insurer as he didnt 
own the laptop. 
Sainsburys Bank sold the policy to Mr W. Mr W was unhappy that Sainsburys provided a 
link to their website for Mr W to read important information about his policy. He didnt think it 
had done enough to tell him that the laptop wouldnt be covered under the policy. He said if it 
had, he would have made arrangements to have additional cover for it.
Sainsburys said that as Mr W had no insurable interest in the laptop, it didnt need to 
highlight this in the policy wording. It said as Mr W didnt own the laptop, he couldnt make a 
claim for it under his policy. It said that as the laptop belonged to his employer, they may 
look to claim against their business insurance if possible. 
Mr W remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought 
Sainsburys had acted reasonably. This was a non-advised sale. And Sainsburys had 
provided a link to the policy wording on their website which explained that business 
equipment was excluded from his personal possessions cover. So the investigator didnt 
recommend Mr Ws complaint should be upheld.
Mr W didnt agree. So hed like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys as the broker is responsible for arranging and administering the policy. Any 
decision about whether to accept or reject a claim is decided by the insurer of the policy. 
Sainsburys didnt give advice about the suitability of the policy when it was sold to Mr W. But 
in any event, we expect a broker to be clear, fair and not misleading. It isnt possible for all 
terms and conditions of a policy to be highlighted as important. As Mr W chose for his policy 
documents to be accessible online when he bought the policy, I think Sainsburys did 
enough by providing a link for Mr W to access his policy wording. 
His policy said that any article used for business purposes isnt covered for accidental 
damage. But in any event - as the item didnt belong to Mr W - it wasnt covered under his 
personal policy as he doesnt have an insurable interest in the item. His employer as the 
owner, does.
I understand Mr W will be disappointed. But I dont think Sainsburys has done anything 
wrong. So Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman