DRN-2331477
The complaint
Mr A complains about the transfer of his SIPP to Interactive Investor Services Limited (II) 
as it was transferred in cash only rather than in cash and in specie.
What happened
Mr A said he filled out an online transfer form to transfer his SIPP to II. But the transfer to II 
went ahead without him downloading and signing a copy. As he hadnt downloaded and 
signed, he didnt think it would go through. He said hed asked several times about 
transferring investments in specie but didnt receive a reply. He hadnt made a final decision 
to transfer because he wanted to confirm whether the funds would be transferred in specie. 
For that reason he hadnt printed and signed a copy of the form. The transfer in cash meant 
he didnt have enough to re-buy the same number of units as he had before and had to 
rebalance his portfolio. He said had it not been possible to transfer the funds in specie he 
would have remained with his existing provider. He said that due to the time out of the 
market he was £3,500 to £4,000 worse off.
II said it received Mr As online transfer request on 6 December 2019. The request form 
gave the option to transfer everything as cash or investments or a mix. The form indicated 
cash only and several other forms that Mr A part completed over previous days also 
requested cash only transfers. As this was an online request no actual signature was 
needed as by submitting the form Mr A gave agreement to proceed. A copy of the form was 
available to him online. It also checked other correspondence and noted that in early 
December he had sent a secure message asking confirmation that the transfer will be 
transferred in specie. It didnt seem the question had been answered. But it said it had 
followed Mr As instruction on the form and it hadnt made an error. 
The investigator didnt think II had made any error in handling Mr As transfer request. She 
said that because the form received by II indicated he wanted to transfer in cash. She noted 
the points about the absence of a wet signature but didnt agree that II had made an error by 
processing the transfer. As it was an online transfer no signature was needed, and 
submission of the form was enough. Shed seen a screenshot of the page Mr A wouldve 
been directed to after completing the online form. And it was clear the transfer would be 
processed straight away. Mr A couldve cancelled straight away if he was concerned, hed 
accidentally initiated a transfer.
Mr A didnt agree. He felt hed made it clear on the phone and by email that he wanted a 
transfer in specie. Hed also explained that it was easy for the box showing the form of 
transfer preference to toggle between options and change mistakenly. The next screen said 
nothing would happen until he signed and returned the form so he believed nothing would 
happen. He didnt think IIs statement they would get the ball rolling meant they would do 
the transfer. Instead he thought they would email if they needed more information and when 
they realised, they didnt have the signed form, they would make contact. If he had 
downloaded the form to sign, he wouldve seen hed ticked the cash option in error. He 
believed he had followed the instructions.
II responded that a signed form was only needed when the transfer couldnt be done online 
using the industry transfer system. When completing the online form he was notified this 
would begin the transfer. In summary it said, well get the ball rolling, contact your provider 
and let you know if we need more information from you. It also questioned why he completed 
the form if he was only considering the transfer. It checked its call records and said Mr A 
called on 16 December to get an update on the transfer. Such a call didnt fit with the 
suggestion he was still just enquiring. On 17 December he called concerned investments 
were being encashed and asking for an in-specie transfer. He was told his form had 
requested a cash transfer and to contact his existing provider. II also noted that it would 
have been possible to cancel the transfer. 
The investigator didnt change her mind and didnt think the email listing the funds was a 
request to transfer in specie. 
Mr A still didnt agree. He felt the online system should not say he needed to sign and return 
the form if he didnt need to. There was no comment that the form wasnt needed if it was 
being completed online. While II couldnt find the email where he listed his funds, they had 
confirmed receiving it. He didnt think II had any right to sell his funds and he wanted 
compensation. He felt there could have been a system error which from published reviews of 
II seemed to be common.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the heart of this complaint is the issue of a cash rather than in specie transfer. All the 
other issues flow from that. I say that because had the transfer to II been in specie Mr A 
wouldnt be complaining that it went ahead.
I have therefore considered the cause of the transfer in cash. The form Mr A completed 
requested a transfer in cash. So it doesnt seem II made a mistake in following that request.
I dont think sending an email request re in specie transfer would override the actual form. I 
say that because the formal request is the form completed online. 
Mr A says the cash instruction was an error. He wanted a cash and in specie transfer and he 
wouldnt have transferred if that wasnt possible. Mr A suggests it is easy to switch option 
without meaning to do so. But I think it was up to Mr A to check his form gave the 
instructions he wanted even if the form was sensitive and liable to toggle between options, 
as he suggests. 
Mr A said he couldnt swear he didnt make a mistake, but he didnt think the form he 
downloaded was the same as the one he completed. He said he visited the site several 
times and had later discovered chasing messages on 29 November and two on 30 
November saying he had not fully completed earlier draft forms and encouraging him to do 
so. I note that the part completed forms all requested a cash transfer. I also note that at the 
time he requested the transfer on line he didnt have confirmation he could transfer all his 
funds in specie. I can see he had asked II, but he never gets confirmation before the transfer 
proceeds. Notwithstanding this he still completed the transfer request. So on balance it 
seems to me that the form he signed was the one he completed because it makes the same 
request as his previous drafts.
Mr A says he didnt think the transfer would go through because he hadnt signed and 
returned the form. But he says he couldnt have known this is what the next step would 
indicate until he had consented to the transfer. He is clear the next stage couldnt be reached without doing that. So I think Mr A might reasonably have understood that by giving 
confirmation he was requesting the transfer go ahead on the basis requested in his form 
which was cash, and this was a step of commitment. At the time he needed to give that 
consent he couldnt have known what the next step would say and plan to hold back on the 
transfer by not signing the form.
Mr A believes II made a mistake in processing his transfer without the printed form. He 
points to his experience when he made two further transfers from the same account where 
the process was different. I do think it odd that the further transfers dont seem to have been 
treated in the same way as the first and I agree that the information could be confusing. But I 
cannot tell II to change its systems and I still think Mr A mustve intended to request a 
transfer when he confirmed acceptance for the reasons already given.
I note Mr A says had he printed the form at the time he wouldve spotted the error. But he 
didnt and that isnt IIs fault.
Even if I am wrong and II processed the transfer without all the papers needed Mr A had the 
opportunity to prevent the transfer in cash and/or prevent the transfer taking place at all. The 
law says that Mr A would have a duty to mitigate his loss such as by preventing the loss 
taking place. I say that because he enquired about the transfer on 16 December. I accept 
that he may still have believed it wasnt proceeding but he is told II are awaiting the valuation 
and there is no suggestion of the need for further papers. If Mr A didnt want to proceed, he 
might have been concerned to hear this and attempt to stop the process at that point.
Further he said he checked his old account twice a week and noticed the switch into cash on 
17 December and called II. He was directed back to his existing provider where the money 
remained (he said he could see it in the account). I dont know whether he did follow up, but 
at that point he might reasonably have asked both II and the existing provider to stop the 
transfer and instruct the existing provider to immediately reinvest. So I think he had the 
opportunity to prevent any loss.
I can see that Mr A enquired about several issues and asks for confirmation that II deals in 
his current funds. I note II say they cant find the email. But Mr A says he didnt get a reply 
and yet he completed the form and didnt seek to stop the transfer even when he knew it 
was proceeding.
Mr A also received an acknowledgement email when he submitted his form saying, thank 
you for transferring into II. He says he thought this was an acknowledgement not 
confirmation the transfer would proceed. I can see this might be one interpretation, but he 
might reasonably have checked. Even if he didnt as I have already noted there were other 
opportunities to stop the transfer when it was clear it was proceeding and in cash not in 
specie.
So while I am sorry to disappoint Mr A, for the reasons given I think II followed the 
instructions it was given, and I cannot uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Colette BewleyOmbudsman