DRN-4235714
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined a claim on his pet insurance 
policy.
My references to Covea include its agents.
What happened
Mr C took out a policy with Covea for his dog, B, in November 2022. 
In early 2023 Mr C made claims to Covea after B had treatment for a corneal ulcer in her left 
eye and corneal perforation in her right eye. After obtaining the dogs clinical history from the 
vet, Covea declined the claim on the ground that it was a pre-existing condition because the 
dog had suffered from a corneal ulcer in her left eye in 2018 before the policy had been 
taken out. 
Mr C obtained veterinary evidence that the ulcer in 2018 wasnt linked to what he was now 
claiming for. The vet said that the previous ulcer in Bs left eye had healed and wouldnt have 
caused any lasting effects on Bs eyes.
Mr C brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. He thought Covea had assessed the claims fairly based on the 
evidence available and the policy terms.
As Mr C didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy, like most other policies, doesnt cover the cost of any treatment for a pre-
existing condition. It defines a pre-existing condition as:
An injury that happened or an illness that first showed clinical signs before your pets 
cover started, or
An injury or illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an 
injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had before the cover started, or
An injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, incident, illness 
or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started. No matter where the injury, illness or 
clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or on, your pets body.
I accept the evidence from Mr Cs vets that the corneal ulcer his dog had in 2018 completely 
healed and didnt cause the conditions B was suffering from in 2022. But the above 
exclusion will still apply if Covea can establish that B had the same clinical signs in 2022/23 
as she had in 2018.
According to Bs clinical history in 2018 B had a mid-corneal ulcer in her left eye. That 
cleared up after a course of antibiotics. A week later the vet noted:
Much improvementVisible corneal defect  bilateral.
In January 2023 the vet said both Bs eyes had ulcerative keratitis (corneal ulcers). I dont 
think it was unreasonable of Covea to say that this was an illness with the same clinical 
signs as B had had in 2018 and to rely on the exclusion above to decline the claims.
. 
Whilst I am sorry to hear of the circumstances that have led to Mr Cs complaint, I think 
Covea has acted fairly in declining his claims.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman