DRN-3851419
The complaint
Mr H complains Shaks Specialist Cars (SSC) mis-sold him a car finance agreement. 
What happened
In October 2018, Mr H entered into a 24 month variable rate hire purchase agreement for a 
used car with a finance provider, who I will refer to as T. The cars cash price was £91,995. 
Mr H paid a cash deposit of £15,000. He was required to pay monthly repayments of £838 
followed by a final payment of £68,000. 
When the agreement was coming to an end, Mr H was contacted by T and told he was 
required to pay the final payment of £68,000. Mr H said he was shocked by this. He 
discovered it wasnt a personal contract purchase (PCP) agreement, so he had to pay the 
final payment and keep the car - there was no option to return the car without any further 
liability. 
As Mr H couldnt afford the final payment, T agreed to treat the agreement as a termination. 
The car was returned in May 2021 and sold for over £60,000. The sales proceeds were 
offset against the outstanding balance which left a shortfall of £7,481, which Mr H was 
required to pay to T. 
Mr H complained to SSC that they mis-sold him the agreement because he asked for a PCP 
which included an optional final payment and the ability to hand the car back. SSC said the 
agreement wasnt mis-sold. 
Dissatisfied with their response, Mr H referred the complaint against SSC to our service. Our 
investigator said SSC wasnt the credit broker, it was another party but Mr H maintained 
SSC mis-sold him the agreement. 
In October 2022, I issued a decision. I said I could consider the complaint point concerning 
credit broking which is a regulated activity and I was persuaded it was carried out by SSC. 
However I said I couldnt consider the secondary complaint point regarding the quality of the 
car.
My provisional decision
In November 2022, issued a provisional decision about the broking of the agreement and my 
intention to uphold the complaint, I said:
In this decision Ive reviewed the circumstances and considered whether Im persuaded the 
agreement was mis-sold as alleged by Mr H. Having done so, I intend to uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
When reviewing this complaint, Ive considered the principles for financial businesses set by 
the financial regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). In part, it says a firm should: 
-Conduct its business with integrity;
-Conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence;
-Pay regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly;
-Communicate information in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive also taken into account the Consumer Credit Sourcebook. Its a specialist sourcebook 
for credit related activities which can be found in the FCAs handbook. Section 2.5 of CONC 
sets out the requirements and expectations on firms when it comes to credit broking. These 
requirements apply to exempt credit agreements such as this one as defined under section 
36A Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2013 (the RAO). 
So its reasonable for me to rely on the same when considering this case. 
There are many parts that apply. I wont list them all but I wish to stress a couple which I 
consider most relevant. Section 2.5.3 of CONC says a firm must:
-Where it has responsibility for doing so, explain the key features of a regulated credit 
agreement to enable the customer to make an informed choice
-Take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that a product it wishes to recommend to a 
customer is not unsuitable for the customers needs and circumstances
In line with above FCA principles and CONC requirements, as the credit broker, SSC would 
be expected to act fairly and with due skill and care in providing suitable finance options 
based on Mr Hs needs and circumstances and to communicate them in a clear manner.
Ive carefully considered what Mr H has said about his discussions before entering into the 
agreement. He said he made it clear from the outset that he wanted a PCP agreement. He 
wanted to pay a deposit, pay fixed monthly instalments, have an annual mileage and be able 
to give the car back at the end. SSC has provided little information about these initial 
conversations or what they were told by Mr H that he wanted. All theyve said is Mr H initially 
approached them for a personal finance agreement but they declined to do so.
I wasnt present during these initial conversations so I have to decide what I consider is most 
likely to have happened. Having done so, Im persuaded Mr H told SSC that he wanted the 
ability to give the car back at the end of agreement and he had no intention of owning it 
amongst other things. His testimony has been consistent from the outset and I find it to be 
plausible and persuasive. The fact SSC initially provided quotes for two PCP agreements 
and two hire agreements supports my belief that they were aware he wanted to be able to 
return the car. Ive also seen evidence of conversations via phone between Mr H and SSC 
where he talks about handing the car back at the end. Although I accept this was after the 
agreement was entered into, in my opinion it further demonstrates Mr Hs belief that this was 
a PCP agreement and he could hand the car back. In the messages, there is no evidence 
SSC corrected him about this or reiterated the agreement doesnt allow for that to happen. 
For these reasons, Im convinced Mr H made his intentions and needs clear to SSC before 
entering the agreement, which was he wanted a PCP agreement. 
The monthly costs of the initial four quotes ranged from £1,158 to £1,372 but Mr H said 
these payments wouldnt be affordable. According to him, shortly thereafter, he received a 
call from SSC to say they had found another finance option where the monthly payments 
were lower however he needed to act quickly and return the signed agreement. No copy of 
this call has been provided and given the time that has passed, its unlikely to be available. 
But Ive seen a copy of SSCs email following that call. Unlike their earlier emails, it didnt 
include the quote but the agreement itself with instructions on how to complete and return it 
along with the documents required. 
Ive reviewed the agreement. At the top, it states its a Variable Rate Hire Purchase 
Agreement (Non-Regulated). It sets out the details of the car and the financial information such as the cars cash price, cash deposit, the amount to finance, etc. It said there would be 
25 monthly payments of £838 followed by a final basic payment of £68,000. 
Given Mr H had made it clear he had no intention to own the car at the end, Im not satisfied 
SSC acted fairly nor reasonably by suggesting such an agreement. I say this because the 
final payment wasnt optional, Mr H would be required to pay it meaning he would own the 
car but this is not what he wanted. As this agreement was significantly different from what Mr 
H had asked for and not of similar nature as the earlier quotes, I wouldve expected SSC to 
have clearly and sufficiently pointed out the differences and key features of this agreement. 
The most notable one being that the final payment wasnt optional he would have to pay it 
and he couldnt hand the car back. As there isnt any evidence this happened, Im not 
persuaded SSC paid due regard to Mr Hs needs and wishes in suggesting this agreement.
Moreover, I wouldve also expected SSC to have provided an adequate explanation of this 
type of agreement in a clear and fair manner. This is because it was unregulated rather than 
a standard car finance agreement that provided certain protection and remedies such as 
voluntary termination rights. SSC said their sales manager explained the finance 
requirements, went through the affordability aspects and the differences between regulated 
and non-regulated agreements with Mr H. Limited evidence has been presented to me but 
based on the correspondence Ive seen including the email following the call there is no 
mention of such explanations, nor does it reference the agreements key features. For this 
reason, Im not convinced the agreements features were discussed during the call or in 
writing via email by SSC.
According to SSC, they explained although the monthly payments were affordable, the final 
payment would be high and Mr H agreed to proceed. However I havent been provided with 
any evidence to support this. I consider this to be important considering the significant size 
of the final payment (£68,000) and how Mr H would be expected to afford this as there 
wasnt an option to hand the car back. 
Had SSC clearly explained the features of the agreement, most notably the considerable 
size of the final amount with no option to give back the car, Im not convinced Mr H wouldve 
entered into it. I say this because it would appear the monthly payments and the overall 
amount required to pay was a key factor in his decision making. He had already said the 
monthly payments of the three and four year PCP and hire agreement quotes werent 
affordable and in those agreements, the car could be returned. Therefore I find it highly 
unlikely he would agree to pay a final amount of £68,000 at the end of a two year agreement 
on top of the monthly instalments.
Mr H would be required to pay over £100,000 under this agreement which I consider a 
significant amount over a relatively short period of time (24 months). I wouldve expected 
SSC to have taken reasonable steps to make sure Mr H was aware, understood and had the 
means to afford not just the monthly payments but also the final payment. However there is 
no evidence that happened. There is nothing to indicate there were any specific discussions 
about how Mr H would be able to afford the final payment at the end of the agreement.
SSC may argue that the agreement was sent to Mr H, he signed it, initialled each page to 
confirm he read the terms and conditions and he had the opportunity to ask questions if he 
was uncertain about anything. While I accept that to be the case and it could be argued Mr H 
should have been more prudent before entering into the agreement, that doesnt negate 
SSCs obligations as set out above. 
In summary, Mr H wanted a PCP agreement, to pay monthly instalments and to have the 
ability to give the car back at the end without owning it but thats not the agreement SSC 
provided. Im not convinced SSC acted with due skill, care and diligence in presenting this agreement as it didnt meet Mr Hs needs nor did they provide sufficient or clear explanations 
for him to make an informed choice. Had Mr H been adequately informed, Im not persuaded 
he wouldve entered into the agreement. For the reasons explained above, I cant say SSC 
acted fairly or in line with FCAs principles and the CONC requirements when they sold this 
agreement. I agree with Mr H that it was mis-sold.
How to put things right
Having decided the agreement was mis-sold, I must now decide how to put things right. 
Generally speaking, in such cases were likely to say the financial business should end the 
agreement, collect the car and refund the payments less the cost of fair usage. 
However in this case, the agreement has already come to an end and Mr H did have use of 
the car for 24 months. The lender, T, has agreed to take back the car, it was sold but there is 
a shortfall balance of £7,481 which Mr H owes. From my understanding, he has been paying 
£50 per week since late March 2020 towards that outstanding balance. 
In light of the above, I consider the most fair resolution would be for SSC to cover the cost of 
the shortfall balance. That means SSC must pay the remaining outstanding amount to T to 
settle the agreement in full. They will also need to reimburse Mr H for any payments hes 
already made to T regarding this shortfall balance plus pay 8% simple interest from the date 
of each payment to the date of settlement. I wont be asking SSC to refund the monthly 
payments as Mr H had use of the car throughout the duration of the agreement. 
Ive also thought carefully about the impact this situation has had on Mr H. Hes told our 
service about the worry and upset it has caused by being told he owed a significant amount 
of money and the agreement wasnt what he wanted. Given the circumstances, I find its fair 
for SSC to pay £200 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Response to the provisional decision
In response, Mr H largely agreed with the findings but said the following:
The compensation wasnt enough given the time, effort and stress it has caused and 
the impact of this situation on his mental health;
The value of second-hand cars has increased in recent times. Had SSC accepted the 
return of the car and the value of it had increased, any surplus couldve been used 
towards another car. 
SSC disagreed. In summary, they said:
Mr H was offered a number of financial options, which were tailored to his requested 
monthly budget. Such options differed in length, deposit and type of agreement;
Another party was the broker and they provided options of finance products and 
quotes to allow Mr H to make an informed choice;
The agreement clearly outlined the charges and the payments. Mr H knew he had to 
pay the final payment;
As part of the application, Mr H contacted his accountant who provided a letter which 
confirmed his ability to pay;
Mr H is bringing this complaint because SSC were unwilling to come to a private 
agreement about the funding of the car. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their further comments and information which Ive carefully 
considered.
I wish to reiterate that as per my earlier decision, I found SSC was the broker in this 
agreement, not another party and I provided my reasons as to why. Ive already set out the 
key expectations and responsibilities of SSC being the broker so I wont repeat them again 
here. I accept a letter was provided by Mr Hs accountant and I note the contents of the 
agreement however that doesnt negate SSCs obligations to clearly explain the features of 
the agreement, including the requirement to pay the final payment to enable him to make an 
informed choice. As already explained there is no evidence such conversations or 
explanations took place. Equally, I remain of the opinion had the features of the agreement 
been adequately explained, Im not convinced Mr H wouldve entered into it. 
Turning to Mr Hs comments. As this wasnt a PCP agreement, I cant consider what 
wouldve happened if the car was returned nor the value of it. Ive taken into account the 
trouble and upset caused by the situation and its impact, but I still find £200 compensation is 
fair given the circumstances.
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
To put things right, Shaks Specialist Cars must:
- Pay the remaining balance of the outstanding debt owed to T in order to settle the 
agreement in full;
- Reimburse Mr H for the payments hes paid towards the shortfall balance plus pay 
8% simple interest from the date of each payment to the date of settlement;
- Pay £200 compensation to Mr H for the trouble and upset caused. 
If Shaks Specialist Cars considers tax should be deducted from the interest part of my 
award it should provide Mr H with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so he can 
reclaim that amount if he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman