DRN-3686946
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain about Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) decision to decline 
their claim under their home contents insurance. 
What happened
Mrs H says she noticed a strong smell coming from her sofa, so she tried to clean it, but this 
led to damage to the cushions. Mr H and Mrs H claimed against their home contents 
insurance and were originally told it would be covered. Ageas then declined the claim on the 
basis the policy doesnt cover damage caused by cleaning products.
Mr H and Mrs H complained about Ageas decision and about initially being told the claim 
would be covered. Ageas responded and explained Mrs H submitted a claim for accidental 
damage whilst cleaning her sofa. Ageas explained theyd correctly declined the claim on the 
basis of a policy exclusion around any damage caused by cleaning. Ageas apologised for 
any confusion caused by the initial call handler saying the claim would be covered. They 
explained this was incorrect and the claim shouldve been declined straight away.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H and Mrs H. He thought Ageas hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. Mr H and Mrs H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr H and Mrs H will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr H and Mrs Hs home contents insurance policy which sets out the 
terms and conditions. Under a section headed, Things we wont pay out for it says, We 
also wont pay for any damage caused by repairing, cleaning, demolishing or making 
alterations to your buildings or contents. Ageas declined to provide cover on the basis the 
claim circumstances fall within this policy exclusion. So, Ive looked into whether Ageas 
decision is fair and reasonable. 
Ive listened to the call where Mrs H describes the claim circumstances and she confirms 
there was a strange smell coming from her sofa, so she decided to clean it with soda 
crystals and another product. 
Mrs H says this seems to have penetrated through the leather causing it to split. Mrs H says 
shes unsure whether shes covered and the call handler explains she is covered. Theres no 
dispute that Mrs H cleaned her sofa and then noticed the damage. The terms and conditions 
do say that Ageas wont cover damage caused by cleaning, so I dont think theyve acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. I note Mrs H believes the claim should be covered as it was 
accidental damage. I do acknowledge this, but there is a policy exclusion which relates to 
damage caused by cleaning  and thats what has happened here. I dont doubt the damage 
has been caused unintentionally, but that doesnt mean its unreasonable for Ageas to apply 
the policy exclusion.  
I understand Mrs H is concerned she was initially told the claim was covered but was then 
told it wasnt. I understand why this was frustrating for Mrs H and I can see Ageas have 
apologised for this error. I agree there was an error by Ageas here, but I cant say this 
should mean the claim should be covered. I acknowledge Mrs H was led to believe her claim 
was covered but this was rectified within a reasonable time after when the claim handler 
called her to discuss the claim outcome. So, I think Ageas apology is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman