DRN-3518374
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed their account.
What happened
Mrs P and Mr P had a current account with Barclays. It had an overdraft limit of £3,000. Mr P 
also had a loan from Barclays  which is not part of this complaint.
In January 2021, Mr P contacted Barclays to say that due to the pandemic, his work and 
family circumstances, he was struggling and in financial difficulty. Barclays competed an 
income and expenditure form and the result was that Mrs P and Mr P had a negative 
monthly disposable income (MDI). Barclays agreed to place the current account on hold for 
six months, with no charges or interest. They sent a letter to Mrs P and Mr P dated 8 
January 2021 to confirm the agreement. On 7 June 2021, Barclays sent to Mrs P and Mr P a 
termination notice, which gave 30 days notice of termination. On 7 July 2021, the account 
was closed and the debt was passed to a debt collection agency to manage. A default was 
placed on Mrs P and Mr Ps credit file.
Mrs P and Mr P complained. They said theyd not received any notice of termination or 
contact from Barclays to say the account would be closed. They said such a letter should be 
sent recorded delivery, not in the normal post. Therefore, the termination, and default on 
their credit files were unfair. They said the default should be removed and compensation of 
£2,500 paid to each of them.
Barclays said a nil payment arrangement was agreed with Mrs P and Mr P in January 2021 
and it was confirmed in a letter sent on 8 January 2021. That letter said a termination notice 
would be sent after five months unless the arrangement was cancelled or another plan 
agreed. This was confirmed on calls with Barclays on 28 May 2021 and 9 June 2021 - when 
Mr P said his financial position hadnt improved. Barclays said the termination notice was 
mailed to the correct address. Barclays didnt uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint and said 
the default should remain.
Mrs P and Mr P brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclays acted 
reasonably. She said the agreement and termination notice was sent by Barclays as theyd 
said. Barclays had shown her evidence that the termination letter had been sent to the 
correct address and so that was sufficient for her to conclude that it was received.
Mrs P and Mr P asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint. And so it has come to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I looked at this complaint, I wanted to understand more  and listen also to the calls 
made between Mrs P and Mr P and Barclays in January 2021, May 2021, and June 2021. 
These took some time to be extracted, and so Im sorry that it has taken longer than I would 
like to review Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint.
Terms & Conditions: Barclays do have the right to close an account if they wish - its in their 
terms and conditions, which Ive reviewed. These say If you have an arranged overdraft, we 
can end it at any time and for any reason. Well give you at least 30 days written notice and 
ask you to pay it back.
Letters: I can see that Barclays wrote to Mrs P and Mr P on 7 June 2021 to say It is a term 
of your agreement with the Bank that the full amount outstanding on your account is 
repayable, with daily fees, on demand at any time. Pursuant to that term, the Bank hereby 
terminates your agreement, with effect from 07/07/2021 and makes demand for full and 
immediate repayment of the balance on the account (currently £1950.38 DR) with effect from 
that date. So  Barclays were entitled to close Mrs P and Mr Ps account and did give 30 
days notice of closure  so that was a reasonable thing to do.
The letter went on to say that credit reference agencies would also be advised as it said If 
you do not settle the balance on your account, the Bank may transfer the debt to one of its 
recovery units or agents with a view to taking further action. Additionally, it is the Banks 
intention to register details of the account with credit reference agencies.
Calls: I listened to the call between Mr P and Barclays on 2 January 2021  this was an 
important call. Mr P said he was in financial difficulty. He was on furlough but didnt have 
enough money to meet his commitments. Barclays went through his income and expenditure 
and concluded that he had negative monthly income. That is, his outgoings were more than 
his income.
Barclays agreed a standstill agreement on his overdraft  whereby no interest or charges 
would be made. But they said this agreement could only be for up to six months. Barclays 
said that after five months, unless Mr P advised a change in circumstances or agreed a 
different payment plan, they would send a notice of termination, close he account, pass it to 
a debt collection agency and register a default.  Mr P agreed to this and a limit of £3,010 was 
agreed upon.
Barclays then sent a letter to Mrs P and Mr P to confirm the conversation  dated 8 January 
2021. It said You will still receive a notice which will advise you we will be terminating your 
account and demanding full repayment of the outstanding balance. Your account will close 
within the timeframe set out in the notice if you don't take any action to repay the outstanding 
balanceWe have suspended dally fees on your account. Following the expiry of the notice, 
your account will be passed to our Recoveries department who will be advised of this 
arrangement. It Is important to be aware that any demand for full payment on your account 
will be registered on your credit file. Therefore, Mrs P and Mr P were advised of the 
arrangement, and what might happen after a period.
I also listened to the calls between Mr P and Barclays on 18 May 2021, 28 May 2021 and 9 
June 2021. There were several calls and Im satisfied that Mr P was advised about what 
would happen to the current account; and that a termination notice would be sent in June 
2021. For example, on the calls on 28 May 2021, I heard Barclays call handler advise Mr P 
at least three times that a termination notice was to be sent in nine days time, and that it 
would run up until 7 July 2021. I also heard Barclays call handler advise Mr P that he must 
make alternative arrangements to pay off the overdraft, or a default would take place.
So  Mr P shouldve been aware of what was to happen - from the calls.
Termination Notice: The termination notice was dated 7 June 2021  Mrs P and Mr P couldve avoided the closure of the account and the default if they had contacted Barclays 
between then and 7 July 2021  with a new payment proposal. I reviewed the customer 
records and Mr P called Barclays on 9 June 2021. On that call, Barclays said the termination 
letter had been sent - Mr P said he hadnt yet received it. Other than that , there wasnt any 
other contact between then and 7 July 2021.  So  Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
Barclays to go ahead and close the account.
Mrs P and Mr P argue that they didnt get the termination latter  and it shouldve been sent 
by recorded delivery or similar. But theres no obligation for Barclays to do that  and Ive 
seen the evidence it was sent to Mrs P and Mr Ps home address  so we must assume it 
was received. But also  as Ive said, it was also made clear on the calls and in the letter 
dated January 2021  what was going to happen.
I accept that Mrs P and Mr P feel strongly about what happened. But in the circumstances of 
their complaint, my decision is that Barclays acted reasonably and I wont be asking them to 
do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman