DRN-4233620
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr J says that when he applied to Barclaycard for a credit card, he was self-employed and 
struggling financially. He says he used the credit card for a balance transfer from another 
credit card as it had an interest free period and says he hasnt been able to clear the debt. 
He says he has only ever been able to make the minimum repayments and is continually 
needing to borrow more to meet his commitments. He says his debts have caused him 
stress and depression and contributed to his family break up. 
Barclaycard issued a final response letter in August 2022. It said that when assessing an 
application, it reviews credit file details and confirmed there was nothing received from the 
credit reference agencies regarding Mr J to suggest he was experiencing financial difficulties 
at the time. It said before any credit limit increase it carries out internal checks and reviews 
the credit information. It said Mr J had a good repayment history on the account. 
Mr J wasnt satisfied with Barclaycards response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She noted that Mr J was provided with a credit card 
with an initial credit limit of £9,700 and that there were a couple of limit increases as well as 
credit limit decreases from July 2020.  
Our investigator didnt think the checks carried out before the credit card was provided were 
reasonable and proportionate given the size of the initial credit limit. She thought it would 
have been reasonable to verify Mr Js financial circumstances and had this happened 
Barclaycard would have realised there was a significant risk that Mr J wouldnt be able to 
repay the credit within a reasonable timeframe. 
Barclaycard didnt agree with our investigators view. It noted the comment that there were 
only limited funds in Mr Js bank account but said that it wasnt industry standard to request 
copies of bank statements as part of a credit card application. It said it was the standards in 
place at the time that should be applied to the assessment. 
Barclaycard said Mr J hadnt just made the minimum repayments and between 2015 and 
July 2021 he had paid over the minimum amount and cleared his account balance on 
numerous occasions. It said that once it was aware of Mr Js change in circumstances it had 
made every attempt to reduce his credit limit and had it been able to reduce this further it 
would have done. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr J was provided with a credit card with an initial credit limit of £9,700 in 2015. I note the 
comments Barclaycard has made about the regulations in place at the time and that it isnt 
industry standard to request copies of bank statements. I accept this and can see from the 
application information that Mr Js income was recorded as £30,000. Mr J was recorded to 
have two loans and two other credit cards at the time. 
I do not find the information gathered at the time of application raised any serious concerns 
about his financial position. However, noting the size of the credit limit being provided and 
that this, if fully used, would result in his credit commitments accounting for a significant 
amount of his declared monthly income, I think it would have been reasonable to verify 
Mr Js financial circumstances before providing the credit card with a £9,700 credit limit.
Barclaycard werent required to check Mr Js bank statements but as I think Mr Js income 
should have been verified, I have used the information provided in Mr Js bank statements to 
understand what would likely have been identified had further checks taken place.
Having looked through Mr Js bank statements from the months leading up to the credit card 
being provided, his income for 8 January to 10 February 2015 was £600 and between 11 
February to 10 March 2015 was £200. Given his existing credit commitments (before the 
Barclaycard credit card), including his overdraft fees and that he was paying insurance and 
had other costs, I find that further checks would have shown there was a significant risk that 
Mr J wouldnt have been able to repay this additional credit within a reasonable timeframe. 
Therefore, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
I dont think Mr J shouldve been given this account. I think Mr J should pay the cash price 
for any goods he has kept. But I dont think Mr J should have to pay any interest or charges, 
so all interest and charges should be removed.
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should work out how much Mr J would have 
owed after the above adjustments. Any repayment Mr J has made since the opening of the 
account in March 2015 should be used to reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mr J along 
with 8% simple interest* - calculated from the date of overpayment to the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Mr J no longer owes any money, then all adverse 
information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file from the opening of 
the account in March 2015.
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should 
look to arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr J for the outstanding amount. Once Mr J 
has cleared the balance, any adverse information should be removed from the credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires tax to be deducted from any award of interest. Barclays 
Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax has 
been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding 
balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should take the actions set out above in 
resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman