DRN-1785756
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that his annual boiler service was missed because British Gas Services 
Limited (BG) sent reminders to an incorrect address.  
What happened
Mr T had Home Care Two home emergency insurance with BG which included an annual 
boiler service as part of the insurance package. Mr T realised his annual service hadnt been 
carried out during the previous service year so he complained to BG.
BG said it had tried to contact Mr T by email to arrange the service. He was unhappy with 
this because his email address is unused and BG usually called him to arrange the 
appointment. BG offered £20 compensation, which Mr T declined. He felt that a sum 
equivalent to the cost of the missed annual service was more appropriate.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that the terms and conditions of 
the policy state it is a customers responsibility to keep BG informed of up to date contact 
details. Therefore, she didnt think it had done anything wrong by using the email address it 
had on file for Mr T. Nor did she think that BG had done anything wrong by using the email 
address it had on file rather than calling Mr T.
Our investigator also referred to the terms and conditions which state that the cost of missed 
annual services wont be refunded. Therefore, she felt Mr T wouldve been aware that BG 
wouldnt refund the cost. She didnt think BG needed to increase its offer of compensation.
As BG had already completed the next annual service, our investigator thought the impact 
on Mr T of the missed annual service was minimal. She thought the offer of £20 was fair and 
didnt think BG needed to do any more.
Mr T didnt agree. He felt that the terms and conditions meant BG shouldnt have to refund 
the cost of a missed annual service only if it wasnt the companys fault. Mr T also repeated 
his complaint that BG shouldve called him to arrange the service.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr T will be disappointed with my decision, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Both parties accept that the annual boiler service was missed. Mr T thinks BG is at fault for 
not calling him to make arrangements. BG doesnt think its done anything wrong because it emailed him on three occasions to remind him his service was due. In the terms and 
conditions of the policy, BG states:
Annual Service
When your annual service is due well send you or your authorised contact an email, letter, 
text message or call you to arrange it. Well try to get hold of you up to three times. If we 
dont hear back from you after the third time, we wont try again and wont refund the cost of 
the missed annual service.
I think its position is clear and BGs response to Mr T was in line with the policy conditions. 
Just because BG called in previous years, I dont think it means its committed to do so every 
year. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for BG to email Mr T.
Mr T says the email address BG used, as confirmed to him on webchat, was an old address 
which he hadnt used for around ten years. I have no reason to doubt that. However, BG had 
no reason to think that the email on its records for Mr T was out of date. If BG had used an 
incorrect email, not one previously used or given by Mr T, then I wouldve considered this 
matter differently. But Mr T confirmed it was an old email address of his. I appreciate that on 
changing email address he wouldnt have immediately thought to notify BG. But it wouldnt 
be fair for me to hold BG responsible for not being aware of his new address. 
Again, the responsibility for Mr T is clear on this. As well as being in the terms and 
conditions, the annual policy renewal letters state:
What are my obligations?
It's your responsibility to keep us informed of any changes to your contact details or 
change of address.
 
I am satisfied that it was Mr Ts responsibility to keep BG informed of any change in contact 
details and it has not done anything wrong by emailing him using the address on record.
Finally, Mr T thinks the offer of £20 is derisory. He has returned the cheque to BG and would 
like the cost of the annual service refunded to him. BG offered £20 for the difficulties Mr T 
experienced when accessing its services online. As quoted above, the terms and conditions 
state BG wont refund the cost of missed annual services. I understand Mr Ts point that it 
would surely apply only if BG was not at fault for missing the appointment. I agree. However, 
as I have explained, I dont think BG was at fault here so I dont think BG needs to make any 
additional payments for the missed boiler service.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman