DRN-2878189
The complaint
Mrs L complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (RBS) led her to believe they would 
lend her money to re-finance her business, only to ultimately decline to lend at the eleventh 
hour. She says by the time RBS confirmed its decision to her, it was too late to arrange 
finance elsewhere, so she had to close her business.
To put things right, Mrs L wants RBS to pay her compensation to cover her losses.
What happened
On 7 January 2019, Mrs L contacted RBS about re-financing her business. She had an 
existing loan with a third-party bank, and needed to borrow £425,000. Her existing loan was 
due for repayment on 28 June 2019 and her existing lender had already confirmed it 
wouldnt renew the loan as it had changed its policies such that it didnt wish to lend to 
companies that operated the business model Mrs Ls business did.
Mrs L met with RBS on 25 January, when RBS told her the loan was outside of its usual 
scope, but that it could be submitted to the credit team if it was first signed off by two senior 
managers. She says RBS was so positive about the lending being approved that she didnt 
pursue other funding options elsewhere.
Over the course of the next few months, RBS asked Mrs L for more information so it could 
consider the lending. It repeated that the lending was outside of RBSs usual scope, but Mrs 
Ls relationship manager said he was happy to support the application and to put it forward 
for a decision.
On 11 June 2020, Mrs Ls relationship manager emailed her to say the application had been 
declined. He said the credit team was unwilling to consider it as an exception to RBSs 
policy.
Mrs L complained. She said RBS had left her no time to arrange finance elsewhere, that her 
relationship manager wasted time in the application process and that she had had to shut 
the business down as a result.
RBS issued its final response to Mrs Ls complaint on 23 March 2020. It said it had reviewed 
the timeline of events and felt the time it took to reach a lending decision was reasonable, 
given the nature of the proposal, the amount requested, and the sector in which Mrs Ls 
business operated. It said Mrs L was aware of the deadline to repay her borrowing with the 
third-party bank, and that Mrs L had sufficient time to approach other lenders, starting from 
the date Mrs L approached RBS.
Mrs L rejected RBSs response and brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
found that, due to the size of Mrs Ls business, it qualified as a small business and not a 
micro enterprise for the purposes of the rules our service must follow. And because of that, 
we could only consider matters that arose after 1 April 2019, being the date small 
businesses became eligible to bring complaints to our service.
With that in mind, the period our investigator looked at was 10 weeks (from 1 April 2019 to 
11 June 2019). She reviewed the evidence both parties had submitted and felt there had 
been no undue delays. She said the relationship manager had submitted the application to 
RBSs credit team, and had communicated the lending decision without delay.
She said RBS hadnt guaranteed the application would be successful and that it had told Mrs 
L from the start that it would be an exception to RBSs lending policy, if it was approved.
Mrs L accepted our investigators findings on the dates we were able to look at, but didnt 
agree RBS had proceeded without delay from 1 April 2019 onwards. She asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons our investigator set out, I will only address events that arose on or after 1 
April 2019. That means I wont look at what happened at Mrs Ls meeting on 25 January 
2019, which is when Mrs L says RBS were so positive that she didnt feel the need to 
consider alternative lending options. Or the conversations/investigations that took place in 
February and March of 2019.
However, I have seen correspondence between Mrs L and RBS from 1 April 2019 onwards 
that I can comment on, and Ive listened to everything both Mrs L and RBS have told our 
service. Having done so, I wont be upholding Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
To answer Mrs Ls complaint, its important to establish what RBS told Mrs L about the 
prospects of the loan succeeding, and to look at what was happening from 1 April 2019 until 
11 June 2019.
The earliest email Ive seen that I can comment on was dated 1 April 2019 and was between 
Mrs Ls relationship manager and a senior manager at RBS. The senior manager said he 
was happy to put the application through to the credit team, despite the loan being out of 
policy, because it met certain other criteria that meant the application had a good prospect of 
being successful. This supports what RBS told Mrs L in that the loan application was an 
exception to its usual policy, but they felt it was worthwhile putting the application through.
Mrs L says she was told on 2 April 2019 the relationship manager intended to submit his 
report to the credit team for a decision on 4 April 2019. Whereas, that didnt actually happen 
until 28 May 2019. So, Ive looked at what happened between 2 April and 28 May 2019 to 
see if RBS caused undue delays that impacted Mrs Ls ability to obtain borrowing elsewhere 
before her deadline.
After that email, RBS followed up on 9 April 2019, in which the relationship manager said as 
you are aware the proposal is out with the bank policy so we need to have a clear 
understanding of the financial performance of the business and the commentary on 
occupancy and projections provided do not back this up, hence the reason for the request 
for the draft accounts at this stage,
RBS also raised three further enquiries about the underlying business, that it needed Mrs L 
to answer. It raised further queries on 15 April 2019, and sought a meeting to discuss the 
application. The relationship manager went on holiday for a week, and so the meeting didnt take place until 29 April 2019.
The relationship manager then emailed Mrs L on 28 May 2019, confirming he was in a 
position to submit the application and test the exceptions policy. Mrs L says she was asked 
for further information again shortly afterwards, before RBS emailed Mrs L on 11 June 2019, 
confirming that the credit team wasnt prepared to consider an exception to the banks policy.
I accept RBS had expressed optimism to Mrs L about the prospects of the loan succeeding. 
It told Mrs L it was confident about the application, and that it had been signed off at senior 
manager level to go through to the next stage.
However, Mrs L accepts she was told the loan would be an exception to the banks policy, 
and Ive seen emails in which RBS told Mrs L as much. So while RBS did offer optimism, it 
also offered caution and I cant reasonably say RBS had instilled so much confidence in Mrs 
L at the prospects of the loan succeeding that it should be held liable for the consequences 
of the loan failing, without Mrs L having alternative funding. 
As to the delays, I accept RBS raised numerous queries and that the application went on 
longer than it told Mrs L to anticipate. However, having considered the nature of the 
application and evidence from both parties, Im not persuaded there were any unreasonable 
delays that deprived Mrs L of the opportunity to obtain funding elsewhere. 
This was a high value loan application, with complexities surrounding the structure of Mrs Ls 
business. It also fell outside of RBSs usual lending policy, and needed approval from the 
relationship manager and his seniors before it could even be submitted for a decision. So it 
stands to reason that the application might not follow as clear a path as it might otherwise, 
and that it might take longer than a loan application within RBSs usual lending policies. 
I also looked at whether RBS could have known that the application was destined to fail 
sooner than it told Mrs L, but I havent seen any evidence to support that contention. Im 
satisfied RBSs staff operated under a reasonable assumption that the loan could still 
succeed, despite being out of policy. And that they couldnt reasonably have anticipated the 
rejection earlier, beyond the possibility that it might not succeed due to it being out of scope, 
which was of course communicated to Mrs L.
Given what Ive said above, Im not persuaded that RBS should have completed the 
application more quickly, and that it caused delays that meant Mrs L was unable to obtain 
finance elsewhere. And its worth repeating that Im not persuaded by the evidence Ive 
reviewed that Mrs L reasonably relied on RBS as the sole lending option. So even if there 
had been delays, I couldnt reasonably say Mrs L took sufficient steps to mitigate the impact 
of a rejection from RBS.
I recognise the position Mrs L was left in as a result of not being able to secure re-finance. 
And I dont underestimate the impact this has had on her, her staff and others affected by 
the closure of the business. I understand Mrs Ls strength of feeling in this matter and Im 
grateful to her for explaining what happened during the process, and for setting out the 
widespread impact she and others felt when the business closed. But, because of what Ive 
said above, I cant reasonably hold RBS responsible for her losses: Im satisfied there were 
no undue delays during the period Ive investigated, and that there were no promises made 
to Mrs L about the success of the loan, that would justify an award in favour of Mrs L
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman