DRN-1182152
 
The complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
Mrs C took out a mortgage with Lloyds in August 1999. At the same time she took out a 
regular premium MPPI policy to cover her repayments if she was too sick to work or became 
unemployed. This policy was cancelled by Mrs C within the 30 day cooling off period and no 
premiums were charged. Mrs C took a further policy out almost a year later in July 2000 
covering her for the same things.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because she thought the way the 
information was set out in the paperwork suggested Mrs C had a choice in taking the policy 
and thought that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mrs C. 
Mrs C disagrees. She says she was led to believe she couldnt get the mortgage without 
taking the policy because her husband was self-employed. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint on the sale of either policy.
Lloyds has shown us that the initial policy sold at the same time as the mortgage was 
cancelled by Mrs C within the 30 day cooling off period and that no premiums were charged. 
With this being the case Mrs C hasnt suffered any loss so I wont be investigating the sale of 
this policy any further.
In regards to the sale of the second policy Lloyds needed to make it clear to Mrs C that she 
had a choice in taking the policy. Mrs C says this wasnt done and that she was told she 
couldnt get the mortgage without taking the policy. But at this stage Mrs C already had the 
mortgage and I can see that Mrs C completed an entirely separate application form from the 
mortgage for the PPI.
So I think she wouldve understood she could have the mortgage without PPI  as her 
mortgage had been in place for almost a year  and I think she completed the application 
form because she chose to do so because she wanted the cover. Lloyds advised Mrs C to take the policy. What this means is that Lloyds not only had to 
provide information about MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mrs C could 
make an informed choice about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to 
recommend MPPI that the policy was suitable for Mrs Cs needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs C for the following reasons:
 
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
Mrs C says that she was entitled to some sick pay but had no other means of making 
her repayments if she couldnt work. The policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick 
pay and for potentially longer, covering her for up to 12 months if she was too sick to 
work or became unemployed. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs C in her circumstances 
especially considering she was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think 
Mrs C wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs C at the time. 
And if she decided she no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled it like she 
did with the first policy.
 
I also need to consider whether Lloyds gave Mrs C information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy out. 
I dont know if Lloyds did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mrs C has told us about her circumstances at 
the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy if shed been given all the proper 
information.
So this means Mrs C isnt worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Lloyds.
 
 
 
 
 
  
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman