DRN-2085105
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2018, Mrs W called a broker to take out an annual travel insurance policy. The 
policy was insured by ERGO. As part of the sales process, Mrs W went through medical 
screening. She declared that Mr W had previously suffered from cancer and was undergoing 
testing for an undiagnosed condition. Thats because hed suffered from blackouts. The call 
handler explained that while Mr W was undergoing tests, all pre-existing medical conditions 
would be excluded from cover. This included anything linked to the undiagnosed condition. 
Mr W was later fitted with an implant to monitor his heart in case this was causing the 
blackouts.
Mr and Mrs W booked a holiday in March 2019 and were due to travel in September 2019. 
Unfortunately, a couple of weeks before they were due to travel, Mr Ws implant picked up 
that there was an issue with his heart. He had to have a pacemaker fitted and wasnt fit to 
travel. So Mr and Mrs W had to cancel their trip and they made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy.
ERGO turned down Mr and Mrs Ws claim. Thats because the policy terms dont cover any 
pre-existing medical conditions that havent been accepted by ERGO in writing. As ERGO 
had excluded cover for all of Mr Ws pre-existing medical conditions, and the reason for 
cancellation was directly linked to the tests Mr W had been undergoing, it said the claim 
wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with ERGOs decision and they complained. ERGO maintained 
its decision. So Mr and Mrs W asked us to look into their complaint. They said the policy 
schedule didnt include a specific exclusion for the testing. And that ERGOs call handler had 
told them their claim would definitely be covered. On that basis, theyd cancelled their trip 
with the travel provider, rather than rescheduling it. This wouldve saved them a substantial 
amount of money.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
policy schedule was sufficiently clear, given Mr Ws condition hadnt had a name when the 
policy was taken out. He felt the sales agent had clearly explained to Mrs W that there was 
no medical cover for any of Mr Ws pre-existing medical conditions. And Mrs W had 
indicated she accepted this. Hed noted Mrs W had kept ERGO updated about the tests Mr 
W was undergoing and the call handlers had reiterated that his medical conditions werent 
covered. 
The investigator accepted that one of ERGOs call handlers had given Mrs W incorrect 
information about the claim. But he didnt think this made a difference because Mrs W had 
previously been given the right information about the policy and the likelihood that the claim 
wouldnt be covered. And he also noted that the call handler had suggested Mrs W contact 
the claims team. So he thought itd been open to her to do so before going ahead and 
cancelling the trip.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They felt Mrs W hadnt had any support or guidance from ERGO. 
They maintained that ERGO shouldve sent them a policy schedule which clearly stated both 
the cancer and the undiagnosed condition werent covered. They asked whether Mrs Ws 
costs could be met, as she was covered by the policy. Our investigator explained that Mrs 
Ws costs wouldnt be covered because the policy excluded any claims relating to a pre-
existing condition, rather than the person with the condition.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for ERGO to turn down Mr and Mrs Ws claim. Ill explain 
why.
First, I note that in ERGOs final response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, it said they hadnt 
declared Mr Ws conditions to it. Its clear from the telephone calls Ive listened to that not 
only did Mrs W declare Mr Ws health conditions when she took out the policy, she took real 
care to keep ERGO regularly updated about what was happening with Mr Ws tests. I think 
Mrs W took all reasonable steps she possibly could have to ensure ERGO had the right 
information about Mr Ws health. So I can understand why this email wouldve been 
particularly upsetting.
The policy terms
But in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, I have to consider the terms of their policy and 
whether I think ERGO has applied them fairly and reasonably. Ive first looked at the policy 
terms ERGOs applied to turn down the claim. The Health Declaration says:
Pre-existing medical conditions will not be covered unless theyve been declared and 
accepted by us in writing.
The declaration continues:
Regretfully, we are unable to provide cover for any pre-existing medical condition(s) where 
you have an undiagnosed medical condition, or a condition where you are currently on a 
waiting list, undergoing treatment or tests, or where you are awaiting the results of any tests.Ive seen the medical evidence Mr and Mrs W sent to ERGO to support their claim. Theres a 
letter on file from Mr Ws Consultant Cardiologist following an appointment Mr W had in late 
November 2018. One of the issues the cardiologist was looking into was Mr Ws recurrent 
blackouts. The cardiologist recommended that an implant be fitted to monitor Mr Ws heart 
rhythm because an irregular rhythm could cause blackouts. The implant recorded that Mr W 
did experience episodes of a low heartbeat and it was those findings that led to him having 
the pacemaker fitted to treat the issue. 
So Im persuaded that the fitting of the pacemaker that led to Mr and Mrs W having to cancel 
their trip was directly linked to Mr Ws previously undiagnosed condition that he was 
undergoing tests for. This means I think the pre-existing condition policy exclusion does 
apply to this claim.
Did ERGO make it clear enough that Mr Ws undiagnosed condition wouldnt be covered?
Mr and Mrs W say the policy paperwork didnt make it clear that the undiagnosed condition 
wouldnt be covered. Ive carefully considered the policy schedule. Under the Declared 
Medical Conditions box for Mr W it states: Cancer  EXCLUDE PRE-EXISTING. 
I accept the schedule only mentions the type of cancer Mr W had. It doesnt refer to the 
undiagnosed condition. But I agree with the investigator that it wouldve been difficult for 
ERGO to list the condition when it didnt know what it was. It mightve been helpful if the 
schedule had simply stated that all pre-existing conditions were excluded. 
But even if I didnt think the paperwork was clear enough, I dont think this would be enough 
to fairly say that Mr and Mrs W hadnt been told that the undiagnosed condition wasnt 
covered.
Thats because Ive listened closely to the sales call between Mrs W and the call handler. 
Mrs W explained about Mr Ws blackouts and that his doctors were carrying out a full range 
of tests to rule out things. The call handler clearly explained that because Mr W was 
undergoing tests, ERGO would have to exclude cover for all pre-existing medical conditions. 
Having listened to the call, it seems Mrs W understood what the call handler was saying 
before agreeing to go ahead with the policy. And she agreed shed call back if she had new 
information about the tests.
So I think ERGO made it sufficiently clear to Mrs W that thered be no cover for any of Mr 
Ws conditions, not just limited to excluding the cancer hed had. And shed chosen to buy 
the policy on that basis.
Mrs W also called ERGO to update it on what was happening with Mr Ws health. She let it 
know about the implant to monitor his heart. Im satisfied the call handler clearly let Mrs W 
know that this condition and all pre-existing conditions werent covered during this call. So if 
Mrs W had been confused by the policy schedule, I think she couldve raised it here. And I 
think shed have likely understood the limitations on the policy cover. 
This means I think ERGO did, overall, make it clear enough that Mr Ws pre-existing 
conditions wouldnt be covered.Did ERGO cause Mr and Mrs W to lose out?
Its clear that one of ERGOs call handlers did give Mrs W the wrong information about her 
situation. She suggested that because the fitting of the pacemaker wasnt linked to Mr Ws 
cancer, and was an unforeseen event, Mrs W could look into making a claim. Mr and Mrs W 
told us that on the basis of that conversation, they cancelled their holiday rather than 
rescheduling it at a substantially lower cost.
I understand how frustrated Mr and Mrs W mustve been when they learned the claim wasnt 
covered. But having listened to the call, Im satisfied the call handler didnt tell Mrs W the 
claim would definitely be covered. She told Mrs W she could look into making a claim and to 
get in touch with the claims department.  I can understand though why Mrs W mightve had 
an expectation following the call that the claim would be met. 
But Ive also borne in mind that when the possibility of needing to cancel the trip arose, Mrs 
W called ERGO. This was shortly before the above call. The call handler clearly explained to 
Mrs W that because the surgery was directly related to the tests Mr W had been having, any 
claim was unlikely to be covered.  The call handler also suggested that Mrs W should get in 
touch with the claims team.
Given the very conflicting information Mrs W received and the fact both call handlers did 
direct her to get in touch with the claims team, it wouldve been reasonable for her to do so 
before taking any action to cancel her trip. If shed done so, shed likely have been informed 
at an early stage that the claim simply wasnt covered. So I dont think I can fairly tell ERGO 
to pay Mr and Mrs Ws claim on this basis.
I do have a great deal of sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ws position. But overall, I simply dont 
think their claim was covered. So I think it was fair and reasonable for ERGO to turn it down.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman