DRN-2247703
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc wont refund money he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr M fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred as follows.
Mr M was contacted by email by who he thought was a well-known friend and colleague, 
regarding a payment that was due. In response to the email, on 22 March 2019 at 8:12am, 
Mr M made an online payment of £740 to the account details he had been provided in the 
email. But unknown to him at the time the email had been intercepted and Mr M had sent the 
money to a scammer.
On realising the money hadnt reached his friend and colleague Mr M contacted Co-op on    
3 April 2019 to report the scam. Co-op contacted the receiving bank on 7 May 2019, but was 
advised that no funds remained and that the funds had been removed from the recipient 
account on 22 March 2019 by 11:45am.
Mr M complained to Co-op, as he thought there was a weakness in the system and the 
recipient wasnt properly identified before the payment was allowed to be processed. Mr M 
has said he wasnt negligent in anyway and considers Co-op should accept responsibility as 
it did not recognise a security threat.
Mr M added that he understands there is new legislation that requires the banks to 
reimburse where it can be demonstrated a customer hadnt been negligent.
Co-op looked into Mr Ms complaint and it issued its final response on 20 August 2019. It 
said that when the payment was first attempted it had been declined, but then Mr M had 
contacted it with new details and requested for the payment to be processed again.  
Co-op has said when Mr M first raised with it what had happened, in April 2019, it didnt 
follow its correct process in raising the matter as a scam. When Mr M contacted it again, 
having not received a response, the Co-op raised the payment with the receiving bank, but 
sadly no funds remained.  Co-op also acknowledged that it failed to respond to two letters Mr 
M had sent it.
Co-op said it wasnt required to check the payee name when the payment was processed. It 
did not consider it had made an error in sending the money to the sort code and account 
number Mr M had provided it. It added that while it acted in line in trying to recover the 
money  there had been errors in following the wrong process and it didnt reply in a timely 
manner.  For this it credited Mr Ms account with £75 to apologise.   
Mr M then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator on first view thought the payment Mr M was making should have 
caused Co-op cause for concern and that Co-op could have provided a warning, which our 
investigator thought would have made a difference.  But on reflection, our investigator 
reconsidered their position and didnt think the payment being made was so unusual, 
compared to how Mr M typically ran his account, that he would have expected Co-op to have 
intervened. Overall, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He said he did everything reasonable to establish 
the details of the payee and maintains the bank should accept some responsibility.  Mr M 
agreed that the £740 was not an unusual sum, but that other sums of similar amounts hes 
paid were to established accounts that hed paid before.
Mr M also raised that the receiving bank account was in a different name to what he had set 
the payment up for.
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr M, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about 
Co-ops actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave Mr Ms 
account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and recover the 
money.  
So having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say Co-op should 
reimburse him the £740 he has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
- the law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare duty); and
- regulated firms like Co-op are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6);
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken
proactive steps to:identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers
from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Co-op acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr M, when Mr M made a transfer to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or whether 
it should have done more than it did.
Mr M has accepted that he authorised the transfer himself. Because of this, Co-op had an 
obligation to follow his instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Co-op shouldve been on the lookout 
for unusual and out of character transactions.
Having reviewed Mr Ms account activity for the six-month period leading up to the scam, I 
dont think the payment Mr M made to the fraudster was particularly unusual or out of 
character in comparison to the normal account activity, and I note Mr M hasnt disputed this. 
Mr M had made several transactions for amounts in excess of £500 during this time. 
Ive considered Mr M has said that these other payments were to payees hes paid before, 
but I dont think making a payment to a new payee is in itself enough for me to fairly consider 
that Co-op ought to have questioned the payment. So, on balance, I dont think the payment 
made, of £740, was so out of character or unusual, compared with how the account was 
typically run, that I could fairly have expected Co-op to have made enquiries about the 
payment before processing it. 
Ive thought about what Mr M has said about the receiving bank account being in a different 
name, to what Mr M had indicated on his payment instruction. At the time the payment was 
made, the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) set 
out that payments are sent according to unique identifiers (typically the account number 
and sort code).  In particular, section 90 of the PSR 2017 states: (1) Where a payment order 
is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the payment order is deemed to have 
been correctly executed by each payment service provider involved in executing the 
payment order with respect to the payee specified by the unique identifier.
The impact of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went to the account 
number and sort code instructed by the payer. There was no regulatory requirement for    
Co-op to check the beneficiary account any further. So I cant fairly say that Co-op didnt 
follow Mr Ms instruction when it sent the payment to the account number and sort code 
provided, and I am not persuaded it should have done more to check the beneficiary name 
in the circumstances of this payment.Ive gone on to think about whether Co-op did what it shouldve done once Mr M reported to 
it that hed been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts Co-op made to recover 
the money, once Mr M reported the scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Co-op to 
refund the money to Mr M, I need to be satisfied that Co-op should have acted sooner in 
trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide 
whether it made any difference.
In this case I can see Co-op didnt raise the complaint against the receiving bank when Mr M 
first reported it and it wasnt until Mr M chased Co-op for a response, that it set up the scam 
case correctly and notified the receiving bank. But sadly none of the money Mr M had paid 
remained, because it had already been removed from the recipients account. Ive also seen 
that even if the Co-op had contacted the receiving bank, as soon as it ought to have done, it 
wouldnt have made a difference.  As the funds had been removed from the receiving 
account on the day they had been paid and prior to Mr M first raising the matter with Co-op. 
I understand Mr M has mentioned a reimbursement model. I think the model Mr M is 
referring to is The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code). The CRM code was 
introduced in May 2019, but it isnt retrospective  so the CRM code is not something I can 
consider when looking at this complaint, as it came in after Mr M had made this payment.
Co-op recognised the service it provided could have been better, it didnt set the scam case 
up as soon as it ought to have done and didnt respond to Mr M in a timely manner.  It has 
paid Mr M £75 in recognition of these errors, which I think is fair in the circumstances. 
Its very unfortunate Mr M has lost this money to what is a cruel scam, and I understand the 
whole experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I 
dont think I can fairly say Co-op should have done more to prevent him losing this money. 
So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Co-op to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against   
The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman