DRN-4309472
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the service Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax provided after she 
was a victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
Its not in dispute that Ms M authorised the disputed payment in question. On 
18 January 2023 Ms M paid £1,411 using her debit card, to the scammer for airline 
tickets to India. She then logged into her online banking application to validate the 
payment.
While I accept that Ms M didnt intend for her money to go to the fraudsters, under 
the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) Ms M is presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance as the payments were authorised by her. This is unless there is 
sufficient evidence that Halifax should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
protect Ms M.
Halifax does have a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments, and one of the 
reasons for this is to prevent fraud and scams. Halifax needs to have systems in 
place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its 
consumers are at risk of fraud. With that in mind, Ive considered whether Halifax 
should have considered the payment as being sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic 
that it ought to have given it sufficient grounds for suspecting fraud.
While I accept that the amount of money Ms M sent is clearly significant to her, this 
doesnt in itself suggest a heightened risk of fraud. I also acknowledge that the 
transactions were larger than usual for the account. But I am not persuaded this 
would have stood out as unusual or suspicious. Ms M sent made the payment by 
debit card and then authorized the payments on her online banking application.
Its important to note that there is a difficult balance to be struck between firms 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments. Of course, we need to consider that spending habits change, 
unusual needs arise, and it will be impossible to prevents all fraud without a 
significant number of genuine payments being delayed considerably and 
inconveniently.
Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Halifaxs 
systems to have been triggered by the payment in dispute. I dont think Halifax could 
reasonably have known that these payments were subject of a scam. The payments 
were not significant enough to have triggered its systems; nor were there sufficient 
grounds to justify delaying the payments.
I have gone on to consider if Halifax took reasonable steps to try and recover the 
funds. It raised a chargeback claim when Ms M made it aware of the circumstances. 
But the chargeback request was declined as the company stated it did provide a 
service and it couldnt be considered as fraud under this scheme as Ms M had 
authorised the payment herself. As such, I am satisfied Halifax couldnt do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman