DRN-3616194
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) refuse to allow card payments he 
wants to make for an investment through a third-party company (TPC).
What happened
Mr P holds a bank account and credit card account with Barclays. He also holds an account 
with a TPC which buys, trades and hold cryptocurrencies. 
In or around May 2022, Mr P attempted to make card payments from his Barclays accounts 
to his account with the TPC, but he was unable to complete the payment(s). He was told his 
cards werent supported for the required transactions as Barclays wouldnt authorise the 
payments. 
Mr P called Barclays in order to understand why theyd refused the card payment(s). Initially, 
Barclays couldnt identify that any payments had been refused. But after further 
investigation, Barclays explained they no longer supported payments to the TPC as that 
company wasnt FCA regulated.
Mr P wasnt happy with Barclays explanation. He didnt think it was right they could dictate 
who he could make payments to and he didnt think the TCPs lack of FCA registration was 
relevant. He asked Barclays to escalate matters as a complaint. To resolve matters, he 
wanted them to fix the problem. He said that he would have to find an alternative way to 
make payments to the TCP which would cost him more. He thought Barclays should pay him 
compensation of around £200 to cover his losses from not being able to make payments 
through them going forward.
Barclays told Mr P they wouldnt consider paying compensation in these circumstances and 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong. Mr P wasnt happy with Barclays response. He 
wanted to escalate matters further. Barclays explained Mr P could escalate his complaint to 
this service. But they wouldnt uphold his complaint as payments to this TPC wasnt a 
service they offer. Barclays confirmed their stance in a summary resolution letter.
Mr P contacted this service and asked us to investigate his complaint further. Having 
considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think Barclays had acted 
unfairly or needed to do anything more.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators findings. He didnt think Barclays were allowed to tell 
him what he can and cant do with his own money. He said he understood the risks 
associated with trading/investing.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed Barclays account terms and conditions. In particular, they include:
Well do all we can to carry out your instructions. However, we dont have to follow an 
instruction for any of these reasons
It would mean we might break a law, regulation, code or other duty that applies to us.
It could expose us to claims from third parties.
We reasonably believe it might expose us (or another Barclays company) to legal 
action or censure from any government, regulator or law enforcement agency. 
We reasonably think that a payment into or out of an account is connected to a fraud, 
scam or any other criminal activity. This includes where we reasonably think the 
funds are being obtained through deception.
They also say, We may make changes to your agreement with us for any of these 
reasonsA change in the law, a regulation, an industry code we follow, or a decision of the 
court, a regulator or the Financial Ombudsman means that we need to make changes.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a warning in June 2021 in relation to the 
TPC receiving the funds here. The warning said that this company was offering UK 
customers products and services for which it doesnt hold UK registration or authorisation. 
Theres also been suggestions that this TPC was previously reported as being subject to 
investigation for other illegal and fraudulent activities.
Barclays have told this service that they took the decision to decline and stop payments to 
this TPC by credit/debit card. Barclays have a duty to protect their customers and their 
money from fraudulent and criminal activity. Stopping payments to the TPC was a 
commercial decision made by Barclays following an FCA announcement. I can see from the 
announcement the FCA published, its alongside information about investing in 
cryptocurrency more generally and the risks associated with it.
While I appreciate and understand Mr Ps frustrations, Ive considered what Barclays have 
said alongside the FCAs guidance. While I realise Mr P will be disappointed, I dont believe 
Barclays actions were inappropriate here, and Im satisfied they acted in their own best 
interests and those of Mr P, as a consumer. Its up to Barclays to make a commercial 
decision about the risks theyre willing to take, and our service doesnt have the powers to 
change that. So, Im satisfied that Barclays acted fairly and reasonably, in line with their 
terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman