DRN-3870792
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs S complain that TICORP Limited mis-sold their travel insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the crux of Mr H and Mrs S complaint is the sale of their travel insurance policy, 
which is the responsibility of TICORP. They say that when they bought the policy, they were 
told theyd be covered for any problems that occurred.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
Mr H and Mrs S took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy online, which 
covered their family. This was a non-advised sale which meant TICORP needed to 
provide enough information that was clear, fair and not misleading, so Mr H and 
Mrs S could make an informed choice about whether the policy was right for them.
Ive gone through the sales journey for the policy Mr H and Mrs S bought. I cant see 
anything to suggest that the policy would cover every scenario, as theyve said. And 
no travel insurance policy would provide such cover. Overall, Im not persuaded that 
TICORP misled Mr H and Mrs S about the cover they were purchasing in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The online sales journey included a summary of cover, but I can also see that Mr H 
and Mrs S had the opportunity to review the full policy terms and Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) before buying the policy, as these were available during 
the online sales process. Mr H has also sent a screenshot showing an order date of 
2 February 2022, and a start date of 8 February 2022. This says that You will shortly 
receive an email regarding your policy documents.
Overall, I dont think TICORP has mis-sold the policy or treated Mr H and Mrs S 
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr H and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman