DRN-2892917
The complaint
Mr W complains that Experian Limited wont give details about how his credit score is 
calculated. Mr W says Experian should take income and assets into account when 
calculating a credit score. Mr W also complains that Experian doesnt disclose how much 
commission its paid and that its Boost service allows it to sell financial information. 
What happened
Mr W has explained he has always had excellent credit but following a dispute with a 
financial business, some adverse information was recorded on his credit file. In 2019 Mr W 
complained to Experian about various issues. Mr W said it was unclear how Experian 
derived its credit score or how to improve it. Mr W also complained that Experian failed to 
declare commission it receives and that its adverts are misleading. Mr W also raised 
concerns about the Boost service offered by Experian. 
Experian responded to Mr Ws complaint but didnt agree any errors had been made. 
Experian said the credit score it generated wasnt shared with businesses. Experian advised 
businesses take information from a credit file and use it for a range of purposes, including 
assessing applications for borrowing. Experian didnt explain how it derived the credit score 
it gives customers. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Experian had dealt with Mr Ws complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr D asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W has explained he wants to know how his score is calculated but Experian wont 
provide that information. Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but I wouldnt expect Experian to 
share commercially sensitive information concerning how it derives its credit score. Experian 
has provided details of the type of information and factors it takes into account when 
generating a credit score. Im satisfied Experian has given a general explanation of the 
information it considers which is a fair approach in the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint. 
Id also add that whilst Experian does give a score, lenders and other businesses will use 
their own criteria to decide what products to offer. The pricing of products and interest rates 
offered will likely take the information on a consumers credit file into account but will also 
use other factors based on the lenders criteria and type of credit being applied for. Experian 
has explained, whilst it may have given Mr Ws credit file a particular score, its up to 
individual businesses to decide whether to offer lending and the costs involved by assessing 
an application. 
Experian has also confirmed its score isnt shared with businesses when a credit search is 
carried out. I think thats a reasonable point and whilst I note Mr W feels lenders use the 
credit score Experian provides to consumers, I havent found that to be the case. 
Mr W has explained that he feels Experian should take other factors, like income and assets 
into account, when calculating its score. But, Experian is free to decide how to calculate 
credit scores and what information it takes into account when doing that. Its a matter for 
Experians commercial judgement. 
Mr W has explained hes concerned that by using the Boost service it will give Experian 
access to his accounts and information about products he holds. Mr W has explained he 
feels this information will then be used by Experian to either sell or market other products. 
Experian says its Boost service allows customers to share information concerning certain 
regular payments. But the Boost service doesnt relate to insurance or other associated 
products as Mr W has suggested. Theres no obligation on Mr W to use Experians Boost 
service if hes concerned about how it operates. 
I understand Mr W is looking for ways to improve his credit score. But, as Experian has said, 
the score it provides is only a reflection of its opinion of the information it receives. The score 
isnt shared with anyone else. So improving Experians score wont necessarily mean 
Mr Ws ability to borrow or interest rates hes offered will improve. Its the information 
Experian collects from other businesses and organisations that is reported on Mr Ws credit 
file that will impact what sort of products and credit hes able to obtain. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but Im satisfied Experian has dealt with his complaint fairly. As 
a result, Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman