DRN-2571921
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs S complain about the interest rate charged on their mortgage with Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs S have a mortgage with Halifax. In 2014 they took a two-year fixed rate, 
expiring in 2016.
In the meantime, because of financial difficulties elsewhere, Mr M and Mrs S entered into 
Individual Voluntary Arrangements (IVAs) to deal with their unsecured debt.
Mr M and Mrs S say that they asked for a new interest rate when the old one expired in 
2016, only to be told they werent eligible for a rate because of the IVAs. So they went on to 
the higher standard variable rate (SVR).
In 2018, Mr M and Mrs S asked Halifax for a new interest rate. They took a five-year rate, 
which expires in 2023.
Mr M and Mrs S now complain about their mortgage. They say firstly that they should have 
been offered a rate and not kept on the SVR from 2016. And they say the 2018 rate was 
mis-sold, because it tied them in for a long time  as interest rates have since fallen, they 
havent been able to switch to take advantage of a new rate without paying an early 
repayment charge (ERC).
Halifax said that in 2018, it discussed both two- and five-year rates with Mr M and Mrs S, 
and it was their decision to take the five-year rate. At the time, they were worried interest 
rates might rise and wanted to fix for a longer term, knowing their family budget would be 
stable. It couldnt have been known at the time that interest rates would later fall. And it said 
that there was no evidence of Mr M and Mrs S making an application in 2016  but if they 
had applied, being in an IVA would not have stopped them getting a rate. 
Our investigator said that she thought the 2018 recommendation was suitable for Mr M and 
Mrs S. and she didnt think there was enough evidence to support Mr M and Mrs Ss 
recollection of what happened in 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by considering what happened in 2016. Mr M has said that he remembers having a 
discussion with a Halifax adviser who told him that he wasnt eligible for a new interest rate 
because of the IVA.
Mr Ms recollection of this discussion is clear  and hes been consistent about it. He told our 
investigator about it in 2021, and he also mentioned it on the 2018 call in which he did apply 
for a rate. 
However, theres no independent evidence of that conversation beyond Mr Ms recollection. 
Its not recorded in Halifaxs notes or records relating to Mr M and Mrs Ss mortgage. Halifax 
has searched its systems for calls from the phone numbers Mr M gave it, and has no record 
of having received a call from any of those numbers in 2016. 
While the absence of a record of the call in Halifaxs systems isnt definitive, it is persuasive. 
And I bear in mind that it wasnt in fact Halifaxs policy to refuse a rate because a customer 
was in an IVA  so Mr M and Mrs S should have been offered a rate in 2016 if theyd asked 
for one.
But I must also bear in mind that human memory is fallible and can be influenced by later 
events, emotions and beliefs. Its possible, for example, that Mr M believed Halifax wouldnt 
offer him a rate, or that someone else told him that it wouldnt  and Mr M later, mistakenly, 
came to believe that it was Halifax which had told him that. 
On the one hand, I have Mr Ms testimony of his recollection  but with no documentary 
evidence to support his testimony. On the other hand, I have the evidence of Halifaxs 
records  evidence of the absence of a record.
On balance, Im not persuaded that this call took place. I dont doubt the honesty with which 
Mr M now recollects it; Im sure he does genuinely believe that call took place. But in the 
absence of documentary evidence from the time  and knowing that what he believes he 
was told was not in fact Halifaxs policy  I dont think I can safely say that its more likely 
than not that Mr M and Mrs S applied for a rate and were turned away in 2016.
Turning now to 2018, Ive looked at the reasons for recommendation document produced 
in 2018  which records the discussion between Mr M and Mrs S and Halifax, and the advice 
Halifax gave them. It says that Mr M and Mrs S wanted their payments to be fixed for five 
years, so Halifax recommended a five-year term. And the notes of the discussion between 
them record that Mr M and Mrs S were concerned about the impact of higher costs if interest 
rates were to rise  and were more concerned about that than about being tied in if they 
were to fall.
Im satisfied that the notes made at the time are a reasonably accurate record of the 
discussions. They show that Mr M and Mrs S considered the possibility of interest rates 
rising and of interest rates falling  and decided that they would rather be protected against 
rates rising than have the chance of benefitting from them falling. So they decided to fix their 
mortgage payments for five years. Ive also listened to the call in which Mr M applied for the 
rate, and he made it clear that his expectation was that rates were likely to rise significantly 
in the next couple of years.
This was a reasonable position to have taken at the time  when the impact of the covid-19 
pandemic on interest rates in 2020 couldnt have been foreseen. And the interest rate 
Halifax recommended met Mr M and Mrs Ss preferences and requirements at that time.
Taking a fixed rate is always something of a gamble, involving as it does protection against 
future rate rises by sacrificing the possibility of benefitting from their fall. If rates had risen, it 
wouldnt be fair for Halifax to bring the rate to an end early to impose a higher fixed rate  
and for the same reasons, its not fair to expect Halifax to incur the costs of ending the fixed 
rate and waiving the ERC to allow Mr M and Mrs S to benefit from a lower rate.
I do understand Mr M and Mrs Ss frustrations at how things turned out. But Im satisfied they 
made a rational choice in 2018 based on what was knowable at the time and Im satisfied that Halifax recommended a suitable interest rate based on that choice. I dont therefore 
think I can fairly uphold this part of their complaint either.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman