DRN-3745157
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank irresponsibly 
provided her with a credit card when she was unable to afford the repayments.
What happened
Tesco issued a credit card to Mrs M in March 2016 with a credit limit of £3,200. She carried 
out a balance transfer of £3,000 within the first month, and made payments until October 
2017 when she started to get into difficulties. She continued to make payments but her 
account got into arrears. She tells us that she only managed to pay it off with the help of 
family and friends. I see this was in late January and early February 2022. She complained 
to Tesco that it had irresponsibly provided the card to her.
Tesco said it had carried out the necessary checks including a credit check. It didnt verify 
her income. It assessed that Mrs M would be able to afford the repayments on the card.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our adjudicator said he believed the information 
Tesco gathered showed that Mrs M could likely afford the credit card as it appeared she 
would have had enough income to make regular, sustainable repayments.
Mrs M disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs M would have been able to do so?
I have considered the checks Tesco carried out. Although it hasnt shown us the full details 
of the credit check it carried out, and didnt verify Mrs Ms income, I dont think theres much 
dispute about the level of debt Mrs M had at the time of her application for the credit card. 
Mrs M had an income of around £2,000 a month. She had no defaults and no
County Court Judgements. Her existing debt was made up of a total of around £14,000 in 
revolving balances (e.g. credit card, mail order or store accounts) and £335 in loan balances. 
Tesco assessed that she was paying around £421 a month in revolving balance repayments 
and £60 a month in loan repayments. This was allowing a payment of 3% a month on the 
revolving credit balances. It used Office for National Statistics (ONS) data to assess her 
living expenses at a monthly £600 and a further £600 on her mortgage. Tesco then 
assessed that she would have around £440 disposable income.
Mrs M has disputed the monthly payments but hasnt provided us with any details. She has 
also said she was maxed out on her other cards. I do have to take into account the 
purpose of her taking out the credit card, which was to make a balance transfer of £3,000 
from (presumably) another credit card. She would have had a 0% interest rate on this for 
40 months (if she kept up the payments). So the effect of taking out the Tesco card should 
have been not to reduce her overall balances but to reduce the overall payments. And the 
new credit card shouldnt have increased her overall credit commitments (except by the 
payments due on £200 if she used that).
So taking that into account I think the repayments on the card were affordable to Mrs M. 
I think Tesco made a fair lending decision.  
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman