DRN-3355034
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the way Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) settled a claim they made 
on their landlords insurance policy following an escape of water. 
Any reference to Lloyds in this decision also includes its contractors.
What happened
In 2014, there was an escape of water at Mr and Mrs Ms property. The claim was accepted 
by Lloyds, but a complaint was later brought to this service about severe delays in the claim. 
This service issued a final decision in 2019 directing Lloyds to ensure that all of the
damage caused by the escape of water be rectified according to the terms of the policy.
In 2021 Mr and Mrs M made a further complaint to Lloyds. They said whilst Lloyds had 
carried out work to most of the downstairs of the property affected by the escape of water, it 
hadnt carried out any work to the downstairs bathroom. They felt the damage should be 
covered by Lloyds. They also claimed damage to a lean to at the side of the property hadnt 
been done and were unhappy that paintwork at the front of the property was declined as not 
being related to the claim.
Lloyds said the bathroom was in a poor state of repair, prior to the escape of water. It said 
any damage wasnt related to the claim, and so it isnt responsible for carrying out any 
repairs. It also said the redecoration of the front of the property was declined as it was down 
to wear and tear, and not due to the escape of water. It did however agree to cover repairs 
to the floor of the lean to and said it would progress matters. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr and Mrs M brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought it was most likely that the damage to the bathroom had been caused by 
the escape of water, so she recommended Lloyds carry out reinstatement works to the 
bathroom. She also thought the evidence showed the paintwork on the lower half of the front 
of the property suggested it was linked to the water damage. She said the upper part of the 
render seemed to be in a better position, so Lloyds should contribute 50% to having this 
redecorated. As Lloyds had changed its position on the lean to, she didnt consider this any 
further.
There were other issues raised by Mr and Mrs M relating to a door and a gas certificate. Our 
investigator said as these concerns hadnt been raised and addressed by Lloyds, she hadnt 
considered them as part of this complaint. 
Lloyds accepted our investigators position on the redecoration of the front of the property 
and agreed to pay a 50% contribution. But it didnt agree to cover the reinstatement of the 
bathroom. It asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter, so it has been brought to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator set out, Im aware Mr and Mrs M have had to raise other issues with 
Lloyds which are being considered separately, so I wont comment on those as part of this 
decision. 
In addition, as Lloyds and Mr and Mrs M have accepted the position relating to the 
redecoration works at the front of the property and the lean to, this decision will only focus on 
whether Lloyds should also be responsible for reinstating the bathroom as part of the claim. 
From what I can see, Lloyds never inspected the bathroom after the escape of water in 
2014, so theres no evidence from the time of the claim to support whether the damage was 
caused by an insured event or not. It seems accepted that Lloyds should have done more in 
2014 to determine the extent of the damage, and a previous final decision issued by this 
service awarded Mr and Mrs M compensation for that delay and the impact it had on Mr and 
Mrs M. There was also a report carried out in November 2017, the findings of which were:
Regrettably, insufficient evidence was gathered to determine whether or not the 
damp proof course had already failed at the time of the initial notification of the 
claim.
So Im not satisfied Lloyds can evidence that the current problems with the bathroom arent 
linked to the 2014 claim. 
There have been several reports commissioned by Lloyds since 2017. So Ive reviewed 
these to see what inspection or comments were made on the damage to the bathroom. In 
doing so, I havent found any evidence which states the damage to the bathroom was most 
likely not as a result of the initial escape of water. 
I have seen a report from Lloyds dated June 2017 which states:
We toured the ground floor, and on all walls bar the lounge partitions there are damp 
symptoms, with blistered paintwork crumbling plasterwork and in the bathroom tiles 
have debonded. Timber skirtings were also rotting and deteriorating. We took 
moisture content readings throughout the ground floor, and the low level walls, bar 
the lounge partitions, all have high readings.
Given this report mentions the bathroom, Im satisfied it is included. And there are no 
conclusions to this report which suggests any of the damage reported shouldnt be covered 
by Lloyds. It is also clear from other reports that the kitchen suffered substantial damage. 
The bathroom and kitchen share a partition wall. Lloyds has accepted the kitchen has been 
severely affected by the flood. So on balance, Im not persuaded by Lloyds comments that 
any damage to the bathroom couldnt have also been caused by the escape of water.
In 2021, Mr and Mrs M had this bathroom stripped out as they were concerned there was 
damage, and the wall between the bathroom and kitchen was found to be wet. This is 
supported by the photographs provided by Mr and Mrs M. I accept they havent provided an 
expert report showing this is linked to the original claim. But given what is set out above 
regarding the state of the other downstairs walls, I think its more likely the damp in the 
bathroom is also connected to the escape of water and hadnt been properly rectified by 
Lloyds.
It seems to me that the evidence Lloyds has sought to rely on in 2021 to decline the claim 
relates to some tiles being missing from the bathroom. Lloyds says this damage wouldnt 
have been caused by the escape of water, as there is evidence the wall where the tiles 
attach had been replastered at some point. But none of Lloyds experts comment on the wall 
being wet, and why theyre not persuaded the damp issues in the bathroom cant be linked 
to the claim.So whilst there is little evidence on either side to definitively say what caused the current 
damage to the bathroom, Im more persuaded that the damage is linked to the original claim, 
and so should be covered by Lloyds. 
Mr and Mrs M have asked whether Lloyds can carry out the work to the downstairs 
bathroom as well as some other work (unrelated to the claim) to an upstairs bathroom, for 
which they will pay. Given the work needed to the upstairs bathroom doesnt seem to be 
linked to the claim, I cant require Lloyds to agree to this. But it seems to me a fair way to 
resolve this part of the complaint is for Lloyds to carry out the necessary reinstatement 
works to the bathroom. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Society of Lloyds should carry out the necessary reinstatement 
works to the downstairs bathroom. It should also pay 50% towards the redecoration costs at 
the front of the property and carry out the agreed works to the lean to. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman