DRN-3790777
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) charged him excessive fees and interest on 
his credit card account when he was in financial difficulties. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think BoS acted fairly and applied charges and interest in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. And I dont instruct it to refund any of the interest or 
charges applied to Mr Ms credit card account. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Mr M had a separate complaint about excessive overdraft charges on his BoS current 
account, which was upheld. I want to make it clear that this is a separate complaint about a 
separate product and so it will be assessed according to what is fair and reasonable for the 
type of product complained about. 
Mr M says that from 2016 onwards, it was clear he was in financial difficulties so the interest 
rate on his credit card account should not have been increased. He felt he was in persistent 
debt at that time and this should have been an indication he was in financial difficulties. He 
also felt his inability to meet repayments, paying over £500 in fees and charges for missed or 
late payments as well as having a payment holiday due to COVID were all signs he was 
struggling and that BoS should have picked up on these. 
Ive considered these points in turn. 
Persistent debt
In 2018 the FCA issued rules for businesses to follow where a customer is in persistent debt. 
Persistent debt is when a customer has paid more in interest, fees and charges than theyve 
repaid towards the capital they owe over the previous 18 months, and businesses should 
assess whether a customer falls within this definition at least once a month.
Ive looked at Mr Ms account in light of this and have considered his statements from 2016 
onwards. These show that in total, Mr M has paid significantly more towards the capital 
owed than he has paid in interest and charges on the account. And this has been consistent 
year on year, meaning on average he has consistently paid more towards the capital owed 
on the credit card than he has been charged in interest and fees on the account. Because of 
this, the account does not meet the definition of persistent debt as set out in the FCA rules. 
So, I dont think this would have been an indication to BoS that Mr M was struggling 
financially at the time. 
Fees and charges
Mr M says he missed consecutive payments which led to him incurring late payments fees of 
over £500. Looking at his statements for the credit card account I can see that since 2014, 
he has incurred 10 late payment fees, totalling £120. The most in one year being three late 
payment fees. On balance, I dont consider this to be so excessive as to expect BoS to have 
picked up on this as a sign of financial difficulties. 
I also note that Mr M incurred a total of 13 overlimit fees since 2014, totalling £156, and 
some of these were concurrent. But again, I dont think that this on its own signifies that     
Mr M was in financial difficulties at the time and that BoS should have picked up on this. 
To clarify, Mr M has mentioned specific rules that lenders must follow which are set out by 
the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). CONC 1.3 gives examples which may indicate a consumer is in financial 
difficulties. 
These include but are not limited to:
consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store 
card;
inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills).
Mr M often paid over the minimum repayments on his credit card and where he did fail to 
meet a repayment, this was quickly rectified. And looking at his current account, there are 
only two instances of a payment, in this case an insurance payment, being returned as 
unpaid from 2016 onwards. So, on balance, I dont think BoS had enough indication that    
Mr M was in financial difficulties.  
Payment holiday
Looking at BoS internal notes, it appears Mr M applied for a COVID related payment holiday 
in April 2020, which was extended in July 2020 for a further three months. The payment 
holiday meant that Mr M did not have to make any payments to his credit card account 
during that time and this would not be reported on his credit file. However, interest would 
continue to accrue on the account.
The payment holiday was a short-term solution for any difficulties caused by the pandemic 
but was not necessarily an indicator of long-term financial difficulties. I can see that Mr M did 
not make a payment to the credit card account according to his April statement, and to be 
clear he was not required to under the payment holiday. But he did then make monthly 
credits to his account, despite the payment holiday meaning he did not have to, from May 
onwards. And I cant see that he had any issues meeting his minimum monthly payments 
before or after the payment holiday. Considering this, I dont think there was any indication 
Mr M was in financial difficulties that the payment holiday was not an immediate solution for. 
So, I dont think that BoS should have done anything further in the circumstances. 
Looking at the internal notes on file, I cant see that Mr M has approached BoS at any stage 
and let them know he was in financial difficulties. And Ive explained above why I dont think 
the way in which Mr M was managing his credit card account indicated he was facing 
financial difficulties. This is because I cant see he consecutively failed to meet his minimum 
repayments to the extent this should have been picked up on, and I dont think the charges 
and fees he incurred were so significant that BoS should have noticed. I acknowledge that it may have been reasonable for BoS to review Mr Ms accounts 
holistically when it provided a refund of his overdraft fees on his current account that he held 
with them. If they had done so, I think its more likely they would have come to the same 
conclusion they came to in their final response letter in which they did not agree they had 
made his financial situation worse in relation to the credit card account. I say this because on 
the whole, Mr M appears to have managed his account well and there is no indication he 
was facing financial difficulties. 
Mr M has also raised the issue of the interest rate on the account increasing, which he feels 
BoS should not have implemented while he faced financial difficulties. As mentioned 
previously, as Mr M had not made BoS aware he was facing financial difficulties, and there 
was no indication from the management of his account that this was the case, I cant agree 
BoS have made an error in increasing the interest rate on the account. And I note that the 
terms and conditions of the account allowed for this. Mr M has also said he did not receive 
notice of the interest rate increase. There is an internal note that suggests communications 
were sent to Mr M regarding this, but I havent seen sight of a copy of the actual letter. 
Considering this was in January 2017, I dont think it is unreasonable that BoS no longer 
holds a copy of this letter. Ultimately, I dont think BoS made an error in increasing the 
interest rate and while I appreciate Mr M says otherwise, theres nothing to suggest he was 
not informed of the increase prior to it being implemented. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman