DRN-3441237
The complaint
Ms S says J D Williams & Company Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about two catalogue shopping accounts provided by J D Williams to Ms S.
Account A was opened in December 2012 with an initial credit limit of £125. This was then 
decreased to £110 in April 2013.
Account B was opened in May 2017 with an initial credit limit of £155. This limit was 
increased each month for five months reaching £1,000 in September 2017.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ss complaint in part. He thought that giving both Account A and 
B were not unreasonable lending decisions, nor were the first three limit increases on 
Account B. But he thought that J D Williams ought to have realised that Ms S wasnt in a 
position to sustainably repay any further credit on Account B by the time it increased the limit 
to £700 in August 2017.
J D Williams disagreed. In summary, it said what evidence had we used to conclude the limit 
increases were harmful; if a default was historic this would not stop it lending and Ms S 
managed Account B without problems until May 2018  the late payment in January 2018 
was due to her payday moving. 
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our
approach to these complaints is set out on our website and I have followed it here. 
Prior to providing credit to Ms S, J D Williams carried out a credit check using a credit
reference agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. And for the credit
limit increases it did the same, as well as assessing the spending and payment activity on 
Ms Ss account. 
Account A
J D Williams does not have details of all the checks it completed but that is not unreasonable 
given how long ago it was. From what I have seen however I think the checks J D Williams 
completed were proportionate given the amount of credit it offered, and I havent seen any 
evidence that there were any indicators that the opening credit might be unaffordable for Ms 
S. It could see she had no arrears or delinquent accounts elsewhere.
It follows I dont think J D Williams was wrong to provide Account A to Ms S.
Account B
Again J D Williams completed a credit check at application. This showed no adverse data, 
but the lender would have been aware of Ms Ss problems repaying Account A. However 
given the low opening limit it offered and the fact the payment problems were on a small 
balance around four years ago I dont think it was unreasonable for J D Williams to approve 
Ms Ss application with a £150 limit.
I have then looked at the monthly credit limit increases J D Williams advanced. I have some 
concerns that the frequency of the limit increases limited J D Williams ability to understand 
how any increase was impacting Ms S and whether or not it was financially harmful. But from 
what I can see based on both the internal and limited external data it seems it was not 
unreasonable for J D Williams to conclude Ms S was managing her credit well. And although 
I dont think that this, in itself, means that it knew she was in a position to sustainably repay 
an increased balance within a reasonable period, I find that the decisions to increase Ms Ss 
credit limit in June and July 2017 werent unreasonable. 
However by August 2017 when it gave a £700 limit J D Williams ought to have realised it 
was most likely any additional credit would not be sustainably affordable. By this point there 
was a trend of increased credit utilisation (despite the limit increases) and reduced 
repayments as a percentage of balance, barely exceeding minimum payment in June and 
July. The external data also showed Ms S was no longer up-to-date on all her credit 
elsewhere. In the round I think these factors combined ought to have suggested to the 
lender that any additional credit was at risk of not being sustainably affordable for Ms S.
It follows I find J D Williams was wrong to increase Ms Ss limit in August and September 
2017. I have carefully considered the comments it submitted in response to the investigators 
assessment but for the reasons set out above they do not change my conclusion. 
Putting things right on Account B
Ms S should pay the cash price for any goods she has kept. But I dont think Ms S should
have to pay any interest or charges on any balance over £500 from August 2017, so J D 
Williams should:
rework Ms Ss account to ensure that from August 2017 interest is only
charged on the first £500 outstanding, all late payment and over limit fees
should also be removed;
if an outstanding balance remains on Ms Ss account once all adjustments have
been made J D Williams should contact Ms S to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this;
if the effect of all adjustments results in there no longer being an outstanding
balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Ms S
along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made
until the date of settlement; and
amend Ms Ss credit file to remove all adverse information recorded from August 
2017 to date.
If J D Williams has sold the debt it should first try to buy it back. If it cant do this it must work
with the new owner to achieve the same outcome as the steps set out above. HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. J D Williams must 
give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Ss complaint in part. J D Williams & Company Limited must put things 
right as set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman