DRN-3036281
The complaint
Miss Gs complaint came up because of the way Nationwide Building Society handled her 
basic account when it went overdrawn. Her complaint has expanded, as shes unhappy with 
the steps Nationwide have taken over the years to help her with her mental health issues 
and gambling addiction.
What happened
In April 2019, Miss Gs basic account with Nationwide went overdrawn. This meant she 
couldnt access her disability benefit payments.
In my provisional decision I went into detail about what caused the overdraft. Miss Gs 
representative has come back on that with their view of the events, which differs in places to 
what I wrote. But its agreed that the overdraft was caused in part by two payments being 
taken by a car hire company on 4 April 2019. 
Miss G initially told Nationwide she hadnt hired a car from the hire company. That led them 
to investigate under their fraudulent transaction process. But they found the payments had 
been authorised using Miss Gs debit card.
Miss G then told Nationwide she thought someone shed trusted with the cards PIN had 
used it without her permission. Nationwide at that point refunded the money and told Miss G 
she wouldnt have to pay it back. But further investigation concluded the payment had been 
authorised by Miss G, so Nationwide took back the refund. 
In response to my provisional decision, Miss Gs representative has again explained Miss G 
had authorised the payments, but had got confused when they went out. They said this was 
because Miss G had been expecting the money to be taken as a single payment, but it was 
split in two. 
Miss G complained about Nationwides handling of the overdraft and disputed transactions. 
Shes particularly highlighted a call she had with Nationwide that challenged her when they 
first suspected the payments werent fraudulent. Miss Gs said the call left her feeling 
suicidal.
The complaint has also expanded beyond the events in March and April 2019. Miss Gs said 
she feels Nationwide didnt do enough to help her with mental health issues and a gambling 
addiction that shed told them about previously. She specifically complained that a block 
shed had put on her card in January 2017  stopping online transactions  had been 
removed without her realising when she got a new card.
Nationwide apologised for the way theyd handled the call that upset Miss G, and offered her 
£100 compensation for the upset caused. They also apologised for saying she wouldnt have 
to pay back the car rental refund, and offered £50 compensation for that.
Nationwide accepted that the block on online transactions had come off Miss Gs card  four 
days after it was added in January 2017. They said this happened because a new card had 
been issued. They felt they should have done more to tell Miss G this would happen when 
she asked for a replacement card. Nationwide offered £25 compensation for this part of the 
complaint, noting they werent sure if Miss G would have chosen to have the block put on 
her new card.
There were some other complaints that arose due to the way the complaint was handled. 
There were issues with what was provided to Miss Gs representative under a subject
access request (SAR). Nationwide offered a total of £150 compensation for those. And they 
offered a separate £75 compensation payment for some errors in their responses to Miss G.
I explained in my provisional decision how complaints about complaint handling and 
complaints on behalf of representatives arent covered by our jurisdiction. That point appears 
to have been accepted, so I wont mention it again here when considering the merits of the 
complaints we can look at. 
Unresolved, the complaint came to us. After our investigators view didnt resolve the matter, 
it came to me for a formal decision. I made a provisional decision, which allowed Miss G and 
Nationwide to consider and respond to my findings, before I made my final decision. 
I found there had been issues with the service Miss G received. But while I could see these 
had an emotional impact on Miss G, I concluded there hadnt been a financial loss. To put 
matters right, I felt Nationwides approach to pay compensation was right, but I said a total 
value of £750 would better recognise the overall impact their poor service had on Miss G. 
Nationwide have accepted my provisional decision. Miss Gs representative has discussed 
the facts of the case again, and said why they feel there was more wrong in what Nationwide 
did than I mentioned in my decision. But they havent specifically disagreed with the £750 
compensation figure that I put forward. 
Having considered the comments Ive received, Im now ready to make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided my provisional decision  to partly uphold Miss Gs complaint 
and have Nationwide pay a total of £750 compensation  is the right one for this case. Ill 
explain my decision again, touching on the same points that I made last time. Ill add to this 
where I feel it will help to show Miss G how her representatives latest comments have been 
considered.
While I appreciate Miss Gs representative has given a lot of detail about what they think 
Nationwide did wrong in this case, I intend to focus my explanation more on what should be 
done to put matters right. That  in my view  better fits the purpose of our service. Where a 
business has made mistakes, were not here to punish them  were trying to put people in 
the position they should have been in, if the service had been reasonable. 
Ive noted Nationwide said the card block added in January 2017 only lasted four days. 
Thats consistent with bank statements Ive seen from the time, which show online 
transactions continued after the block was requested.
Ive seen a document dated 6 April 2017 where Miss G appears to have disputed a 
transaction with Nationwide. The document shows me two things. Firstly, that Nationwide were aware of Miss Gs gambling problem in April 2017. And secondly, that Miss G was 
aware at that point that the block on her card hadnt worked properly. 
I cant see how the issue was resolved after that. But Miss Gs statements seem to show no 
online transactions from then until November 2017, suggesting the block was put back on 
the card. A call recording from November then tells me Miss G ordered a new card for the 
account. After that point, the statements show online transactions being made again.
So it looks like the problem  where the block hasnt been carried over when a new card was 
issued  has happened twice  in January and November 2017. Miss G appears to have 
fixed it once, in April 2017. But didnt the second time.
Nationwide havent done enough to meet Miss Gs needs on this point. They should have 
pointed out to her that the block wouldnt pass to a new card when she asked for one. With 
that information, Miss G would have been able to decide if she was happy with that or not.
But it looks like Miss G could have been aware that the block wouldnt pass to a new card 
when she asked for one in November 2017. Thats because shed already seen it happen 
back in January, becoming aware of it in April.
Even if the link between the new card being issued and the block disappearing wasnt clear, 
Miss G would likely still have been aware when the block stopped working, given she was 
aware when it happened in April 2017. Miss G doesnt look to have asked for it to be put on 
her November 2017 card  despite her likely awareness that it had stopped working  
suggesting she no longer wanted the block on her card at that point.
But I appreciate that the issues Miss Gs representative has told us she has made it difficult 
for Miss G to seek the help she needed from Nationwide to have the block put back on the 
card. The question for me is whether Nationwide should have done more in this case to 
proactively raise the issue with Miss G.
Given what they knew about her  certainly from April 2017 onwards  I would expect 
Nationwide to have been aware of the role gambling might play in Miss Gs ability to manage 
her account. And there were certainly a lot of gambling transactions on her account over the 
years. But looking at Miss Gs bank statements, I cant see a point where her management 
of the account has become majorly troubled, before the overdraft issue in April 2019.
Some of that is due to Miss G having only a basic account. That meant it didnt offer credit or 
overdraft facilities, limiting the amount of debt Miss G could build up.
Another factor is that Miss G seemed to have access to other accounts  with other 
providers  where Nationwide could have seen she was putting relatively large amounts of 
money. Miss Gs representative has explained what was happening to the money after it was 
moved to the other accounts  but thats not relevant when considering the information that 
was available to Nationwide. They wouldnt have been able to see more than Miss G 
frequently placing relatively large amounts of money in a savings account.
So Im still of the view Nationwide could have looked at Miss Gs ability to do that and 
concluded there wasnt too much of a problem for her. 
Thats not to say Miss G wasnt struggling. I appreciate her comments to us show shes had 
problems over the years that have affected her deeply. But I find its reasonable Nationwide 
havent done more prior to April 2019 to help Miss G with those problems. I cant see any 
major warnings or updates to make them aware there were any problems, up to that point.That changed though in April 2019. The basic account wasnt meant to go into a large 
overdraft, so the fact it did should have told Nationwide there was a problem.
I dont criticise Nationwide for initially dealing with this as a fraudulent transaction. Given 
what Miss G said to them, that was the right way to handle it. But ultimately that wasnt the 
right solution for the problem, because any refund given to Miss G would rightly be taken 
back when no evidence of a fraud was found.
It wasnt helpful for Nationwide to tell Miss G she wouldnt have to pay the refunded money 
back. I can appreciate how the person speaking to her could have thought that would be the 
case, given Miss G had described how a fraudulent transaction had taken place. But the 
person Miss G spoke to wasnt the one who would decide about that, so shouldnt have 
assumed what the outcome of the fraud process would be.
However, Ive heard a call from the following day  between Miss G, her representative, and 
Nationwide  where the refund was discussed again. During that call, Miss G and her 
representative discussed whether it was wise to have that refund, given it could be taken 
back. 
Miss Gs representative has indicated that conversation was actually about the refund for a 
different payment Miss G has said was fraudulent  one for holiday accommodation. On that 
payment both Nationwide and the business involved had refunded the money to Miss G, so 
Nationwide were going to take back what theyd paid. 
I feel the principle was clear from this  it would only be fair for Miss G to receive the refund 
from Nationwide if she was out of pocket due to a fraud. That wasnt the case with the car 
hire payments  which followed from Miss Gs decision to hire a car, rather than a fraud. I 
find there was enough in the follow up conversation to put right any confusion caused by the 
person saying earlier that Miss G wouldnt have to pay the car hire money back. 
I dont agree with Miss Gs representative that the refund should act as some sort of 
compensation for the issues in this case. It relates to the cost of hiring a car  a car Miss G 
accepts she chose to hire  not the impact on Miss G of Nationwides mistakes. It wouldnt 
be fair in my opinion to have Nationwide pay for Miss Gs car hire. 
Staying with the various phone calls in this case, Miss Gs described how one of them 
affected her, when she was confronted with Nationwides view that the payments that 
caused the overdraft werent fraudulent. I note Nationwide agreed they could have handled 
that call better.
While Im of the view Nationwide had fair reason to challenge the details Miss G had given 
them about the payments being fraudulent, they should have done more to recognise her 
actions could be linked to problems she was having managing her account. The call would 
have been better to focus on how Nationwide could help Miss G access her benefit 
payments, while taking steps to deal with the unexpected overdraft.
Nationwide appear to have got to that point later  offering to speak to Miss G about a 
payment plan for the overdraft. That could be a reasonable way to solve the underlying 
problem. But by failing to discuss the problem in a reasonable way at the time, Nationwide 
added to Miss Gs considerable distress.
I discussed last time what caused the overdraft in the first place. As Ive noted, Miss Gs 
representative has raised some issues with my view of this. But it seems to be agreed that 
the payment for the car hire was one factor. And on that it seems to be agreed Miss G did 
hire the car. So that part isnt Nationwides fault.Miss Gs representative raises an interesting point about whether Nationwide should have 
made the funds unavailable to Miss G when she authorised the payment, on 22 March 2019. 
That would have meant she couldnt transfer the money out of the account prior to it being 
taken by the car hire company on 4 April. 
Its not clear how much of a difference that would actually have made to this situation 
though. Miss G still wouldnt have been able to use the money, and would still have seen two 
payments going out, rather than the one she was expecting. As that prompted her to 
consider the payments  and the car hire itself  were fraudulent at the time, it seems likely 
shed had reached the same conclusion, even without the overdraft happening. That in turn 
would lead to the fraud case being opened, and the refund being given. The funds would 
then have been available to Miss G to spend or transfer, until the fraud investigation 
ultimately sought to take the refund back. At that point, the overdraft would reoccur, if Miss G 
had decided not to leave the money in the account. 
The key for me here is that Nationwide werent responsible for the car being hired in the first 
place, or the cost that followed from that. Nor were they responsible for the payments being 
taken as two amounts rather than one  which is what her representative says gave Miss G 
the belief the payments werent right. 
So I find not all of the upset Miss G experienced is Nationwides doing. And I dont think its 
fair to expect them to pay for the car Miss G hired. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about how things would have been different for Miss G if Nationwide had told 
her sooner in 2017 that the block on online transactions wouldnt transfer to a new card. Ive 
factored in that she looks like she could have had some awareness of this at the time.
Im not going to try to decide if each and every transaction on Miss Gs statements since 
2017 would have been made. Id need to know much more about Miss Gs mindset at the 
time, and her access to other accounts to pay for things. But I shall factor Miss Gs upset 
about the block not working as planned into an overall compensation figure for the emotional 
impact Nationwides service had on her.
The most significant factor in my current reasoning on that impact is the way Miss G 
sounded after the call that confronted her about the car rental payments not being 
fraudulent. In her next call to Nationwide she was frequently in tears, and said shed felt she 
wanted to die since speaking to them. 
Theres no remedy I can direct that will undo that. But compensation from Nationwide would 
acknowledge it was their service that made Miss G feel that way.
Added to that is the limited surprise  as mentioned above  at the refund being taken back
in July 2019.
Ive decided an overall figure of £750 compensation from Nationwide to Miss G will balance 
these points. Its relatively large  to recognise the significant upset Miss G felt  but stops 
short of trying to remedy things that upset Miss G which Nationwide werent responsible for.
I understand Nationwide have already paid some parts of the compensation they offered to 
Miss G. So theyll only need to pay whats left to bring the total up to £750. If my decision is 
accepted, this will then replace all offers made  but not paid  to date. If my decision isnt accepted, Nationwide wont have to do what Ive said, and itll be open to Miss G to pursue 
her complaint elsewhere. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold part of Miss Gs complaint about Nationwide Building Society. To 
recognise the emotional impact this had on her, Nationwide should pay Miss G a total of 
£750 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman