DRN-2029064
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank PLC, when it was trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester (C&G) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy alongside a joint mortgage in 2003. 
The policy protected their mortgage repayments in the event that Mr H couldnt work. 
Mr and Mrs H took out some further borrowing on this account later on. It doesnt look as if 
they bought more PPI every time, but when they took out some additional borrowing in 2009 
they also took out more PPI to cover Mr H. 
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H 
disagree and theyd like an ombudsman to review whats happened. 
Mr and Mrs Hs main complaints ( and Im briefly summarising the points that affect the 
outcome of my decision) are as follows:
the costs and benefits of the policy werent clearly explained and had things been 
more transparent then Mr and Mrs H may have decided against taking it 
it was Mr Hs choice to keep an unexpected inheritance aside for security for his 
family, and they still had savings in 2009
Lloyds made contact with them advising they could offer a better deal and 
Mr and Mrs H say they never requested meetings or any of the policies they took out 
as they trusted the advisor at the time to do what would be right for them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Heres why I say this.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs H  to remember exactly what was discussed 
so long ago when they took out these policies. This means that what they say about the way 
they were sold PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely given the available information and the wider 
circumstances. 
what happened in 2003
Theres a section on their loan application that asks if they want to have PPI. There were 
options on the form to say if they wanted to apply for PPI  or not. So I think Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve seen that it was up to them to say if they wanted to have PPI. 
Theres a tick in the box next to where it says: I wish to apply for C&G Payment Protection 
Plus cover. (this is what Lloyds called its PPI at the time). 
If this wasnt something they wanted Mr and Mrs H couldve ticked the option next to this to 
say they didnt wish to apply for PPI - this is left blank on the form that Mr and Mrs H signed. 
Or they couldve left both boxes blank. 
Mr and Mrs H have signed this completed loan application form at the end indicating that 
they agree with the information thats on the form.
They also filled in a separate PPI application to take out the insurance. I think its likely that 
Mr and Mrs H probably wouldve talked about this as they had to choose how they wanted to 
share the cover between them. They indicated on this form that 100% of the benefit should 
cover Mr H. They both signed the declaration at the end of the completed form to confirm he 
met the requirements to qualify for the policy and agreed with the information set out in the 
application.
As this happened so long ago, its easy to understand how Mr and Mrs H couldve forgotten 
some of these details now. And I cant be sure what was discussed between them and 
Lloyds when they took out the PPI. But, looking at the paperwork they completed, I think 
Lloyds made Mr and Mrs H aware that the policy was optional and they agreed to the PPI.
Although Mr and Mrs H were both in work and contributing towards paying the mortgage it 
looks like Mr H was the main earner. So I can see why Mr and Mrs H mightve been 
concerned to protect his income. And I dont think it was inappropriate that the cover was 
just in Mr Hs name
Lloyds said it advised Mr and Mrs H to have PPI. If a business makes a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Mr H was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions 
that applied.
Ive taken into account what Ive been told about Mr Hs sick pay. But the policy wouldve 
paid out on top of his sick pay  and for longer - up to 12 months per claim. This couldve 
provided a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if Mr and Mrs H faced extra costs as a 
result of Mr H being sick or disabled.
And the PPI wouldve also paid out (after just 60 days off work) if Mr H lost his job 
unexpectedly and became unemployed.  PPI wouldve covered their mortgage repayments plus some extra for household bills and 
other expenses if Mr H was too sick to work. 
Repeat claims were possible giving Mr and Mrs H long term cover for their mortgage.
Although Mr H mentioned having critical illness cover thats a policy that wouldve paid out if 
Mr H was diagnosed with a long term illness that prevented him from ever being likely to 
return to work or in the event of death. So it offered a different sort of benefit to PPI. And 
death in service benefit paid out in different circumstances and wasnt the same as having 
PPI.
Even if Mrs H was able to continue working, I think losing Mr Hs more substantial income 
wouldve had a significant effect on their joint finances. So, I think PPI provided a useful 
benefit in what wouldve been difficult circumstances for Mr and Mrs H if theyd needed to 
make a claim and the policy was suitable for them.
It doesnt look as if Mr H was affected by any of the main conditions that mightve limited the 
policys benefits to him. So, even if not everything was mentioned, I think it unlikely that 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve put Mr and Mrs H off 
taking it out.
Their home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, 
I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful to have at the time  even if theyve forgotten 
this now. 
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take out the policy, when they couldve 
said they didnt want to, and so it appears to me they did want to have this type of cover. Ive 
seen nothing that suggests this policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H when they signed 
up to it. 
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give back to Mr and Mrs H some of the 
commission they paid for this policy. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance 
dont apply to certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. 
As Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont 
apply. So Lloyds doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid for the 
PPI they had with this mortgage.
what happened in 2009
Mr and Mrs H borrowed more money on their mortgage account in 2009. It looks like they 
had a discussion with a mortgage advisor when their financial situation was discussed and 
PPI was recommended to them to cover the extra borrowing they were taking out.
There was nothing on the application form they filled in to get this extra borrowing that 
suggested they had to have PPI. And theyd previously taken out a further advance on their 
mortgage a couple of years earlier without buying any more PPI. So I think they wouldve 
understood that a recommendation to take out PPI was just that  it was still up to them to 
choose if they wanted PPI.
Ive seen a copy of the application form Mr and Mrs H completed in order to take out the  
PPI. As before theyve both signed the form to say they just wanted the PPI to cover Mr H. I accept that these forms may have been completed during a meeting arranged by Lloyds  
and perhaps with the help of a staff member at Lloyds. But, I think its likely that the 
information on the form reflected Mr and Mrs Hs wishes at the time. 
Their mortgage loan agreement for this borrowing also included details about the PPI under 
the heading Optional Insurance. So I think if Mr and Mrs H hadnt wanted PPI they wouldve 
understood that it wasnt something they had to have. 
On balance, I think Mr and Mrs H took out this PPI because they decided they wanted to 
extend the benefits they already had in place covering the main part of their mortgage. So 
they chose to take out this PPI as well to protect the additional borrowing they were applying 
for.
The new policy provided the same benefits  it protected Mr H against accident, sickness 
and unemployment up to 12 months per claim. Looking at what Mr and Mrs H have told us 
about their circumstances in 2009, I think the PPI continued to offer them useful and 
worthwhile cover. 
It covered their mortgage repayments and also paid some extra to help them with their 
household bills and other costs. If theyd taken out home insurance with the lender the PPI 
would've also paid those monthly premiums for them as well. And Mr H couldve made 
multiple claims on the policy if hed needed to. So the policy gave Mr and Mrs H long term 
protection for their mortgage plus some extra financial help.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs H have told us about an unexpected 
inheritance. Mr H says they preferred to keep this money set aside to provide financial 
security for their family. So I can completely understand why they wouldve wanted to have 
PPI. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs H could depend on being able to continue to keep this 
money intact to provide financial security for the future. Without PPI there was a risk that if 
Mr H had found himself unable to work they might otherwise have needed to rely on this 
money to help cover the cost of their monthly mortgage repayments. 
It looks like Mr H wouldve been able to take advantage of all the main policy benefits. So, 
I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected 
Mr and Mrs Hs decision to take it out.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs H knew how much PPI would cost them when they took it out. But 
they set up payment arrangements with their bank when they applied for the policy  so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover and were happy to pay for it at the time. It seems to 
have been affordable for them when they took it out.  
Looked at overall, its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was 
sold. But I think Mr and Mrs H still wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr H even if theyd 
been better informed as it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont 
think better information wouldve put them off buying PPI given the benefits it offered them.
So I dont find that Mr and Mrs H have lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds did wrong. 
This means that it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs H have 
said, including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I appreciate they 
feel strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come as a 
disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help 
explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman