DRN-3873352
The complaint
Mr H complains that his balance was shown incorrectly on ATMs after he made a deposit 
into his account with Santander UK Plc (Santander) using a cheque.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says that he made a deposit via a Santander ATM using a cheque on a Friday in 2022. 
He says he received an email confirmation that the cheque had been deposited shortly 
afterwards. However, when he tried to withdraw cash at another ATM, he was declined, 
despite the fact the ATM showed a balance that included the cheque deposit.
Santander says that the terms and conditions of the account show that a cheque will be 
cleared the next working day. It says the cheque was cleared and the funds were available 
on the following Monday in line with this.
Santander says that its ATMs show both the pending and available balance, but it is not 
able to control what other ATMs show.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account, and they clearly show that any 
cheque will only be cleared, and the funds made available the following working day. So, in 
my view Santander didnt do anything wrong in making the funds available on the Monday. 
And Mr H had received the terms and conditions when he opened the account, so I think its 
more likely than not he was aware of that.
Mr H says that the email he received after making the cheque deposit implied his funds 
would be available. Ive looked at the email and it says, this email is confirmation that you 
have deposited £x in a cheque into your Santander account. In my view this doesnt say that 
the funds are available, and as he had received the terms and conditions of the account, I 
think its more likely than not he would have been aware that the funds would not be 
available until the following working day.
Mr H then says that the ATMs he went to, which were not Santanders, showed the balance 
with the cheque deposit in and not the available funds and this was misleading.
I agree with him that presenting the information in that way was misleading, but I also agree 
with Santander that it does not have control over the presentation in ATMs which are not its 
own.
So, in my view, Santander didnt do anything wrong in this matter.
Mr H says that balance displays on all ATMs should be accurate. Whilst I understand his 
honest concerns, I can only consider the individual circumstances of Mr Hs complaint here. 
Wider concerns like this arent something this service can address as part of its role as a 
quick and informal dispute resolution service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman