DRN-2983207
The complaint
Mr W says Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream hasnt administered his loan 
account properly. He says it placed adverse and incorrect information on his credit file 
when it had agreed to remove this.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Lending Stream disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. The 
compensation I proposed to award was different to that the adjudicator recommended. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and 
form part of this final decision. 
Mr W took out seven loans from Lending Stream between October 2017 and April 2018. 
Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in the table below. Ive 
only included loans 5 to 7 as this complaint is about these loans (and not loans 1 to 4).
loan 
numberlast three 
digits of refdate 
startedamount 
borroweddate ended
5 *130 11/12/2017 £100 30/07/2020
6 *938 08/02/2018 £550 15/01/2021
7 *214 08/04/2018 £400 30/07/2020
I understand Loan 6 was passed to a third-party collection agency at some point. Lending 
Stream took back the administration of this loan as part of the complaint process.
Mr W has made a mis-selling complaint to Lending Stream. On 10 November 2020 Lending 
Stream looked at this complaint. It agreed that it shouldnt have approved loans 5 to 7 and 
offered to pay compensation in respect of these loans. I understand the agreed monetary 
compensation has been paid.
Part of the compensation was that Lending Stream would remove any adverse credit file 
information about these loans with the credit reference agencies. Mr W accepted this 
method of compensation for these loans. I can see that on 21 January 2021, Lending 
Stream informed Mr W that his credit file was being amended.
Mr W, and his wife Mrs W, who is assisting him with this complaint, say that up to this point 
they had taken significant steps to sort out Mr Ws finances. This was important to them as 
they were intending to purchase a property in the near future. And so, Mr Ws credit file needed 
to accurately reflect his situation to allow them to do this. I can see they informed Lending 
Stream about this in February 2021.
Its been established that Lending Stream didnt correct Mr Ws credit file until much later. In 
particular the loan ending in *214 still showed as in default, and the loan ending in *938 was 
showing as active and with an outstanding balance, for some time after Lending Stream said it 
would correct this. Lending Stream said on 23 July 2021 that it had fully amended Mr Ws credit 
file. And Mr W has confirmed this has been done.
Mr Ws ongoing complaint is that Lending Streams inability to correct his credit file led to him 
and Mrs W taking a more expensive mortgage than they would have done if Lending Stream 
hadnt made these mistakes.
Mrs W, on behalf of Mr W, has explained that they were in contact with a mortgage broker who 
advised them to wait for a certain amount of time before applying for a mortgage to enable 
them to borrow on more normal terms and avoid some of the adverse credit market. Mr and 
Mrs W did this.
Mr and Mrs Ws original mortgage broker, and another broker that arranges mortgages where 
there is a history or adverse credit, have confirmed by email that arranging a mortgage for Mr 
and Mrs W was problematic due to loan *938 which remained active on Mr Ws credit file after it 
should have been marked as settled and any adverse information about it removed.
And Mr and Mrs W have said that it was likely that they would have been able to secure a 
mortgage on much better terms than they have if this was not the case. They have focussed on 
one particular lender, and mortgage, that they say they met the criteria for other than the 
existence of short-term lending within two years on their credit report.
But they say they were unable to secure an agreement in principle for this loan due to the errors 
Lending Stream has made on Mr Ws credit file. Mr and Mrs W believe, and their mortgage 
brokers have agreed, this wouldnt have been the case if the problems with Mr Ws credit file 
were corrected promptly.
Our adjudicator has upheld the complaint. He agreed that Lending Streams inability to adjust Mr 
Ws credit file in a reasonable time had likely led to Mr and Mrs W paying a greater amount for 
their mortgage. He said Lending Stream should pay:
£1,495 for an increased broker fee
£260 to cover a valuation cost
£2,400 for the extra amount they would pay on their mortgage repayments
Lending Stream hasnt fully agreed with the adjudicators assessment. It agrees that it should 
have updated Mr Ws credit file in a more timely manner. And that it should pay compensation 
for how this has affected Mr W. But it doesnt think that the compensation the adjudicator 
recommended is fair. This is because:
It doesnt think it has been properly established that the presence of loan *938 on Mr Ws 
credit file led to Mr and Mrs W not being able to secure their first choice of mortgage.
And it is isnt certain that they would have secured a more favourable mortgage arrangement 
if the credit file had been correct
Both of these factors are dependent on a third parties lending criteria and so are outside of 
Lending Streams control.
Mr W agreed with the adjudicators opinion. As no agreement has been reached the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about lending - including all of the relevant 
rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and Ive have explained why 
below.It has been established that Lending Stream made an error when it didnt correct Mr Ws 
credit file promptly. And, given the correspondence I have seen. it also agrees that 
compensation should be paid. So, Ive not considered whether the complaint should be 
upheld or rejected as it seems to be agreed that it should succeed. So instead, I have 
considered in more detail what is fair compensation for this error.
As Ive outlined above Mr and Mrs W contacted some mortgage brokers to arrange a 
mortgage. Theyve provided information about the mortgage they say they could have 
secured if Mr Ws credit file had been updated in a timely manner. The mortgage brokers 
they used have supported what Mr and Mrs W say.
Essentially, Mr and Mrs W they say they met the criteria for the mortgage they wanted. This 
mortgage had significantly lower costs than the one they ended up taking. They say they applied for 
this mortgage but they were not able to borrow on these terms.
Looking at everything I have been provided I accept that it is possible that Mr and Mrs W 
may have been able to secure a mortgage on more advantageous rates due the mistake 
Lending Stream made.
But there are an awful lot of moving parts to any mortgage arrangement and property 
purchase, and a variety of reasons why mortgages arent approved. There isnt really any 
information from the third partly lender why Mr and Mrs W couldnt borrow from them. Most 
importantly I havent seen anything from the lender itself to confirm that Lending Streams 
errors were the sole or dominant reason that they couldnt secure a mortgage with them.
There could have been any number of reasons why their preferred lender may not have 
wanted to lend to them, Mr W had had some other financial difficulties in the recent past 
which may, or may not, have played a part in the reasons why the mortgage wasnt 
approved.
Mr and Mrs W have provided their recollections about what their preferred lender was offering at 
the time but no more than this. And as their preferred mortgage didnt really move past the 
enquiry stage there is no firm information as to what they would have paid.
So, overall, with the evidence before me, I havent seen enough to persuade me that Mr and Mrs 
W wouldve been able to secure this mortgage had Lending Stream acted correctly.
Essentially I would need confirmation form the third-party lender that they would have been able 
to secure this mortgage but for Lending Streams errors. And confirmation from it of what Mr and 
Mrs W wouldve paid. As I dont have this I dont think its reasonable to base compensation on 
this proposed mortgage.
But I dont think there is any real doubt that Lending Streams poor administration of the 
agreed compensation for the mis-sold loans added to the difficulty Mr and Mrs W were having 
when they tried to arrange a mortgage. And its clear that this issue caused Mr W (and Mrs W 
when they were arranging a mortgage) some distress and inconvenience.
Lending Stream were informed about the importance to Mr W of making sure his credit file was 
correct, and about how this was negatively affecting their ability to secure a mortgage. But it still 
failed to put this right for some months. So, I think its reasonable to say this distress and 
inconvenience was significant. Its clear from the ongoing correspondence that this issues case 
Mr W material distress over a number of months. Because of this I think fair compensation is 
£750.
I realise this is much lower amount overall than our adjudicator recommended. And Im sure this 
will not be the answer that Mr and Mrs W may have been hoping for. Im sorry about that. But I 
hope my explanation is helpful and it does not cause them too much distress.Lending Stream, and Mr W, received my provisional decision. Lending Stream has agreed to 
pay the compensation I thought was reasonable. 
Mrs W, on behalf of Mr W, responded and didnt fully agree. She said that, in summary:
She still thought it was likely they would have been able to secure a lower cost 
mortgage arrangement if Lending Stream had acted correctly. Mrs W said they are 
unable to provide further documentation to support this. 
Mrs W reiterated the time and effort it they had put in to resolving this issue. And how 
Lending Strems mistakes and intransigence had negatively affected their lives. 
And that the compensation I had recommended earlier was low, given the hours or 
work this issue had taken them to rectify.  
Mrs W also said that they are both glad this issue is near resolution and that Mr Ws credit 
file is now correct will allow them to move on with their lives. 
As Mr W doesnt fully agree Ive considered what has been said and Im issuing my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I think Mrs W has recognised I dont think it would be reasonable for me to make an 
award based on an alternative mortgage without further evidence. I do appreciate Mr and 
Mrs Ws strongly held views about this, and what they have already provided. But, 
unfortunately, there is still too much uncertainty, in my view, for me to make an award based 
on this. 
When making an award for the distress and inconvenience I must also bear in mind that 
things do go wrong from time to time. And we dont make awards generally based on hours 
spent on an issue. To make any award for trouble and upset it should be caused solely by 
the errors the business has made and these should have caused a degree of inconvenience 
above that faced in ordinary life. 
I appreciate Mr and Mr Ws comments about how this issue affected their lives. And I dont 
disagree, as I outlined in my provisional decision, that Lending Streams actions fell far short 
of what I would expect a reasonable business to have done. Its not really in question that 
the distress caused by this was significant. Overall, I still think the compensation of £750 is 
reasonable. 
I appreciate that this compensation is not entirely what Mr W (and Mrs W) want. But I do 
hope, as Mrs W says, that they can now put this behind them. And again, I hope they found 
my explanation, at least, helpful.
Putting things right
If Mr W accepts this decision Lending Stream should now pay him £750.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman