DRN-4321744
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) handled a claim 
he made to it.
What happened
The background facts of this case are well known to both parties so I will only cover these 
briefly here.
Mr M and his partner were due to travel to Australia on 21 March 2022 on flights they had 
purchased that February (Booking A).
However, Mr M says that shortly before the flight he realised they needed to get a PCR test 
in order to travel. He and his partner contacted the travel agent (the agent) for help.
Mr M says he used his credit card to purchase the same flights (Booking B) for himself and 
his partner but departing a day later (22 March 2022) based on untrue information the agent 
told him over the phone. In summary, he says the agent said they would be unable to get a 
PCR test in time to use Booking A.
Mr M complained to the agent about what he later found was an unnecessary additional 
booking but it refused to refund him - so he raised a dispute with Nationwide. It did not 
refund Mr M and in its response to his complaint about the outcome of the dispute 
concluded:
there are no chargeback rights here because it was Mr Ms responsibility to 
understand the entry requirements for the country he was due to travel to; and
it could not review any Section 75 claim because Mr M made the booking through a 
travel agent rather than directly with the airline.
Mr Ms complaint was referred to this service and upheld. Our investigator concluded that 
there was a likely misrepresentation by the agent here and that Nationwide were liable for 
this under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75)  so it should have 
upheld the claim.
Nationwide disagrees with this. In summary, it says:
Mr M made the initial error by not checking the entry requirements for travel and 
should have checked this well beforehand.
Mr M has used the booking and received the services so a chargeback would have 
failed indisputably.
It is confident that it made the right decision to decline to raise a Section 75 claim due 
to the requirements for the debtor-creditor-supplier not being met. This applies 
regardless of any alleged misrepresentation made by the agent.
Mr M failed to provide concrete evidence which shows he and his partner were 
misled  other than recollection of a verbal conversation from the merchant. It would 
also be difficult to demonstrate the merchant was not telling the truth or wilfully lying 
about the availability of PCR tests as this is something that could fluctuate and would 
be out of their control. Even if Mr M was led to believe something on the call it is 
possible that the situation changed after.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the submissions by the parties but I will not be commenting on them all, only 
what I consider to be particularly relevant to the outcome of this complaint. This reflects my 
role in resolving disputes informally.
I note that Nationwide is not the supplier of travel services here  so in looking at whether it 
acted in a fair way I look at its responsibilities as a provider of financial services. In doing so I 
consider the card protection scheme of chargeback and the law of Section 75 to be 
particularly relevant here.
I can see that in handling the claim Nationwide focused on chargeback. It concluded that a 
chargeback would not have had a reasonable prospect of success due to the limitations of 
the card scheme. Prima facie I dont disagree with Nationwide particularly as Mr Ms claim is 
focused on misrepresentation. However, because of my conclusions on Section 75 (below) I 
dont consider it necessary to explain my reasoning any further in respect of chargeback.
Furthermore, I am aware Mr M has mentioned some other things the supplier allegedly told 
him about the pricing of the re-booking during the call which he thinks were misleading and 
untrue. I dont consider it necessary to focus on those here as it doesnt change the outcome 
in any event.
Section 75
Section 75 can allow Mr M to hold Nationwide responsible for a like claim against a supplier 
for misrepresentation or breach of contract in respect of the services he paid it for using his 
Nationwide credit card.
I can see here Nationwide didnt appear to carry out a full Section 75 investigation because 
Mr M booked through a travel agent while the flights were provided by a separate entity (the 
airline in this case). It indicates that this caused a break in the requirement for a valid 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement as written in law. 
While I agree that because the credit card payment was made to the agent Mr M does not 
have a valid Section 75 claim in respect of any agreement with the airline, prima facie he 
does have a claim in respect of the agreement with the agent he paid using the credit card 
here. 
It is quite clear Mr Ms claim to Nationwide was not about the actions of the airline  but an 
alleged misrepresentation by the agent. And as I have indicated above  prima facie there is 
a valid Section 75 claim in respect of the agent he paid  even if he ultimately booked tickets 
for flights with a third party airline. So I dont think Nationwide did the right thing in not 
looking at the matter in greater detail at the time with Section 75 in mind. As a result in 
determining what a fair outcome should be I dont consider it unreasonable for me to do this 
here.For completeness I have looked at whether other requirements for a valid Section 75 claim 
are met here too (such as financial limits and other aspects of the debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement). Nationwide has not raised these as issues so I will only deal with them briefly. I 
noticed Mr Ms partner was named on the booking confirmation for Booking B. However, I 
am satisfied that Mr M was an intended joint contracting party here based on the evidence 
presented to me here including the wording of the contract, Mr Ms involvement in making 
the booking (he appears to have led the telephone discussions) and other details like the 
use of his email address for the lead booker information.
As I am satisfied the requirements for a valid Section 75 claim are met I have turned to 
whether there has been a likely misrepresentation by the supplier. 
Firstly, based on the information I have seen online and what Mr M has said it does appear 
that express PCR tests were available on a weekend and where test results could be 
obtained on the same day/within hours. Nationwide hasnt provided persuasive evidence to 
show Mr M would not have had access to a test at the time beyond some general 
statements about potential fluctuations in availability. I think any service is subject to 
possible delays or availability issues, however, on balance it appears that express services 
were available and Mr M would have been able to use them.
I note when Mr M spoke to the agent about the situation it was a Sunday morning about 9am 
and Booking A was due to leave on Monday afternoon. Which appears to have left more 
than enough time to get an express test that day. I note following the re-booking of the flight 
Mr M did get a test that same day anyway  albeit he says with less urgency and not utilising 
the pricier express service (due to the re-booking). Despite the slower test being carried out 
around 6pm on the Sunday the result came in just before the original (Booking A) flight was 
due to depart. So it follows that if Mr M had gone for an express test on Sunday morning it is 
more likely than not he would have received the results well before Booking A was due to 
depart.
I now move onto what I consider it likely the agent told Mr M on the phone and whether that 
is enough to constitute a misrepresentation (or breach of contract).
Nationwide points to the fact that we only have recollections of a verbal conversation to go 
by -  which does admittedly make things more difficult here. However, I dont think that 
should automatically discount Mr Ms claim. Where the circumstantial evidence and 
testimony is strong enough then it is fair to consider what is most likely to have occurred on 
the balance of probabilities.
In considering what has likely occurred here I note that: 
While the agent says it was possible the representative on the call might have 
suggested [sic] the customer that they might not be able to get the test results on 
time this is not in accordance with Mr Ms testimony. Mr M has provided clear and 
credible testimony that the agent was absolutely insistent and told him categorically 
there was no possibility of getting a PCR before Booking A was due to depart as it 
was a weekend and this would take 2 days so re-booking was essentially the only 
option and needed to be done quickly to gain credit for Booking A.
Mr M ended up agreeing to pay out £3,262 for Booking B during the same call which 
was essentially the exact same flight as Booking A (which Mr M says he had already 
spent £2,337 on) but due to depart a day later. This is a significant decision to make 
because of the extra cost involved - it appears extremely unlikely Mr M would have 
made this decision lightly or in that moment unless the agent indicated it was entirely 
necessary and was in fact as insistent as Mr M says he was. I think it is also important to note here that Nationwide has failed to provide a phone 
recording as a defence to the allegations made against the agent of which it is equally liable 
for under Section 75 in respect of misrepresentation or breach of contract. The agent is the 
professional party here in the strongest position to record and recover evidence and Mr M as 
the consumer is in a somewhat weaker position  so I dont think it unreasonable to make 
adverse inferences here as a result of the failure of the agent (and Nationwide) to provide a 
phone recording of the booking call. That in itself is not a reason for concluding 
misrepresentation has occurred  but it does inform the weight I have given to Mr Ms 
recollection in determining what is more likely to have occurred.
On balance, I consider the agent gave Mr M false information. I am not saying this was 
wilfully false as Nationwide has mentioned. But that doesnt matter here  the point is that 
the false information was given to him and it clearly influenced his decision making in 
purchasing an additional ticket that he likely would not have done otherwise.
Even if I were to accept what the agent says Mr M was likely told by the representative on 
the call (which I dont) then I still think this would constitute a breach of contract in any event. 
I say this because although the terms and conditions of the agent talk generally about the 
responsibility of the traveller in respect of making arrangements to satisfy entry requirements 
I dont think this mitigates the requirement of the agent to act with reasonable care and skill 
via the implied term inserted into the agency contract via the Consumer Rights Act 2015. 
In this case, while I acknowledge the terms and conditions of the agent make it the customer 
responsibility to check certain travel and entry requirements, it appears there is no dispute 
that the agent chose to offer some degree of advice over the phone in respect of the 
situation Mr M and his partner found themselves in. This is in the context of the agent 
advertising its travel advisors as an advanced team of travel experts. Considering the 
amount of money at stake here I think it was not prudent for the representative to do so 
without at least checking the facts. While I accept Mr M could have checked himself he was 
reasonably relying in that moment on the skill and care of a travel expert over the phone. So 
even if I were mistaken on my findings in regard to misrepresentation then this claim should 
have succeeded on grounds of breach of an implied term of the contract (in respect of care 
and skill) in any event.
I note Nationwides emphasis on the terms and conditions which Mr M signed up for in 
regard to his responsibilities as to travel requirements. And the fact that he only realised at a 
late stage that he and his partner needed to take a PCR test within 72 hours before 
departure (which he does not deny and has been very open about). However, it does not 
follow that these points:
Nullify any alleged misrepresentation by the agent made in the course of its dealings 
with him on the phone; or
override the implied contractual requirement for the agent to operate with reasonable 
care and skill in its dealings with Mr M and the information it gave over the phone.
So, I consider that Nationwide should reasonably have upheld Mr Ms Section 75 claim here. 
In doing so I need to consider fair redress. I note Nationwide says Mr M has used the flights 
so should not get a refund. But the point here is that these flights were unnecessary as he 
had Booking A made that he could have used (which he has evidenced). It appears Mr M did 
not use Booking A because of what he was initially told about PCR testing and because he 
was given the impression the agent had cancelled Booking A and carried over credit to 
Booking B in any event.Putting things right
Our investigator has said Nationwide should put things right by re-working the card as if the 
transaction had not occurred (which will result in refunding interest and charges in the 
process). Because of what has happened here in regard to misrepresentation I dont think 
that is unfair. I also note our investigator said Nationwide should pay out of pocket interest 
on any credit balance from the date it declined the claim on 17 June 2022 to the date of 
settlement. I think this is fair as well.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to re-work Mr Ms credit card 
as if the transaction to the agent for £3,262 was never made. In re-working it should refund 
any interest and charges related to this charge. If the re-working results in a credit balance it 
should pay Mr M 8% simple yearly interest on said credit balance from the date it declined 
the claim to the date of settlement.
If Nationwide considers it should deduct tax from any interest award it should provide Mr M 
with a certificate of tax deduction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman