DRN-2884985
The complaint
Mr S complains Lloyds Bank PLC didnt make it clear his application for a personal loan was 
approved subject to the overdraft he held separately being closed. And had he understood 
this, he wouldnt have taken out the loan.
The overdraft was held on a joint account with another party who isnt part of this complaint. 
Whilst Ive mentioned the overdraft as its important to the background of this complaint, Ive 
looked at Mr Ss complaint about the loan application only. 
What happened
Mr S held an overdraft on a joint account with another party. Hed previously applied to have 
the limit increased temporarily to around £25,000, due to his financial circumstances at that 
time. Lloyds says it extended the period of the temporary increase but eventually told Mr S 
he needed to reduce the borrowing back down to around £15,000.
Lloyds says as Mr S didnt repay the additional borrowing on the overdraft, it let him know 
the overdraft would expire in September 2020 at which point the full balance would need to 
be repaid. It says in August 2020, Mr S spoke to a call handler at Lloyds who looked into 
whether it could approve an application for further borrowing. And during that call, the call 
handler explained a loan application for £25,000 could be approved on the condition the 
overdraft facility was repaid and removed. 
Mr S doesnt agree with what Lloyds has said  in particular, he doesnt think it was made 
clear the overdraft would be removed. He says he prefers the flexibility of an overdraft and 
hes now having difficulty making the loan repayments which is affecting his credit rating. So 
hed like the overdraft reinstated at the original limit. 
As the complaint wasnt resolved, Mr S asked our service to look into things. Our investigator 
initially upheld the complaint in absence of any information from Lloyds. But after it gave us a 
recording of the call and internal notes from Mr Ss account, she changed the outcome and 
didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied during the phone call, Mr S agreed to the 
removal of his overdraft as a condition of the loan. Mr S didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, I know Mr S will be very disappointed. Ill explain 
why. 
The crux of Mr Ss complaint is he feels he wasnt clearly told his existing overdraft facility 
would be closed as a condition of the loan. Ive listened to the call recording provided by 
Lloyds carefully. During the call, the call handler looked at Mr Ss existing borrowing and 
asked him about this. Towards the end of the call, she explained Lloyds was happy to agree 
to the loan but it would be on the condition that the overdraft facility would be completely 
removed due to the level of debt Mr S already had. She also explained at the end of the call 
that the application had been approved and, once the loan funds had reached his account, 
the overdraft facility would be removed. 
From what I heard during the call, Im satisfied at the time, the call handler made it clear that 
Mr S would be given the loan instead of  rather than in addition to  the overdraft and he 
accepted what she said. So overall, I dont agree this wasnt explained to him clearly. 
I appreciate Mr S has said had he understood his overdraft facility would be closed, he 
wouldnt have taken the loan. But Im not persuaded by this. From the information Ive been 
given, it seems to me, Mr S wouldve needed to repay the overdraft  or at least a large 
amount of it  by September 2020. So had he not taken the loan, its likely he wouldve 
needed to find the funds to repay his overdraft some other way instead. And considering the 
amount outstanding together with what Mr S has told our service and Lloyds about his 
circumstances at the time, I dont think he wouldve applied for the loan if he had other funds 
available to repay the overdraft.
I understand Mr S might feel Lloyds has put him in a more difficult position because hes 
having to repay the loan every month but, I dont agree. I say this because I know Mr S 
preferred the flexibility of having an overdraft as he could use it when he needed it and 
wasnt required to make contractual monthly repayments. But an overdraft is a form of 
revolving credit which can be payable in full at any time. And it seems hed been asked to do 
that at the time of the loan application. From what I understand, Lloyds is looking into 
another complaint brought by Mr S about the assistance available to him while he had 
difficulty making his loan repayments. So thats being looked at separately. 
Overall, based on everything Ive seen in this case, I dont think Lloyds has treated Mr S 
unfairly. 
My final decision
Its my decision that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman