DRN-4278718
The complaint
Mrs G complains about how Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) handled a claim she 
made to it.
What happened
In August 2022 Mrs G used her Tesco credit card to purchase flights from a travel agent 
(the agent). She says the airline unfairly prevented her from boarding the flights and wants 
a refund.
Tesco considered the claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75). It said that Mrs G was not allowed to board because she didnt meet the airlines 
Covid19 requirements. And it did not uphold her claim.
Mrs Gs complaint about the way Tesco handled the claim was referred to this service. 
However, our investigator did not uphold it. In summary, he said:
 Mrs G did not comply with the published government health guidance for travellers to 
her destination which required her to be vaccinated or have a valid PCR test;
 there wasnt a successful Section 75 claim for breach of contract because both the 
terms of the agent and the airline refer to the customer being responsible for 
complying with travel requirements relating to health/Covid-19; and
 there wasnt the option for a successful chargeback claim either.
Mrs G disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. In summary, she says the 
government website explains you had to do a PCR test at the destination  so she should 
have been allowed to board.  And the airline also could have let her make some of use of the 
first leg of the flight even if she didnt use the connecting flight to the final destination where 
the restrictions were. She says she thinks the airline didnt want to help her as the flight was 
delayed 24 hours and it would have meant putting her family in a hotel.
I issued a provisional decision on this matter where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the upset Mrs G has had with the disruption to her travel plans. I 
know she has strong feelings about what has gone on but I wont be commenting on 
everything she has said. This isnt intended to be a discourtesy  it just reflects my role in 
resolving disputes informally. I will focus on what I think are the key matters here.
Firstly, it is important to note that Tesco is not the supplier of flights. So it isnt generally 
responsible for the customer service Mrs G received from the airline. There are specific card 
protections which Tesco can consider in order to help Mrs G (being chargeback and Section 
75)  it is those I have focused on here.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a way Tesco can help Mrs G recover money she has spent on her card. 
However, the chargeback scheme is limited by specific rules set down by the card scheme 
(in this case Mastercard) and it isnt guaranteed to get money back.
Mrs Gs dispute doesnt really fit the chargeback rules available to Tesco. For example a 
common chargeback reason such as service not provided is unlikely to have succeeded 
here because Mrs G was provided with the tickets and the flights were available. The issue 
here is more about her being denied boarding for health reasons related to Covid-19  and 
that isnt really covered by a chargeback reason code. Because of this I dont think a 
chargeback had a reasonable chance of succeeding here. Therefore I dont think Tesco 
acted unfairly in not raising said chargeback.
Section 75
Section 75 in certain circumstances will allow Mrs G to hold Tesco liable for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by a supplier of goods or services she paid for using her Tesco 
credit card.
However, in order for Section 75 to apply there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied. 
One of those is there needs to be the correct debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement for 
a valid claim.
I note here that Mrs Gs dispute is essentially with the airline. It is the airline who she has an 
agreement with regarding the terms and conditions of carriage. And it is the airline she is 
saying should have let her board  but didnt. However, I dont think Mrs G has a valid claim 
against Tesco for any potential breach of contract by the airline because her card payment 
was made to the agent.
Because Mrs Gs card payment funded the agreement with the agent she potentially has a 
claim against Tesco for any breach of contract by it. Because Mrs G has not provided us 
with an invoice it isnt clear if it is her which has the contract with the agent. However, even if 
it is Mrs G who had the agreement with the agent  I dont think the agent has likely 
breached its contract with her in any event. 
In the absence of terms provided by Mrs G I have looked at the archived terms and 
conditions of the agent which appear to relate to the time of Mrs Gs booking. Looking at the 
terms and conditions it appears that the agent simply agreed to arrange the booking and 
carry out administration in respect of changes and alterations. I dont think it is responsible 
for how the flight operates or the discretion of the airline in refusing travel to individuals. I 
also note that its terms warn Mrs G that in booking with it she acknowledges that suppliers 
will have implemented certain measures as a result of Covid-19 which she will need to 
comply with. So I think it would be difficult to argue that the agent had failed to act with 
reasonable care and skill in warning Mrs G about the possible measures she might face. 
Because Mrs Gs Section 75 claim is technically limited to the agreement she has with the 
agent and because the agent has not breached its agreement with her - I dont think it would 
be fair to hold Tesco responsible for what has occurred here.
However, in the interest of completeness even if I were wrong about the DCS issue above - I 
dont think that the airline clearly breached its own terms in any event. I understand Mrs G 
has not provided the terms and conditions that she got relating to her booking but I have seen archived terms from the time (Aug 2022) which I consider it reasonable to rely on in the 
absence of other information. These state amongst other things:
1.  General 
You are solely responsible for complying with all laws, regulations, orders, demands and 
travel requirements of countries to be flown from, into or over, and with our regulations and 
instructions
I have also seen that screen grabs of the airline website provided by Tesco from July 2022 
which show it required unvaccinated travellers to the country in question to present a 
negative PCR test in order to be allowed to board for departure. The airline later wrote to 
confirm this was the policy in place at the time.
Mrs G has confirmed she was not vaccinated and it appears she did not have the PCR test. 
So it appears that in any event the airline was not in breach of contract in refusing Mrs G 
entry. And while Mrs G has presented her account as to why she thinks the airline refused 
her boarding and suggests that the airline should have provided flexibility in allowing her to 
travel some of the way ultimately I dont think these are breaches of the contract she had 
with the airline but customer service concerns. As I have already said  Tesco isnt 
responsible for general service issues.
I want to underline here that although I have mentioned the actions of the airline I maintain 
that Mrs Gs Section 75 claim against Tesco doesnt cover this. It is about the agreement 
she has with the agent paid using her credit card. And as I have already said  it is quite 
clear that the agent isnt responsible for the decision regarding boarding.
While I empathise with Mrs Gs situation I am looking at the actions of Tesco in handling the 
claim. With this in mind, and considering my reasoning above I dont think it acted unfairly in 
declining her claim. 
I proposed not to uphold the complaint. I asked the parties for their comments.
Tesco said it had nothing further to add and agreed with the decision.
Mrs G did not agree with the decision. In summary, she:
questioned when the airline updated its rules on travel as she never saw much 
information when she wanted to travel;
points out the UK government website stated you could fly to the destination and take 
a PCR test on arrival; and
thinks the airline would not let her party fly or be flexible in allowing them to fly some 
of the way because of the delays which meant it would have to put them up in a 
hotel.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I thank Mrs G for her response to my provisional findings I consider this to be broadly 
a repetition of things she has already told us, and which I have already considered in coming 
to my provisional findings (as set out above). So I dont think it is necessary for me to 
address these in detail. I still consider the findings in my provisional decision to be fair and reasonable for the reasons I have already given,
I note Mrs G has suggested that at the time she flew the airline did not have the policy in 
place requiring travellers to be tested or vaccinated. I dont know for certain what the airlines 
policy was at the time but based on the information I do have it appears that it likely did 
require these things  the airline has also confirmed that was the case too. However, as I 
have already indicated in my provisional decision  this all falls away in any event because 
even if I could accept that the airline had likely breached its contract with Mrs G (and I dont 
here based on the evidence I have) she does not have a valid Section 75 claim against 
Tesco for the actions of the airline. I have already explained my reasons for this in my 
provisional decision.
I am once again very sorry to hear the impact of the situation on Mrs G. But I am looking at 
what Tesco should fairly do here as a provider of financial services, rather than get into the 
wider arguments in respect of the pandemic and the possible motives of the airline. After 
considering Tescos liability I dont think it fair for me to direct it to refund Mrs G.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman