DRN-1133947
The complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unreasonably declined a claim under his trade 
and professional policy. All references to Ageas include its agents. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr M returned home from a job, removed his camera from its bag and wasn't 
able to turn it on. Mr M contacted Ageas to make a claim under his 'all risks' cover for tools. 
He said he could see condensation on the camera's display screen and had tried using rice 
to absorb the moisture but this hadn't resolved the issue. During the call Ageas highlighted 
that his policy specifically excluded damage resulting from condensation. 
Mr M visited a camera store and was advised, in writing, that the camera wasn't working due 
to impact damage. So, Mr M got back in touch with Ageas to pursue the claim further. He 
said he couldn't remember dropping the camera or knocking it against anything. As there 
was some doubt as to how the damage had occurred, and the policy also excluded damage 
not identifiable with a specific event, Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to arrange for the 
camera to be inspected by an engineer. 
The engineer's findings were that there were signs of liquid ingress, which could be 
condensation, and this had affected all the internal parts, rendering the camera beyond 
economical repair. The engineer later added that there were no signs of impact damage 
beyond some general wear and tear. But there was corrosion inside the camera which was 
likely a result of the condensation. 
Mr M disagreed with these findings. He took his camera apart and could find no evidence of 
any corrosion and commented that the condensation had largely dried out by the time the 
camera was inspected. He continued to think the claim should be covered on the basis that 
the condensation was secondary to impact damage. He felt Ageas was applying too much 
emphasis on the fact that he hadn't noticed the impact and questioned how he could prove 
the damage resulted from a one off event in this scenario.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. On balance, he didn't feel the 
damage was consistent with a one off event, and thought it more likely that the damage was 
caused by condensation, which the policy excluded. As no agreement has been reached, I 
need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while I appreciate this is 
likely to come as a disappointment to Mr M, I've decided not to uphold it. I'll explain why. 
Mr M has 'all risks' cover for his tools, which includes his camera. This means that he's 
covered for any accidental damage unless Ageas can show, on balance, that an exclusion 
applies. Ageas hasn't defined 'accidental' in the policy documents. In these circumstances 
we've long held that it should be taken to mean 'unforeseen and unintended'. The damage to Mr M's camera was unforeseen and unintended, so I've gone on to think about whether 
Ageas has been able to establish that an exclusion applies.
Ageas has raised three exclusions which are potentially of relevance to Mr M's claim, but it 
has primarily relied on the exclusion for damage caused by or resulting from condensation. It 
only needs to demonstrate that one exclusion applies in order to decline the claim fairly, so 
I've focused on this exclusion first and foremost. 
Mr M doesn't appear to dispute that condensation was evident on the display screen of the 
camera when he first observed that it wasn't working. Indeed, this seems to be the only 
potential cause of damage he could point to when he first notified Ageas of the claim. He 
doesn't remember knocking the camera against anything and his testimony suggests it was 
in a camera bag, which are usually padded, during the journey home from the job he'd 
attended that day.  
The engineer appointed by the loss adjuster reached similar conclusions based on a 
physical inspection of the camera. They observed signs of liquid ingress, consistent with 
condensation, which had affected the internal parts of the camera, and weren't able to 
identify any signs of impact damage which might offer an alternative explanation. While I 
recognise Mr M's broker didn't inspect the camera, it's nonetheless informative that it too 
concluded the damage was likely to have been caused by "the sudden increase in the 
temperatures in the weather recently" based on Mr M's testimony. 
The only evidence to support that the camera stopped working due to impact damage as 
opposed to condensation is the written comments of the camera store Mr M visited. But the 
quote just says the camera has suffered accidental impact damage. There's no explanation 
given as to what it was that the store assistant observed which led them to that conclusion, 
so I don't find it very persuasive. Mr M has since suggested the store assistant ruled out 
condensation as the cause of the damage because the camera bag was dry.  
Mr M acknowledges there was condensation in the camera though, and it seems unlikely to 
me that this was secondary to impact damage. Condensation is caused by sharp changes in 
temperature. I think it's reasonable to expect that impact damage significant enough to stop 
a camera from working would be evident upon inspection. It doesn't seem the engineer was 
able to identify signs of impact damage to Mr M's camera beyond general wear and tear, 
which isn't attributable to a specific event.
I've reviewed the pictures Mr M has sent us of the camera, but don't think these demonstrate 
damage caused by a one off impact. And I can see Mr M told Ageas he didn't know whether 
the damage he's highlighted was there before the camera stopped working. 
I appreciate Mr M has asked how it's possible to prove an impact occurred if he didn't notice 
one at the time. We wouldn't generally allow an insurer to rely solely on the fact that 
someone can't pinpoint a particular time when damage happened. But it's usually possible to 
draw conclusions about a likely cause of damage from the nature and extent of it. 
Taking the evidence summarised above into account, I think it's more likely the camera 
stopped functioning as a result of the condensation which was observed by Mr M and the 
engineer. In light of that, I think it was fair for Ageas to rely on the exclusion to decline the 
claim. 
Mr M has questioned the engineer's objectivity. But the engineer summarised in their report 
that the claim was valid and should be settled in line with the policy terms. This suggests the 
engineer wasn't familiar with the terms or aware of the exclusion for damage caused by condensation. I can't see that the engineer showed any apparent bias in their comments, so 
I think it was fair for Ageas to take account of their findings when considering the claim.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold Mr M's complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Mike Walker
Ombudsman