DRN-4385031
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont refund £2,078 he says he sent 
to purchase a designer jacket online. 
What happened
On 2 April 2023, Mr B made a payment to purchase a designer jacket (I will refer to the
designer as designer M). He says the item was supposed to arrive the following day. On 16
April 2023 Mr B raised a claim with Starling. He said the item hadnt arrived and the seller,
who was a good friend from school, had told him the package must have been lost in transit.
Starling felt that Mr B had sent money to someone he knew and had previously made a
payment to, so considered it a private dispute between Mr B and the seller.
Mr B told us that the person he bought the jacket from wasnt his friend after all  only
someone with the same name. He also provided us with pictures of the jacket hed
purchased which was a jacket by a designer - I will refer to as D.
Our investigator considered it was a scam but didnt think Mr B had a reasonable basis for
belief as he didnt view the item in person or request more pictures to verify the jacket was
real. He also felt it would be reasonable to request proof of postage.
Mr B then provided a picture he says the seller had sent him when he shipped the item  as
proof of purchase. The picture showed the wrong address. The investigator concluded the
picture Mr B sent was a package sent from Mr Bs home address in July  so did not tie in
with the disputed transaction. Mr B said he had accidentally sent the wrong picture and sent
us a second picture. Mr B said when he confronted the seller about the wrong address and
name on the package, the seller blocked him.
I issued my provisional decision on 16 November 2023 explaining why I was reaching the 
same overall outcome as the investigator but for different reasons. Neither Mr B nor Starling 
replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness, I 
have set this out below.
Its important to highlight that with cases like this I cant know for certain what has happened.
So, I need to weigh up the evidence available and make my decision on the balance of
probabilities  in other words what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the
circumstances. Having carefully considered the evidence I consider Starling acted
reasonably in declining Mr Bs claim: Ive taken into account the following:
When Mr B first reported the disputed transaction to Starling, he said he purchased a jacket
by designer M from a friend (I will refer to as C). He said hed known C since secondary
school (since year seven) and C was a good friend of his. He also said the transaction
wasnt fraudulent and it wasnt a scam because he knew the person. This was repeated
during the initial call on more than one occasion. So, I dont think Starling was unfair or
unreasonable when it declined Mr Bs claim as a civil matter.
This differs significantly from what Mr B has now told us. Since he reported the matter to
Starling, Mr B says hes discovered this was not his friend C but someone with the same
name.
During the initial call with Starling on 16 April 2023 Mr B said that he had called and texted C
following the item not arriving. I find it odd that Mr B hadnt realised that it wasnt his friend
from school having spoken to the person impersonating C.
The surname for C, as listed on the transaction history, was unusual. So, if this was not the
C Mr B knew from school, I think he ought reasonably to have realised this by the time he
reported the matter to Starling.
The previous payment Mr B made to C was referenced happy birthday. I have listened to
Mr Bs explanation that this was for a raffle for an iPhone but on balance I think its more
likely than not that the previous payment was to someone he knew. And this ties in with the
original version of events that Mr B knew C.
There are other inconsistences in what Mr B has told us. For example - the designer of the
jacket has changed from designer M to designer D. There are also the pictures Mr B sent in
response to the view  where there have been further inconsistencies.
Overall, I am not persuaded with Mr Bs explanations of whats happened given the
significant changes in testimony. I think the original explanation Mr B gave in the call to
Starling on 16 April 2023 is more likely than what has been said subsequently. And on this
basis, I cant safely conclude that Mr B has been a victim of a scam. So, I am not asking
Starling to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024. 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman