DRN-3060415
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way that Moorcroft Debt Recovery Limited (trading as Moorcroft 
Group) (Moorcroft) handled the collection of an account in her name.
Mrs W says that the continued contact is very stressful. She wants Moorcroft to pay her 
substantial compensation. 
What happened
Moorcroft is handling the collection of a debt that Mrs W owes to a business I will refer to as 
L. 
Mrs W says that shed contacted Moorcroft several times over the years asking it not to use 
the mobile phone number it held for her. Mrs W says Moorcroft agreed to remove her mobile 
number and make no further calls if she communicated with it in writing.
Mrs W is unhappy that in May 2021, she started to receive calls and texts from Moorcroft. 
Mrs W wants Moorcroft to compensate her for the stress and anxiety this has caused to her.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ws complaint be upheld. He explained that 
Moorcroft was contacting Mrs W about a different account. And that it wouldnt have linked 
her previous request not to be contacted by mobile phone to the new account in Ls name. 
Mrs W is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. She says that Moorcroft is 
dealing with three accounts in her name. Mrs W says they all show in one file so Moorcroft 
must be able to see her preferred method of contact.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the distress that Mrs W has suffered as a result of the contact by 
Moorcroft. I should make it clear that I can only consider Mrs Ws complaint as it relates to 
Moorcrofts handling of the account it manages on behalf of L.
Although Moorcroft had previously agreed not to use Mrs Ws mobile number, this was in 
relation to a different account that it was managing. Moorcroft says that it keeps data on 
each account separate and that it would only note it on a further account if the customer 
asked it to. 
Mrs W suggested that it was likely that Moorcroft holds a central record of contact 
preferences. I asked the investigator to check this with Moorcroft. It says that it doesnt hold 
a central register for customers contact details. Moorcroft says that all accounts are set up 
separately and have their own individual contact details. It says that standard automatic 
recovery letters are sent out separately for each account it manages, under their separate 
client instruction.
Mrs W says she received letters referencing all the accounts that Moorcroft holds in her 
name, so I can understand why she thinks there is a central record. But Moorcroft says that 
if a customer makes contact and references all their accounts, it may then send out a 
bespoke, rather than standard letter, referencing those accounts. 
This means I cant reasonably find that Moorcroft was aware of Mrs Ws contact preferences 
in relation to the account it managed on behalf of L, at the time it attempted to contact her in 
May 2021. And Im not persuaded that the number of attempts Moorcroft made to contact 
Mrs W before it received her complaint letters around 18 May 2021 were unreasonable or 
that they amounted to harassment. 
Once Moorcroft received Mrs Ws complaint in May 2021, it wrote asking for further 
information so that it could match the complaint to the correct account. This seems 
reasonable. Moorcroft says it made one more call to Mrs Ws mobile number on 24 May 
2021. I appreciate that Mrs W would rather this hadnt happened, but Moorcroft says it 
attempted this call because it hadnt linked her account to the recent complaint at that point. 
Im not persuaded that Moorcroft should have to compensate Mrs W for the impact this 
oversight had on her. 
This service cant tell Moorcroft how to run its business. It says it doesnt hold a central 
register of contact details. As Moorcroft has consistently given us the same response, I think 
I must take what it says at face value. This means I cant find Moorcroft was wrong to 
contact Mrs W using the details provided by L before she complained. Once Mrs W 
expressed her contact preferences, Im satisfied that Moorcroft responded appropriately. 
This means I dont require Moorcroft to pay Mrs W compensation as she would like. I 
appreciate this is likely to come as a disappointment.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphodld this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman