DRN-2178218
The complaint
Mr W complains that a business protection insurance policy sold to him by JCB Insurance 
Services Ltd for S (his business) doesnt provide the cover that he thought he had. 
What happened
Mr W is a sole trader. He took out a business protection policy for his business around 20 
years ago and renewed it every year. The policy incudes cover for employers liability and 
public liability. When he suffered serious injuries following an accident while he was working 
Mr W tried to make a claim on the policy but the insurer rejected the claim. It said there was 
cover under the employers liability section if an employee was injured and took action 
against him. But, as he was a self-employed sole trader, he wouldnt be able to get cover to 
bring a claim against himself.
Mr W was unhappy as he thought the policy would provide cover in these circumstances. He 
complained to JCB that this had never been explained to him either when he bought the 
policy or when he renewed it each year. 
JCB didnt uphold his complaint. It said: 
It wasnt able to provide documents from the original sale but the information it did 
have showed a demands and needs statement had been prepared each year and the 
policy sold to him met the needs set out in that statement.
It had highlighted to Mr W examples of other cover that was available, including 
personal accident cover, but he had never requested that.
When Mr W then brought the complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think JCB was 
at fault. She agreed that the documents provided to Mr W set out what he was covered for, 
and showed that personal accident cover could have been added if he wanted that.
Mr W disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. Hes been supported in 
bringing the complaint by a representative, who has made a number of points including the 
following:
It would take a long time to read all the documents and understand what the policy 
covered.
Someone working in insurance might understand how indemnity insurance works 
and the implications of being a sole trader rather than a limited company, but 
someone like Mr W wouldnt know this.
JCB should have explained to Mr W in plain English what his policy covered and 
recommended any additional insurance he needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were advised sales, so at the original sale and at each renewal JCB needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the insurance was suitable for Mr W. That would include 
establishing if Mr W had a need for the insurance and providing information to him in good 
time, so he could make an informed decision about whether to take out the policy. And any 
information provided to Mr W had to be clear, fair and not misleading.
Due to the amount of time that has passed we dont have all the documents relating to the 
sale of the policy, but I have seen the information that was provided at the more recent 
renewals. This shows that JCB provided a statement of demands and needs, which said 
You require an annual policy to protect the business against claims made by employees or 
Third Parties for injuries and sickness.
I think thats clear and if it wasnt what Mr W wanted, he could have asked JCB about it.
JCB has explained that every client has a pre-renewal review to check their business 
activities and basis of cover needed. This is usually done by phone but if it cant speak to the 
customer, an email is sent asking them to provide any updates and to check the details of 
what has been sent. It says this process was followed at renewal; the types of questions 
Mr W asked show hes experienced in these issues and familiar with the types of cover 
available; he did at some renewals call to confirm things were in order; there have been 
conversations with him over the years and his needs havent changed a great deal. 
On this basis, I think Mr W was told what insurance was being provided and asked to check 
this before renewing. And I think its clear from the document mentioned above what JCB 
had assessed Ss needs as, and what type of insurance it was recommending  the 
statement says he needs a policy that would provide protection for his business if one of his 
employees, or someone else (for example a customer) was injured and brought a legal 
claim.
The policy schedule shows that he had cover for public liability and employers liability, which 
would cover your legal liability at law to pay compensation to any employee sustaining 
bodily injury or disease arising out of and in the course of their employment with you.
I note what his representative says about understanding detailed insurance documents. But I 
think the documents are clear that JCB had assessed his needs to be for his business to be 
protected if someone else took legal action. And thats what the policy does. I dont think he 
would have needed detailed knowledge to understand that was the cover being sold to him. 
Mr W says he didnt understand the difference between being self-employed and being a 
limited company. But he did know that he was the principle of the business and how many 
employees he had. He also knew the cover was to protect him from claims made by his 
employees (or others). I havent seen anything to show that Mr W asked for insurance to 
cover himself in the event that he had an accident. If that was what he wanted, and it wasnt 
included in the demands and needs statement, then its reasonable to expect him to have 
asked why it wasnt there.
In addition, from 2014 onwards, the letter JCB sent to Mr W at renewal said it could arrange 
other insurance, and there was a short bullet point list of these, which included Personal 
Accident Insurance.
Again, I dont think Mr W would have needed to read through lengthy documents to be 
aware that personal accident cover for himself (as opposed to protection for his business) 
was not included in his policy but was available if he wanted it.Mr W says it was only when he tried to claim after his accident that he was told he needed 
separate personal accident cover. But from the information Ive seen, it was brought to his 
attention what cover he had  and that personal accident cover wasnt included, but could be 
added if he wanted it. And Mr W had an opportunity each year to ask about other types of 
cover.
For these reasons, Im satisfied the policy sold to Mr W was suitable for the needs that had 
been assessed, and that the information provided to him was clear and provided enough 
information for him to know what type of insurance he was buying.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman