DRN-2709347
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy in 2004 at around the same time as they applied for a 
mortgage. The policy gave them accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They paid a 
monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) Ive reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities, in other words based on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and what we know about how RBS sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S say they applied for their mortgage on the phone, but they dont recall PPI 
being discussed at all. And they say as RBS hasnt been able to provide anything signed by 
them to show they wanted PPI it should refund the premiums they paid. RBS doesnt have 
all the documentation from their sale but thats not unreasonable or surprising given how 
long ago the sale was. And it doesnt automatically mean the policy was mis-sold. 
RBS has been able to provide a copy of a letter it sent Mr and Mrs S asking them to sign and 
return a direct debit mandate for the PPI. I know Mr and Mrs S dont recall receiving the 
letter but as the PPI was set up on their account I think its most likely they signed and 
returned the mandate. The letter thanked them for their interest in the PPI which suggests to 
me it had been discussed with them. And theres nothing in the letter that I think could 
reasonably have led them to believe they had to take it out. 
Overall, given the balance of the evidence, I think its most likely RBS made it clear the PPI 
was optional, and Mr and Mrs S agreed to take it out. I can understand they might not 
remember this given how long ago the sale was.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI, so it didnt have to check the policy was right for Mr and 
Mrs S. However, it had to give clear, fair and not misleading information about the PPI so 
they could make a properly informed choice.
Its possible RBS didnt give Mr and Mrs S as much information as it shouldve done.
But I dont think better information wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. I say this
because:
 
Mr and Mrs S were eligible for the cover and wouldnt have been affected by any of 
the main things not covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs S told us they were both entitled to between six and 12 months sick pay, 
but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits for up to 12 months. 
They said family would have helped but this isnt suitable alternative protection. Its 
not guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can change. Mr and Mrs S were 
borrowing a significant sum of money over a number of years secured against their 
home, so given the consequences of missing mortgage repayments I think the PPI 
couldve been useful if Mr and Mrs S were sick or lost their job(s).
The PPI was a reasonable cost for the benefit it provided, and it was apparently
affordable.
So, based on what I know about their circumstances and the terms of the PPI policy, I dont
think Mr and Mrs S wouldve made a different decision if better information had been
provided.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs S paid on their policy  and whether 
RBS treated them unfairly. 
RBS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ss policy was less than half of what 
they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how RBS has been working this out and based 
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ss commission was less than half the 
cost of the policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont think RBS treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay 
Mr and Mrs S back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman