DRN-3042870
Complaint
Mr M complains about Swan Securities and Investments Limited (Swan) which, at the time 
of the events subject to complaint, was an appointed representative of Kession Capital 
Limited (Kession). Mr M says he was advised by Swan to invest into high-risk unregulated 
investments and he was mis-led about, and missold, these investments. He says there were 
no risk warnings and no documentation was sent to him setting out the advice.
Background
Mr Ms complaint concerns two investments he made in 2015. An investment of £10,000 in 
non-voting shares of Sooner Energy and an investment of £25,000 in a bond issued by 
Clean Energies. Both these investments were made following interaction between Swan and 
Mr M. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Register records that Swan was an appointed 
representative of Kession from 30 March 2015 to 5 September 2016. Kession has provided 
a copy of an appointed representative between it and Swan, which was signed by Swan and 
Kession on 3 March 2015.  
The Sooner Energy investment 
A 13 August 2015 letter from Swan to Mr M says:
Further to our recent conversation in relation to Sooner Energy. please follow the link below 
to view the Prospectus. I hope that you find this informative.
Sooner Energy Prospectus
I shall endeavour to reach out in the near future to discuss in more detail and I look forward 
to your feedback. Please do not hesitate to contact me should you have any questions in the 
meantime
A 20 August 2015 letter from Swan to Mr M says:
Following our conversation and the introduction to Sooner Energy SPV-1 Limited, please 
find enclosed the subscription agreement. We request that you kindly initial each page (in 
the bottom right hand corner) and sign on pages 10 and 18.
So the Sooner Energy investment was discussed by Swan with Mr M, then the prospectus 
for the investment was provided to Mr M, after which there was a further conversation about 
the investment, and an application to invest was made by Mr M. I have not seen any notes 
or recordings of the conversations which took place. 
The Clean Energies investment
A 3 September 2015 email from Swan to Mr M says:
Further to our recent conversation in relation to the Clean Energies Investor Bond, please 
see attached the Investment Memorandum. I hope that you find this informative. I shall 
endeavour to reach out in the near future to discuss it in more detail and I look forward to 
your feedback. Please do not hesitate to contact me should you have any questions in the 
meantime.
On 8 September a subscription agreement for Clean Energies was sent to Mr M by email, 
from Swan.
So this seems to follow a similar pattern to the Sooner Energy investment  it was discussed 
by Swan with Mr M, then the investment memorandum for the investment was provided to 
Mr M, after which an application to invest was made by Mr M. I have not seen any notes or 
recordings of the conversations which took place in relation to this investment either.
Kessions response to the complaint 
In response to the complaint Kession said, in summary: 
It accepts that Swan was its appointed representative at the time Mr M made the 
investments. However, Swan was only acting as its appointed representative where it 
gave Swan authority to do so. 
It did not sign off any financial promotion regarding Sooner Energy or Clean 
Energies.
Swan's actions fell outside of its control and oversight. All the information provided to 
it as part of the complaint demonstrates the investments were marketed and sold by 
Swan outside of its appointed representative agreement. It is therefore unable to 
comment on whether the investments were mis-sold or whether advice was given.
Our investigators view 
Our investigator concluded Mr Ms complaint was one we could consider against Kession, 
and that it should be upheld. He said, in summary: 
Although Mr M says he considers that he was given financial advice by Swan, he has 
not been provided with enough evidence to make this finding.
But he did think Swan was arranging deals in investments, with regard to the two 
investments complained about here. Mr Ms investments were in equities and bonds. 
So any arranging done in connection with these investments would constitute a 
regulated activity.
A principals responsibility for its appointed representative is set out in Section 39(3) 
of the financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) which says The principal of an 
appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly 
permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
He had been provided with a copy of the agreement Kession had with Swan. This 
sets out that Swan was not permitted to provide advice to retail consumers, but it was 
permitted to promote and arrange business for retail consumers.
Swan was permitted by Kession to carry out Relevant business, which is defined by 
the AR agreement as being regulated activities which the AR is permitted to carry 
out under this Agreement which are subject to the limitations of the Appointor's part IV permission as detailed in Schedule 5. This shows Kession permitted Swan to 
arrange investments of the type made by Mr M. 
So the arrangement of the investments complained about is something that Kession 
gave permission for Swan do i.e. business for which Kession accepted responsibility. 
Mr Ms complaint was therefore one he could consider. 
There were restrictions on the promotion of the investments Mr M made.
He had not seen sufficient evidence to show Swan took the steps set out in the FCA 
rules, to ensure Mr M could receive a promotion of the investments.
Had these steps been undertaken properly, Kession would  or should  have 
concluded that Mr M was not eligible to receive such promotions.
He had also considered whether Mr M could be classified as an elective professional 
client. He was not persuaded Mr M would have met this classification, and noted 
Swan did not appear to have made any efforts to check this. 
So he was satisfied that by arranging Mr Ms investments in Sooner Energy and 
Clean Energies, Swan allowed Mr M to invest in products it ought reasonably to have 
known were not appropriate for him.
Responses to the view 
Mr M accepted the investigators view, and made no further comments. 
Kession did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
It has never given Swan permission to sign off financial promotions - this is clearly 
outlined in the appointed representative agreement. This is something Swan was 
obliged to seek its permission for and it did not seek permission in relation to these 
investments. As with all appointed representatives Swan was not allowed to just 
market any product without its express signoff and permission. 
There are a number of sections of the appointed representative it feels are most 
pertinent (it quoted from sections 1.2, 1.3 and 1.5, 2.2 and 2.3, 3.1, 4, 7.1 and 7.2 
and schedules 1 and 6  I have not included the quotes here as I set out what I 
consider to be the key terms of the agreement in my findings below). 
Swan provided it with details of Sooner Energy but this was never followed up or 
signed off. 
It has no record of Clean Energies, and has never received any communication from 
Swan in relation to that investment. 
Swan wrote to some of its clients, after taking legal advice, to say that some of the 
products were not covered by its agreement with Kession.
It cannot accept responsibility for a product it never agreed to Swan promoting. 
My Findings
I have first considered all the available evidence, to decide whether this complaint is one we 
can consider against Kession. I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator on this so, following that, Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A number of tests have to be met before a complaint can be considered by this service. The 
ones relevant to this particular complaint are that the activity being complained of must be a 
regulated activity or an activity ancillary to one and the principal (i.e. Kession) must have 
accepted responsibility for the activities of its appointed representative (i.e. Swan). 
Under DISP 2.3.1R, we can only consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the listed activities, 
which includes regulated activities; or any ancillary activities carried on by a firm in 
connection with those activities.
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3 says Complaints about acts or omissions include those in 
respect of activities for which the firm is responsible (including business of any appointed 
representative or agent for which the firm... has accepted responsibility).
As the investigator noted, this stems from Section 39(3) of FSMA which says The principal of 
an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly 
permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business 
for which he has accepted responsibility.
So I essentially need to apply up to three tests here:
step 1  to identify the specific acts complained of;
step 2  to consider whether those acts are regulated activities or ancillary thereto; 
and (if so)
step 3  to consider whether the principal firm was responsible for those activities by 
reason of section 39 FSMA.
Ill consider these in turn. 
In my view the acts the complaint relates to are the promotion and arrangements of the 
investments in the Sooner Energy shares and the Clean Energies bond. 
I know Mr M says that he was advised to make the two investments. However, like the 
investigator I dont think there is enough evidence to safely conclude that Mr M was advised. 
There can often be a fine line between the providing of information and giving advice. 
Without further evidence on this point it is difficult to say that Swan gave advice, even if Mr M 
understood hed been given advice. But it is clear from the available evidence that Swan 
promoted the investments. 
Mr Ms complaint is also not solely about advice  it clearly relates to his interactions with 
Swan generally. And we have an inquisitorial remit, so it is reasonable for me to look at 
things in the round. The evidence is clear that both investments were arranged by Swan. 
Swan discussed both investments with Mr M, and then sent details of them to him by email 
or post. It then provided the application documents, and assisted Mr M in the completion of 
these, before sending them off to the provider of the investments. And I think these 
arrangements were closely linked to the promotion of the investments. 
I am satisfied the promoting and arranging of the investments also involved a regulated 
activity. The investments were both a of a type specified in the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Mr M made his investment, the 
RAO said regulated activities include arranging deals in investments. This regulated activity 
was defined in Article 25 as:
25. Arranging deals in investments
(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to buy, sell, 
subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is
(a) a security
is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the arrangements 
buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments falling within paragraph (1)(a) 
(whether as principal or agent) is also a specified kind of activity.
Acts such as obtaining and assisting in the completion of an application form and sending it 
off, with the clients payment, to the investment issuer would come within the scope of Article 
25(1), when the arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the transaction. I am 
satisfied the arranging Swan carried out here falls within the scope of Article 25(1). Given the 
close connection, I am also satisfied that the promotions were ancillary to the arranging. 
So is Kession responsible for these acts? Like the investigator, I think it is. 
Kessions main point in this complaint is that Swan wasnt allowed to deal with investments 
unless it had preapproved those investments. And it says it did not approve the investments 
in this case. Kession also refers to other restrictions in the AR agreement, relating to how 
communications were to be made and adherence to FCA rules, amongst other things. 
I have carefully considered the entirety of the AR agreement and, like the investigator, I am 
satisfied that the acts Mr Ms complaint relates to are ones for which Kession accepted 
responsibility. 
It is not the case that a principal is not responsible for business in any instance where any 
term in an appointed representative agreement is not adhered to. The High Court judgement  
in the case of Anderson v Sense Network (2018) makes it clear section 39 FSMA allows a 
principal firm to accept responsibility for only part of the generic business of a prescribed 
description. In other words, Kession was entitled to appoint Swan as a representative and 
limit the scope of the regulated activities it could carry out and that it would be responsible 
for. But the Court of Appeal judgement in the same case set out that only restrictions on 
what generic business could be conducted would limit the principals responsibility. In 
contrast, restrictions on how that business is to be conducted dont limit a principals 
responsibility. In other words, a principal cant avoid responsibility for activities it authorised 
an AR to carry out just because those activities werent carried out in the way it wanted them 
to be.
Turning to the agreement in this case, I think some of the terms of the agreement referred to 
by Kession relate to how Swan was to carry out the business for which Kession accepted 
responsibility not what business Swan could carry out. And I do not agree with Kessions 
interpretation of some of the other terms, insofar as what they mean for this particular 
complaint. 
At 6.1 the agreement says: The Appointor hereby accepts responsibility for all the AR's and the Individuals activities in 
carrying on the Relevant Business under this Agreement.
Relevant Business is defined in the agreement as:
regulated activities which the AR is permitted to carry out under this Agreement which are 
subject to the limitations of the Appointors part IV permission as detailed in Schedule 5. For 
the avoidance of doubt, the AR is not permitted to carry out any investment management 
activities. The AR is permitted to market and promote its services, arrange business and 
give advice. The AR will conduct business with professional clients, elective professional 
clients and eligible counterparties. In circumstances where clients do not satisfy the criteria 
to opt-up to elective professional status, the AR may treat them as retail clients and conduct 
business with them as such insofar as it is restricted to promoting and arranging only. The 
AR is not permitted to give advice to retail clients. When conducting [sic] with retail clients 
the AR will at all times adhere to the strict guidelines outlined in Schedule 6. The Appointor 
acknowledges that the AR will conduct capital raising and arranging activities via the 
issuance of corporate bonds for power projects. There is no pooling of capital and no CIS.
Kessions part IV permission as detailed in Schedule 5 includes arranging investments of the 
type Mr M made. So the starting point is that Kession accepts responsibility for this, as the 
agreement notes at 6.1. 
At 1.3 the agreement gives Kession the right to impose restrictions as follows: 
In accordance with section 39 of FSMA and the FCA Handbook, the Appointor may impose 
restrictions:
a) on the AR preventing the AR from procuring or attempting to procure persons to enter into 
investment agreements;
b) as to the types of investment and investment activity in relation to which the AR may act, 
even if those activities and/or investments form part of the Relevant Business; and
So the agreement did allow Kession to put restrictions in place which may have related to 
what Swan could do (rather than just how it could do it). I have considered what restrictions 
in the agreement are relevant in this particular complaint. However, I have seen no evidence 
to show Kession put any restrictions on arranging investments. 
2.2 of the agreement says:
The AR shall not make any financial promotion (including but not limited to unsolicited real-
time financial promotions) unless such promotion relates to Relevant Business and is either 
approved in advance by the Appointor or is made only within circumstances where an 
exemption applies under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) 
Order 2005 as amended from time to time.
And 2.3 of the agreement says:
The AR acknowledges that it is not entitled to approve financial promotions for the purposes 
of section 21 of FSMA and undertakes that it shall not do so, or purport to do so.
But both of these restrictions relate to promotion only  they do not place any restrictions on 
arrangements. 2.2 is not, in my view, a restriction on the Relevant Business at all as it refers 
only to financial promotion which is not, in itself, a regulated activity. It does not put any 
restrictions on arranging or advising. 2.3, although relating to an activity which requires regulatory authorisation, also does nothing to restrict arranging activities. 
The remainder of the terms Kession refers to, in my view, relate only to how Swan was to 
carry out the business for which Kession accepted responsibility. They may give Kession 
recourse to Swan if it breached those terms, but they do not impact my jurisdiction to 
consider this complaint. 
So the arranging of the investments is business  was for which Kession accepted 
responsibility. In my view the promotion of the investments (even if carried out here in 
breach of the AR agreement) was closely associated or intrinsically linked to the 
arrangements and is therefore also something Kession is responsible for. That is consistent 
with the approach taken by the courts (Martin & Anor. v Britannia Life Ltd [1999] and 
Tenetconnect Services Ltd, R (on the application of) v Financial Services Lts & Anor [2018]).
As I am satisfied Mr Ms complaint is one we can consider against Kession, I have 
considered what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
What is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint? 
Having carefully considered the available evidence, I have reached essentially the same 
view as the investigator. 
The investigator noted the promotion of the investments to retail clients such as Mr M was 
subject to restrictions and that Swan, acting on behalf of Kession, had to meet regulatory 
obligations which included treating customers fairly and acting in their best interests. 
The regulatory obligations the investigator referred to are set out in the FCAs Principles for 
Businesses (of which I think Principle 6 Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard 
to the interest of its customers and treat them fairly is the most relevant here) and in COBS 
2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client.). 
The rules on financial promotions at the time (set out in COBS 4) said promotion of 
investments of the type made by Mr M to retail clients was restricted to investors which fell 
within certain categories such as high net worth, sophisticated and restricted. These 
categories were defined and a process for placing an investor into them set out. 
Like the investigator, I have not seen sufficient evidence to show Swan took the necessary 
steps to check if Mr M fell into one of the categories (and it follows it also did not take the 
necessary steps for putting him into a category). And I also think it unlikely Mr M could have 
been put into one of these categories, had the necessary steps been taken. So had Swan 
acted fairly and reasonably to meet the relevant rules, it would have been aware Mr M was 
not eligible to receive promotions of the investments. 
The alternative basis on which the investments could have been promoted to Mr M was if he 
were a professional client. However, I have seen no evidence to show any efforts were 
made by Swan to see if Mr M could be treated as a professional client, or to follow the 
process set out in the rules for this. 
Like the investigator, I think acting fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations, 
Swan should not have proceeded to make the promotion and arrange the investments in 
such circumstances. And so I think it is fair to ask Kession to compensate Mr M for the loss 
he has suffered. Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr M 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been promoted the 
investments and had the arrangements not been made.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Kession do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Kession must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr M's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Kession should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
Sooner Energy Still exists but 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Clean Energies Still exists but 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr M agrees to Kession taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Kession to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr M that he repays to Kession any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Kession totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Kession Capital Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Kession Capital Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman