DRN-4065965
Complaint
Mr T has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says that the loans were unaffordable and so shouldnt have 
been provided to him.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Mr T with a first loan for £2,500.00 in January 2018. This 
loan had an APR of 149.3% and a term of 30 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £6,661.50, including interest, fees and charges of £4,161.50, was due to be repaid 
in 30 monthly instalments of just over £220. 
Everyday Loans then provided Mr T with a second loan for £4,300.00 in January 2019. This 
loan had an APR of 106.8% and a term of 48 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £13,906.56, including interest, fees and charges of £9,606.56, was due to be 
repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just under £290. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ts complaint and she thought Everyday Loans didnt 
do anything wrong when providing loan 1. But she also that Everyday Loans ought to have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr T with loan 2. So she thought that Mr Ts 
complaint should be partially upheld. 
Mr T didnt disagree with our adjudicators assessment. But Everyday Loans disagreed with 
the outcome on loan 2. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. As 
the parties appear to be in agreement on the outcome reached for loan 1, this decision on 
only looking at whether Everyday Loans should have provided Mr T with loan 2.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ts complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr T could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before loan 2 was provided. The results of which showed that Mr T was more indebted than 
he was at the time he was provided with loan 1. And given loan 1 was provided for debt 
consolidation, I think that Everyday Loans ought to have been concerned at the fact that    
Mr T owed more than he did before when he approached for loan 2. 
Im also mindful that Everyday Loans relied on the use of average data to calculate Mr Ts 
living expenses. This is despite the fact that her credit file showed he didnt fit the profile of 
the average borrower. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr T has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Ts financial position wasnt as a 
result of financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is 
unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive 
been persuaded to accept Mr Ts version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ts existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to loan 2, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided loan 2 to Mr T. As Everyday 
Loans provided Mr T with loan 2, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr T ended up paying and is still being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan 
he shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr T lost out because of what 
Everyday Loans did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr T
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr T by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments Mr T made, whether to Everyday Loans or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £4,300.00 originally lent. If 
Mr T has already paid Everyday Loans more than £4,300.00 then it should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr T;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr T to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Everyday Loans recorded about this loan should be removed from          
Mr Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman