The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Miss D payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage which 
started in 1992. Miss D was sold PPI policies in 1992 and 2005. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sales of the PPI took place many ago and few of the original documents from the time 
are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on everything 
they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. 
Miss D has said the PPI was presented to her as part and parcel of the mortgage, and she 
wasnt given the option of not taking the PPI. However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude 
this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. Where someone has 
said another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the 
person making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It 
DRN-1627619wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it 
was such a long time ago. 
Also I can see that the mortgage application form in 1992 said, We strongly recommend you 
consider our Mortgage Payments Protector Scheme If you wish to join the Scheme enter 
the amount of monthly benefit you require. So that does suggest, at least in the 
paperwork, the PPI was presented as a separate option. 
But, anyway, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say Miss D wasnt given an option 
about taking the PPI policies. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold 
 but having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Miss D, and this means we would judge its 
sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Miss Ds 
particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Miss Ds situation at the time: 
Its likely Miss D was eligible for the policies.
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Miss D received any employer
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Miss D
would need to fall back on any savings or other means she may have had for paying
the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Miss D in a more secure
position, if shed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment.
Ive not been told anything to suggest she couldnt afford the PPI when she took it
out.
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Miss D
would have been affected by any of these
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained all the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Miss D took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits were greater 
than Miss Ds sick pay and savings, and the cost wasnt significantly high. I say this 
because, in her circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24July2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman