DRN-2573283
The complaint
H and H have complained about TSB Bank plcs decision to close their Client Money 
Account with insufficient notice. H and H feel TSB has been unfair especially given the 
current pandemic which has made opening new accounts difficult and had the potential to 
stop H and H operating.
 
What happened
TSB made a decision under its terms and conditions that it would no longer be offering client 
accounts to business customers. In October 2020, TSB notified H and H that it would be 
closing its Client Call Account on 31 January 2021. 
On 24 November 2020 TSB wrote to H and H explaining that in response to feedback and 
understanding current market conditions, it was extending the period for notification of 
closure to 1 June 2021.
H and H were unhappy as they wanted TSB to postpone the decision to close the account 
for a further 12 months or until they could open another account with another bank.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that TSB had closed the account giving 
60 days notice in accordance with its terms and conditions.
H and H did not accept the investigators findings. They said TSB only extended the notice 
period after H and H complained. They feel that TSB has failed to treat its customers fairly. H 
and H say new anti-money laundering regulations have made it difficult to open a new 
account as certification is needed from HMRC (which had its own delays) and the 
Government have announced a deadline for all letting agents to have a separate account by 
April 2021  putting pressure on financial institutions. 
H and H said the extended deadline was not long enough as they would have to decide to 
cease trading three months before that in order to ensure there is no disruption to landlord 
and tenants. In the current pandemic with branch closures and one partner having to self-
isolate, as he is vulnerable, it has been difficult to navigate this situation remotely and it has 
caused much distress and inconvenience.
H and H were able to open another account within the deadline, but this was after a great 
deal of stress and worry.
TSB also wrote to H and H on 27 May 2021 to say it had granted a further extension until 30 
June 2021.
H and H are still unhappy with the way it has been treated by TSB. As the case could not be 
resolved informally, it has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than H and H have presented 
to us, but I have read all of their submissions. Im not responding to every single point made 
but instead Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues material to the outcome of 
this complaint.
H and H feel they have been treated unfairly by TSB because TSBs actions have caused 
the partnership problems finding another account during the pandemic. However, when 
determining whats fair and reasonable I have to take account of relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
 
TSB made a commercial decision to close all its Client Money Accounts. Initially TSB gave 
60 days notice of account closure in accordance with its terms and conditions. It then 
extended the notice period until 1 June 2021. I appreciate this was in response, not just to H 
and Hs complaint, to wider feedback received from other consumers, but ultimately an 
extension was agreed, and it was agreed within the original notice period. 
A more recent extension until the end of June has been arranged. I do appreciate it would 
have helped H and H if this decision had been made earlier. However, there is nothing in 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice or 
good industry practice which would prevent TSB from closing the account along the lines it 
has and I dont think TSB has acted unfairly or unreasonably when it gave notice to close the 
account in accordance with its term and conditions. It took into account wider feedback it 
received from the original proposed closure date and reviewed and extended that date. H 
and H was able to open a new account within this new timeframe.
I do understand that the partners feel strongly and can understand it has found this a 
particularly distressing time. I know H and H will be disappointed by this outcome, but I can 
only make an award for distress and inconvenience if the business did something wrong or 
made a mistake. I cant say that it has here.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H and H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman