DRN-2267236
Miss W has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss W took out the PPI in 2005. Neither Miss W nor HSBC can confirm the sales process.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss W says she cant remember anything at all about the sales process although she 
assumes that the PPI was added without her knowledge.
HSBC no longer has any paperwork from the time of the sale, which is not surprising given 
how long ago it was. However, we have sample documentation relating to all of HSBCs 
different sales processes at the time which demonstrates that the PPI was usually presented 
as optional and that a consumer would need to agree to purchase the policy before it was 
added to the credit card account. I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude 
that something different happened in this case.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Miss Ws recollection of 
events has faded  and indeed she has told us that she has no memory of the sale. Looking 
at the available evidence, Im satisfied that Miss W probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing 
that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Its possible that HSBC advised Miss W to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending the 
PPI, it needed to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Miss Ws 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for her.
Miss W says she would have received full sick pay from her job although she hasnt said 
how long that would be for. She told HSBC that the period of sick pay would be decided on a 
discretionary basis by her employer. The policy would have paid out in addition to any sick 
pay and potentially for longer than Miss W would have received full pay for. And Miss W 
didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. Overall, I think that Miss W 
had a need for the PPI and could have benefitted from it.
I think that Miss W would have known something about the policy - that it would have 
covered her credit card repayments if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think she would have bought it without knowing anything at 
all about it.
Its possible that HSBC didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss W wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that Miss W had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that further information would have caused her to change her mind. 
This means that HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W. But 
HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss W because: 
When the policy was sold, HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss W about that. 
Because HSBC didnt tell Miss W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Miss W any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman