DRN-1706207
The complaint
Mrs C, Mr K and Mr K complain about repairs carried out under a home emergency 
insurance policy by Aviva Insurance Limited. 
What happened
Mrs C, Mr K and Mr K are the executors of the estate of the sadly deceased Mrs J. Theyve 
been represented at times in this complaint by a third party (a relative of Mrs J). For ease of 
reference in this decision Ill refer to all those involved as the estate.
Mrs J had a HomeServe emergency homecare policy underwritten by Aviva. The estate has 
brought three complaints to our service about claims made under that policy. 
The other complaints related to: (a) Avivas handling of a claim for repairs to the electrics at 
Mrs Js property, a blocked drain and pest control; and (b) a leak at the property. Both have 
already been concluded with an ombudsmans final decision. Im not going to go into those 
complaints again here.
This decision is solely about the estates complaint about the replacement of a boiler at the 
property and the repairs associated with it.
In January 2019, in response to a claim, Aviva determined that the boiler was beyond 
economic repair. In line with the policy terms, it was agreed the boiler would be replaced for 
a fee of £750.
The work took longer than expected and there were issues with Aviva contacting the 
policyholder (now deceased) to arrange repairs whilst she was critically ill in hospital. Those 
issues have been considered as part of the previous complaints made by the estate.
However, there were a number of issues post-installation. The estate arranged for an 
inspection by a third party  at a cost of £150. The report said the boiler was in working 
order, but the tank had been installed incorrectly. In effect it wasnt correctly positioned and 
its weight was going straight through the ceiling of the room beneath. This had also  
unsurprisingly - caused damage to the ceiling.
Aviva carried out their own inspection and agreed with the third partys findings. They 
arranged the necessary remedial repairs. However, the estate werent happy with the work 
done to repair the ceiling, which appeared to be poorly carried out. The contractor also 
refused to re-paint the rooms walls and would only paint the ceiling itself.
The estate made a complaint to Aviva and then brought this to us when they werent 
satisfied with the response.
Without going unnecessarily into the detail  of which both parties are aware - Aviva have in 
effect now offered to pay the estate £1,247.52. This comprises: £347.52 for labour and 
materials costs to the estate when they re-painted the walls; £150 for the third party 
inspection which identified the issues with the installation; and £750 for inconvenience to the 
estate caused by the poor repairs.
Having looked into the complaint, our investigator thought Aviva had done something wrong, 
but he also thought the amount they now said they were willing to pay the estate was fair 
and reasonable.
The estate dont believe this is enough to compensate them. For example, they say a family 
member had to be at the property for 12 days to allow the work to be carried out  and they 
say he would have earned at least £200 for each of those days had he been free to work. 
And so, they asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain first of all that there have been further developments since our investigator 
offered his view on this complaint.
The estate were aware from the outset that the repairs to the ceiling hadnt been carried out 
as agreed. Instead of taking down and replacing the ceiling altogether, the contractor had in 
effect boarded over the existing (damaged) ceiling.
The estate didnt raise this at the time because the sale of the property had been arranged 
and the buyer had no issue with the state of the ceiling and hadnt asked for a reduction in 
price because of it.
However, that sale fell through for unconnected reasons. After the estate contacted them, 
Aviva agreed the work hadnt been carried out as specified. And they agreed to pay for the 
estate £870 so they could carry out the further remedial work themselves.
I dont need to comment on that particular agreement between the estate and Aviva  both 
parties are satisfied with the outcome and no complaint has been made about it.
However, I should be clear that it is entirely separate to the question of whether Avivas offer 
of £1,247.52 is fair and reasonable redress to the estate for the issues raised in this 
complaint.
The £870 Aviva have already paid the estate pays for the latest repairs to the ceiling. It 
doesnt compensate the estate for the cost of the third party inspection, the costs of re-
painting the walls previously or the inconvenience caused by the poor installation of the 
boiler and the frankly odd attempt to repair the ceiling carried out by Avivas contractor.
I have a great deal of sympathy with the estate about this whole affair. The original 
installation of the boiler tank was  all agree  completely sub-standard. The subsequent 
ceiling repairs were carried out by Avivas contractor in a way completely at odds with the 
agreed scope of work. And as a result, something which should have been sorted out long 
ago has dragged on for a substantial amount of time and caused a great degree of 
inconvenience.
I think its uncontroversial that Aviva should pay the £150 cost of the third party inspection 
which uncovered the defective installation of the boiler tank. I also think all would agree its 
fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay for the costs associated with re-painting the walls 
(£347.52).This leaves the question as to whether £750 is sufficient compensation to the estate for the 
inconvenience caused by Avivas failings.
As the estate are aware from what weve said un relation to the previous complaints, we 
cant compensate an estate (which is not a natural person) for stress, anxiety or upset. I 
have no doubt the individual executors and other family members have been stressed and 
upset as a result of these events, but we cant compensate them personally for that. The 
estate  our complainant in this case  isnt a person and so cant feel stress or upset.
So, any award can only be for actual inconvenience caused to the estate. In that context, Im 
satisfied that £750  as suggested by our investigator and as agreed by Aviva  is a fair and 
reasonable payment. 
I should say, I dont accept that the family member who was at the property during the boiler 
installation and further repairs had to be there for the whole time. Theres usually no issue 
with this kind of work being carried out at a vacant property as long as suitable 
arrangements can be made. 
I also have to take into account that this is a home emergency policy, which by its very 
nature is designed to cover a property which is occupied. I cant hold Aviva responsible for 
the very unfortunate events which meant that wasnt the case here.
Putting things right
In summary, I believe it would be fair and reasonable in this case for Aviva to pay the estate 
the £1,247.52 recommended by our investigator. To confirm, this comprises: £150 for the 
cost of the third party report; £347.52 for the cost of re-painting the walls in the room 
beneath the boiler; and £750 to reflect the inconvenience to the estate caused by Avivas 
failure to deal with the claim appropriately and in a timely fashion.
For the sake of absolute clarity, this is in addition to the £870 already paid by Aviva to cover 
the latest repairs carried out on the ceiling.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs C, Mr K and Mr Ks complaint.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the estate of Mrs J £1,247.52.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C, Mr K and 
Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman