DRN-3824613
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the very poor service she has received from The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited (Prudential). In particular, she says it provided her with 
incorrect information about her pension on several occasions and this led her to delay taking 
her pension benefits. As a result of the delay Mrs B says she incurred an additional tax 
liability.
Mrs B is represented in this matter by her IFA.
What happened
Mrs B held a personal pension plan with Prudential. In September 2020, she crystallised her 
pension benefits, took a tax-free cash lump sum from her pension pot and transferred the 
remaining pension funds to a drawdown plan.
In January 2021, Mrs Bs financial adviser contacted Prudential. She said Mrs B wanted to 
withdraw her remaining pension pot over two tax years. Due to an error on Prudentials part, 
it told Mrs B and her IFA that a market value reduction (MVR) of 15% would be applied to 
her remaining pension pot. Prudential made this claim, on at least four separate occasions, 
between March and June 2021.
In July 2021, after Mrs Bs IFA had repeatedly queried Prudentials claim that a MVR would 
be applied to Mrs Bs pension pot, Prudential accepted that it had made a mistake and it said 
an MVR would not be applied.
Mrs B then withdrew her pension pot in full (£56,494.26). As Mrs B withdrew the entire pot in 
one tax-year she incurred a tax liability of 40% on part of the withdrawal. Had Mrs B 
withdrawn part of the pension pot in the 2020/21 tax year and part in the 2021/22 tax year I 
understand that she would not have incurred a 40% tax charge as her marginal rate of 
income tax would have been 20%.
Mrs B complained to Prudential about the very poor service she had received. She asked it 
to compensate her for the additional tax charge she had incurred, the loss of the use of her 
money and the worry and distress its poor service had caused her. Mrs B explained that she 
was suffering from serious ill-health and said the stress this matter had caused her was 
detrimental to her health.
Prudential initially made assumptions in its consideration of Mrs Bs complaint that both 
Mrs B and her IFA felt were incorrect. This delayed its final response to her complaint.
Prudential issued a response to Mrs Bs complaint in mid-November 2021. It upheld her 
complaint and apologised for its errors and poor service. It accepted that it had incorrectly 
told Mrs Bs IFA, on several occasions, that a MVR would be applied to Mrs Bs fund and 
that this incorrect information had caused Mrs B to delay making a withdrawal from her 
pension pot.
In order to put matters right it calculated the redress due to Mrs B based on the assumption 
that, but for its incorrect information, Mrs B would have withdrawn £39,000 from her fund in 
January 2021 and the remaining amount in April 2021, at the start of the 2021/22 tax year. 
The redress covered the additional tax Mrs B would have to pay as a result of not being able 
to withdraw the fund over two tax years and 8% simple interest to compensate Mrs B for the 
loss of the use of this money.
In addition, Prudential paid Mrs B £2,000 for the worry and upset its very poor service had 
caused. It also said it would consider paying compensation to Mrs Bs IFA if it was provided 
with a detailed record of the additional work Mrs Bs IFA had carried out as a result of the 
incorrect information it had provided and its poor service.
Mrs B didnt think the redress Prudential had paid to resolve her complaint was sufficient and 
she referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator noted that most of the issues Mrs B had complained about had been upheld 
by Prudential. What was in dispute was whether the redress Prudential had paid was 
sufficient.
Having considered the matter carefully, our investigator said she felt the offer Prudential had 
made was fair and she didnt think it needed to do any more to resolve this complaint. She 
said she felt the offer Prudential had made was in-line with what she would have expected it 
to do.
Mrs B did not accept our investigators view. In summary she made the following points:
- due to her ill health she was on long term sick leave. She had wanted to take the 
money from her Prudential pension pot to provide her with an income;
- the delays had caused her a lot of worry and distress and her ill health meant that it 
was difficult for her to deal with the lengthy correspondence involved in trying to 
resolve matters with Prudential;
- neither she nor her financial adviser felt the compensation offered by Prudential 
was generous or particularly fair. In particular, Mrs B said the offer did not take into 
account that due to her ill-health she needed to avoid any additional stress;
- she had not accessed another small pension pot she held with another provider, as 
she would have suffered a 40% tax charge if she withdrew the money from this 
pension in the same tax year as she had withdrawn the money from her Prudential 
pension pot. Mrs B said this pension pot had decreased in value by £300 and she 
expected the value to fall further. She said she wanted to use this money to buy a car 
that was more suitable for her needs but had been prevented from accessing this 
pension pot due to Prudentials errors; and,
- she also said that the cost of second-hand cars had increased by a third. Mrs B said 
she felt it was unfair for Prudential not to compensate her for the fall in the value of 
this pension pot and the increase in the cost of second hand cars, as she had been 
unable to encash this pension because she did not want to incur a higher rate tax 
charge on the money.
Mrs Bs IFA also responded to our investigators view. She reiterated the issues Mrs B had 
complained about and said she felt the redress Prudential had paid was too low. She said, in 
summary:
- Mrs B was (and is) buying small rental properties to provide her with income this 
has been delayed by the ten months taken to resolve this issue, these were high 
yielding properties c11% which would have exceeded the actual levels of 
compensation given at 8%.- Mrs B should be compensated for the time she had spent on this matter (as her IFA 
had been). Her IFA said she estimated Mrs B had spent over 40 hours of time on 
this to my knowledge;
- she did not think Prudentials offer to compensate Mrs B if she encashed her other 
pension pot was fair. She said that Mrs B had declined to do this as there is no 
trust left in Prudentials process and we asked for compensation to cover the delay in 
encashing this until the next tax year;
- Prudential had not taken into account that Mrs B would have to pay tax at 40% on 
the 8% interest it had paid to compensate her for the loss of the use of her money; 
and,
- she felt Prudential should pay Mrs B an additional £2,000, in addition to the £2,000 
it had already paid, for the significant worry and upset this matter had caused her.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 24 October 2022. In it I set out that I 
had reached a different view to that of our investigator on some aspects of Mrs Bs 
complaint.
I said it was not in dispute that the service Prudential provided when Mrs B wanted to 
encash her personal pension pot was very poor. It provided Mrs B and her IFA with incorrect 
information over several months regarding whether a MVR would be applied to her pension 
pot. It also made incorrect assumptions in its redress calculations, was slow to notify HMRC 
of the encashment and failed to confirm to Mrs B that the encashment had been processed.
I said that what was in dispute was whether the redress Prudential had paid Mrs B was 
sufficient to compensate her for the very poor service it provided.
Having carefully considered this matter my provisional decision was that, in addition to the 
compensation it had already paid, I thought Prudential also needed to:
- compensate Mrs B for the additional tax she would have to pay on the 8% simple 
interest it had paid to compensate her for the loss of the use of her money; and,
- if Mrs B or her representative could provide evidence to show that she was 
receiving an income of 11%, from the high yielding rental properties she had 
invested in, net of any management fees and charges she was incurring, I said I 
would also consider whether Prudential should compensate Mrs B for the loss her 
IFA said she had suffered due to the delay in making this investment.
Should Prudential pay more to compensate Mrs B for the loss of the use of her money?
Mrs Bs IFA said Prudential should pay Mrs B a further £1,314 gross (net of basic rate tax, 
£1,051) in addition to the 8% simple interest it had already paid, to compensate Mrs B for the 
lack of rental income over and above the 8% compensation offered.
Mrs Bs IFA said:
Mrs B was (and is) buying small rental properties to provide her with income this has been 
delayed by the ten months taken to resolve this issue, these were high yielding properties 
c11% which would have exceeded the actual levels of compensation given at 8%.
I noted that Prudential had already offered to pay additional compensation to Mrs B for the 
loss of the use of her money, upon receipt of suitable evidence. This was set out in its final 
response letter dated 12 November 2021. I said it appeared that at that time, Mrs Bs IFA 
was not able to provide evidence to show that Mrs B was receiving an 11% income from 
property investments she had made with the funds from her pension.
I said that if Mrs B could provide this service with evidence to show that she was receiving 
an income of 11%, from the high yielding rental properties she had invested in, net of any management fees and charges she was incurring I would, of course, consider whether 
Prudential should compensate Mrs B for the loss her IFA said she had actually suffered due 
to the delay in being able to make this investment.
I noted that Mrs Bs IFA said this investment had been delayed by ten months. However, I 
said Mrs Bs IFA first contacted Prudential about withdrawing a lump sum from her pension 
pot in late January 2021, and as I understood it, Mrs B withdrew the total value of her 
pension pot in late July 2021, six months later, not ten months later. In addition, if Mrs B had 
not been given incorrect information by Prudential about the MVR, she would only have 
withdrawn £39,000 in late January 2021, not the full value of her pension pot. As this was 
the case, I said any redress over and above the 8% simple interest Prudential had already 
paid to Mrs B would need to take this into account.
However, I said that if Mrs B or her IFA were unable to provide evidence to show that Mrs B 
would have received an income, net of any fees and charges of 11%, my provisional 
decision was that the 8% simple interest Prudential had already paid was fair and 
reasonable to compensate her for the loss of the use of this money.
tax on interest paid to Mrs B
Mrs Bs IFA said that Mrs B would have to pay a further 20% tax charge on the 8% interest 
Prudential had paid to compensate her for the loss of the use of her money. As the interest 
was paid to Mrs B net of basic rate tax, she would have to pay an additional tax charge on 
this interest via her tax return.
Having carefully considered this point I said I thought it was unfair for Mrs B to lose out by 
having to pay higher rate tax on this interest. Based on the information that had been 
provided to this service I said it appeared that Mrs Bs marginal tax rate would have been 
20%, not 40% if she had split the withdrawals from her pension pot over two years.
My provisional decision on this aspect of Mrs Bs complaint was that Prudential should 
compensate Mrs B for the additional 20% tax charge she will incur on the 8% simple interest 
it had paid to her.
Second pension pot
Mrs B said she didnt want to encash a small pension pot she held with another provider in 
the 2021/22 tax year as this would have led to a further tax charge at 40%.
However, she said she wanted Prudential to compensate her for the fall in the value of this 
pension pot. She also said she wanted it to pay her an additional sum to reflect the increase 
in the cost of second-hand cars, as she had intended to use this pension pot to purchase a 
car more suitable for her needs.
I noted that in its response to Mrs Bs complaint Prudential said that if Mrs Bs IFA provided it 
with evidence of any charges or losses Mrs B had incurred when she encashed this pension 
pot it would be happy to consider any loss as a result of our delays. But it said it didnt 
think it was fair for Mrs B to ask it to pay redress on a potential loss when the pension pot 
hadnt been encashed.
I said I appreciated that Mrs B felt Prudentials position was unfair, but I said I couldnt 
reasonably require it to pay redress on this aspect of her complaint when, as Mrs B had not 
yet encashed this pension pot, there was no evidence that Mrs B had suffered a loss.I said I thought the offer Prudential had made to compensate Mrs B, if she suffered a loss as 
a result of encashing this pension pot, was fair. I said I didnt think it needed to do any more 
to address this aspect of Mrs Bs complaint.
I said I had considered the points Mrs B had made about the increase in the cost of second 
hand cars, but I said that if Mrs B had a pressing need for a more suitable car it was not 
clear to me why she didnt use the lump sums she received from her Prudential pension to 
fund the purchase of a more suitable car.
As Mrs B had chosen to defer encashing this pension pot, despite Prudential having offered 
to make good any loss she had suffered as a result of its delays, I said I couldnt reasonably 
require it to compensate Mrs B for any change in the cost of second hand cars.
Distress and Inconvenience
I said it was not in dispute that Mrs B had received very poor service from Prudential. What 
was in dispute was whether the £2,000 Prudential had paid Mrs B was sufficient to 
compensate her for the worry and upset this matter had caused her. 
Having very carefully considered this aspect of Mrs Bs complaint, I said I thought that the 
compensation Prudential had paid was in-line with the level of award I would make in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I said I appreciated that Mrs B and her IFA felt Prudential should be required to pay more, 
but as Mrs Bs IFA would be aware, I explained that I am required to be fair to both parties. I 
also noted that this service does not award punitive damages, but we do expect awards for 
distress and inconvenience to reflect the trouble and upset a customer has suffered. 
I said it was clear from the submissions Mrs B and her IFA had made, that the incorrect 
information Prudential repeatedly provided caused Mrs B significant worry at a time when 
she was unwell and needed to avoid unnecessary stress.
I said I thought that the £2,000 Prudential had paid Mrs B for the worry and upset this matter 
had caused was at the higher end of awards we would make for distress and inconvenience. 
I said I was satisfied that it reflected not only the worry and frustration Prudentials poor 
service had caused Mrs B, but also took account of Mrs Bs personal circumstances and the 
impact of Prudentials poor service.
I noted that Mrs Bs IFA said Mrs B had spent over 40 hours of time on this matter, of which 
she said around 30 hours were spent talking to her IFA about the issues. Mrs Bs IFA said 
she felt Mrs B should be compensated for this. I said I appreciated that Mrs B had 
experienced worry and distress due to the incorrect information Prudential provided but, from 
the information I had seen, it appeared that Mrs Bs IFA had liaised with Prudential on her 
behalf.
I noted that in the complaint Mrs B had referred to this service she explained that due to her 
ill health her IFA had been chasing the complaint on my behalf and asked this service to 
contact her IFA for information as she has all the details and documentation. As Mrs Bs 
IFA had been dealing with Prudential on her behalf, I said I didnt think it would be 
reasonable to require Prudential to compensate Mrs B for the time she spent discussing this 
matter with her IFA. I said I thought this was something Mrs B had chosen to do but was not 
necessary for this matter to be resolved.I also noted that Mrs Bs IFA had already received compensation for the time she had spent 
dealing with Prudential regarding the incorrect information it provided about whether a MVR 
should be applied to her pension pot.
Mrs Bs IFA also said Mrs B had spent time dealing with the HMRC reclaim of her tax and 
liaising with her accountant. I said I thought that the £2,000 Prudential had already paid 
Mrs B for the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused her reflected the 
inconvenience Mrs B had experienced in having to contact HMRC and her accountant in 
relation to this matter. 
My provisional decision was that I didnt think it would be fair to require Prudential to pay any 
more than it had already paid in connection with this aspect of Mrs Bs complaint.
Neither Mrs B nor her IFA responded to my provisional decision. 
Prudential responded and made the following points:
- It reiterated that in the final response letter it sent to Mrs B and her IFA in November 
2021, it had asked for evidence of the missed investment opportunities Mrs B had 
suffered that would have provided a greater investment return than the 8% simple 
interest it had paid to compensate Mrs B for the loss of the use of her money. It said 
that it felt that if this evidence was available, it would have been provided, either to 
ourselves or to your service within the last year. 
- It queried why my provisional decision was that it should compensate Mrs B for the 
additional tax she will have to pay on the 8% simple interest it had paid as 
compensation for the loss of the use of her money. It said, by compensating for the 
additional tax you appear to be suggesting that we should have split the payment 
over two tax years so that Mrs B would have paid 20% tax in both years. However, 
this was not possible. The redress can only be paid in one tax year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Prudential pay more to compensate Mrs B for the loss of the use of her money?
Neither Mrs B nor her IFA has provided this service with any evidence to show that she is 
receiving an income of 11%, from the high yielding rental properties her IFA says she has 
invested in, net of any management fees and charges she is incurring.
As this is the case, I cannot reasonably require Prudential to compensate Mrs B for the loss 
her IFA says she has suffered due to the delay in being able to make this investment. 
In reaching this decision I have taken into account that Prudential requested this evidence in 
its final response letter in November 2021, so Mrs B and her IFA have had over a year to 
provide this information to either Prudential, or to this service. 
I think Mrs B and her IFA have had sufficient time to provide this information. I am required 
to be fair to both parties and I cannot reasonably allow any more time for Mrs B or her IFA to 
provide this information to either Prudential or this service.
As no evidence has been provided to support Mrs Bs claim that she is receiving an income 
of 11%, net of any fees and charges, my decision is that the 8% simple interest Prudential has already paid is fair and reasonable to compensate Mrs B for the loss of the use of this 
money.
tax on interest paid to Mrs B
Mrs Bs IFA says that Mrs B will have to pay a further 20% tax charge on the 8% interest 
Prudential paid to compensate her for the loss of the use of her money. As the interest was 
paid to Mrs B net of basic rate tax, she will have to pay an additional tax charge on this 
interest via her tax return.
Having carefully considered this point my provisional decision was that I thought it was unfair 
for Mrs B to lose out by having to pay a higher rate of tax on this interest. Based on the 
information that had been provided to this service it appeared that Mrs Bs marginal tax rate 
would have been 20%, not 40%, if she had split the withdrawals from her pension pot over 
two years.
My provisional decision on this aspect of Mrs Bs complaint was that Prudential should 
compensate Mrs B for the additional 20% tax charge she will incur on the 8% simple interest 
it had paid to her.
Prudential queried why I thought it should compensate Mrs B for the additional tax she will 
have to pay on the interest it had paid to her. 
I am mindful of the points that Prudential has made but, as I set out in my provisional 
decision, it appears the only reason Mrs Bs marginal rate of tax for the tax year 2021/22 
was 40% was due to the incorrect information Prudential repeatedly provided to her IFA. 
This incorrect information meant that Mrs B felt unable to take money out of her pension pot 
in the 2020/21 tax year.
If Prudential had not provided incorrect information about the MVR, Mrs B would have been 
able to split her withdrawals over two tax years. Based on the information I have seen it 
appears likely that, even taking into account any investment income Mrs B might have 
received as a result of re-investing this money, her marginal tax rate would have been 20% 
in both the 2020/21 and 2021/22 tax years. 
It therefore seems unfair that Mrs B will have to pay an additional tax charge on the simple 
interest Prudential has paid Mrs B to compensate her for the loss of the use of her money. I 
therefore remain of the view that Prudential should compensate Mrs B for the additional 20% 
tax charge she will incur on the 8% simple interest it paid her. 
As Prudential will be aware, when considering the redress due, my aim is to put Mrs B back 
in the position she would have been in, but for Prudentials errors. In this case, if Mrs B had 
received correct information from Prudential, she would have been able to split the 
withdrawals over two tax years. As I have explained, I cannot safely find that Mrs B would 
have incurred a higher rate of tax on any investment income she would have received when 
she re-invested this money. As this is the case, I think Prudential should compensate Mrs B 
for the extra tax charge she will incur on the 8% simple interest it paid to her.
Putting things right
In addition to the redress Prudential has already paid Mrs B, it should also compensate 
Mrs B for the additional tax she will have to pay on the 8% simple interest it has paid to 
compensate her for the loss of the use of her money. I understand that the interest was paid 
to Mrs B net of basic rate tax.Prudential should reimburse Mrs B for the additional higher rate tax charge she will incur on 
this interest.
My final decision
My decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In addition to the redress The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited has already paid to Mrs B, I have set out above the additional 
redress it should pay in order to resolve this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman