DRN-4088005
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice given by Mulberry Independent Financial Advisers Ltd 
(Mulberry) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr A approached Mulberry in 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. I 
understand he had been referred to Mulberry by a friend and the documents from the time of 
sale show that he wanted to set up his own restaurant  needs equity from pensions to set 
up. 
Mr A and Mulberry met in July 2018 and Mulberry completed a fact-find to gather information 
about Mr As circumstances and objectives. This showed that Mr A was 57 years old and he 
was married with five children. Three of his children were dependent. It noted that Mr A was 
employed as a chef, but he wanted to set up his own restaurant business. 
Mulberry also carried out an assessment of Mr As attitude to risk, which it said was low to 
medium. That said, I think its pretty clear that Mr A was not comfortable with risk bearing 
investments at all, given the answers he gave to some of the questions he was asked. For 
example, he said he would prefer his money to be safe from risk and he indicated he would 
never make a high-risk investment. It was also documented that he had a low capacity for 
loss. So, his attitude to risk was nearer low than medium. 
On 31 October 2018, Mulberry advised Mr A to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds with a third party in line with this attitude to risk. The suitability report 
said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr A wanted:
To access his tax-free cash whilst not needing to take an income until a future date. 
This was to help with his future business. 
Flexible benefits in terms of when he could take them, income levels and tax-free 
cash amount. 
To maximise the lump sum death benefits and to leave a financial legacy.
Mr A proceeded with the transfer in February 2019. The amount transferred was £30,178.59. 
Mr A took tax-free cash of £7,649 and he also started to withdraw £500 a month at the same 
time. 
Mr A complained in June 2021 to Mulberry about the suitability of the transfer advice. He 
said that the transfer wasnt justified, and he has suffered a significant loss due to it. He said 
that Mulberry didnt factor in that he had a low attitude to risk. 
Mulberry didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said that the recommendation was suitable for 
him as it allowed him to meet his aim of buying his business. It feels that he was set on 
doing this and so would have transferred in any event. It went on to say that Mr A was made 
fully aware of the implications of transferring. In particular, he was made aware of the 
likelihood that his pension income would be reduced due to the transfer but his desire to 
release the tax-free cash outweighed this.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Mulberry pay compensation. She said the transfer wasnt in Mr As best 
interests as he was unlikely to be able to improve on the DB scheme benefits. There wasnt 
a detailed analysis of Mr As needs and the reasons for transfer seemed to be generic. 
There was no discussion of any alternative means whereby he could buy a restaurant. And 
the different death benefits available through a SIPP didnt justify the transfer. 
Mulberry didnt respond to the Investigators opinion. And so, as no agreement was reached 
the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Mulberry's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Mulberry 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr As best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Before I look at the transfer in more detail, Ill say now that the overarching problem here 
seems to be that Mulberry didnt do enough to find out about Mr As expected situation in 
retirement, and his wants and needs then. That fact find is very brief and there is very little information recorded in it, other than what Ive outlined above. It wasnt recorded, for 
example, what income Mr A would need in retirement and what other provision he had to 
achieve this.  
But Mulberry was giving DB pension transfer advice and it needed to fully consider how any 
proposed transfer would affect Mr As retirement situation. As it didnt find out what provision 
Mr A had, and what he thought his retirement would look like, it couldnt do this. I accept it 
did prepare a transfer value analysis report (TVAS). But I dont think Mulberry properly gave 
advice on Mr As retirement planning here. 
Financial viability 
Mulberry carried out a TVAS (as required by the regulator) showing how much Mr As 
pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his 
DB scheme (the critical yield). It also calculated the fund value that Mr A would likely need to 
purchase equivalent benefits to those he would be giving up from the DB scheme. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr A was 57 at the time of the advice and Mulberry assumed he would retire at age 60, 
which I assume was the DB schemes normal retirement date. The critical yield required to 
match Mr As benefits at age 60 was 31.7% if he took a full pension. If Mr A took a pension 
with no increases, guarantees or a spouses pension (what it called the hurdle rate) then the 
critical yield would be 8.3%. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 2.7% per year for two years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate and 
Mr As lower attitude to risk. There would be little point in Mr A giving up the guarantees 
available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits 
outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield that fully matched the scheme 
benefits was 31.7%, I think Mr A was almost certain to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, because of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk. This was recognised by Mulberry as it did say that the critical yield was 
unlikely to be achievable.
And this is further illustrated by the fund value that Mulberry said that Mr A would need to 
purchase equivalent benefits to those he would receive from the DB scheme at retirement. 
This was £63,570.38 which was a £33,391.79 more than the transfer value. I think this 
clearly indicates the value of the benefits Mr A was giving up. 
Mulberry has provided cashflow models which it says show Mr A wouldve been able to meet 
his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, Mulberrys models show that 
if the fund grew by 6.64% Mr A could receive similar benefits to the DB scheme. This would 
last until his age 100. But, as Mulberry will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so 
I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time. And in any event the return used in the model is well above what 
was reasonable to assume a lower risk investment would make, as specified in the by the 
regulators growth rates. Which is what Mr A should have been advised to take. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr As best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. Mulberry 
has said that Mr A proceeded with the transfer as he wanted a lump sum to fund his new 
business. And there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
On the face of it, Mr A went to Mulberry to receive advice about his pension planning. And 
whether it was suitable for him to take his benefits flexibly. 
As Ive said above, I dont think that Mulberry looked into what Mr As retirement needs were 
at all. There is no information about what Mr As existing retirement provision was and what 
he thought he would need at retirement. So, its difficult to now say the advice he was given, 
which was essentially to transfer his DB scheme benefits and use them flexibly was suitable 
for him. Mulberry needed to do a lot more here. This was to allow Mr A to make a meaningful 
decision about changing his pension arrangements. None of this seems to have been done. 
What I do know is that Mr A wanted to take some benefits from his pension and start his own 
business. But I dont think its unreasonable to say that Mulberry took what Mr A said very 
much at face value about his new business. And it seemed that Mr As suggestion (if it was 
his suggestion) that he use his pension fund to do this went unchallenged.
But this seems to be a want rather than a need. Mr A now says it wasnt a real aim at all. 
And there is no detail about this which I would have expected to see if Mr A had a realistic 
plan for doing it. And the amount he received from the DB scheme was relatively modest, in 
relation to starting a business. I dont know enough about Mr As circumstances to say that 
he would have been able to raise this by more conventional means, such as a loan, but this 
course of action really should have been looked at in detail and discounted before any 
thought was given to changing his pension arrangements.  
Mr As DB scheme was shown to provide a yearly income of £1,325 at Mr As age 60, and a 
tax-free lump sum of just over £4,000. So, he could potentially receive this in just under three 
years time. This would probably not have met all of Mr As retirement needs. But I still think 
its likely he could have best met his retirement income needs by remaining in the DB 
scheme as it provided the highest income. 
Overall, I dont think Mr A required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the 
evidence Ive seen; I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier 
than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. I dont 
think this was established. And I cant see evidence that Mr A had a strong need for variable 
income throughout his retirement. This also doesnt seem to have been discussed.  
Essentially, Im not persuaded that Mr As want to use his pension to start a business was a 
good enough reason to make this transfer. So, he shouldnt have been advised to transfer 
away for this reason.Death benefits
In the recommendation report Mulberry state one of Mr As main objectives was To 
maximise the lump sum death benefitsto leave a financial legacy.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP was likely an attractive feature to Mr A. But whilst I appreciate death benefits 
are important to consumers, and Mr A might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his 
DB scheme to a SIPP because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr A about what was 
best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. And I dont think Mulberry explored to what extent Mr A was prepared to accept a 
lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr A 
was married and had children and so the spouses and dependents pensions provided by 
the DB scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse and dependents if Mr A predeceased 
them. I dont think Mulberry made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr A. This was 
guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas 
the sum remaining on death in a SIPP was. And as the cashflow analysis indicated, there 
may not have been a large sum left particularly if Mr A lived a long life.  In any event, 
Mulberry should not have encouraged Mr A to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a SIPP over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr A genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse or children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Mulberry shouldve instead explored life insurance. I cant see that it did this. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr A. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr As desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr A was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr A  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
And the funding of his employers DB scheme was not in a position such that Mr A should 
have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. 
Suitability of investments
Mulberry recommended that Mr A invest in funds that may not have been suitable for his 
lower attitude to risk. And this is one of the complaint points that he has made. But as Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mr A, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr A should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr A. But Mulberry wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr A might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
really understand what Mr A needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr A was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr A was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr A shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the scheme just to fund a new business venture (if he did want to do this), and the 
potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his 
DB scheme.
So, I think Mulberry shouldve advised Mr A to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr A would've gone ahead anyway, against Mulberry's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr A wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Mulberrys advice. I say this because Mr A was 
an inexperienced investor with a lower attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of Mr As retirement provision that I know about. So, if Mulberry had provided him 
with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his 
best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr As want to start a business was so great that he wouldve insisted 
on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, 
didnt think transferring his pension was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Mulberry 
had explained that Mr A shouldnt risk his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried 
significant weight. So, I dont think Mr A would have insisted on transferring out of the DB 
scheme.
In light of the above, I think Mulberry should compensate Mr A for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr A, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr A would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Mulberry must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr A has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried using the most recent financial assumptions in line with 
PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification 
of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Mulberry should:
always calculate and offer Mr A redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr A before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr A receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr A accepts Mulberrys offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr A for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr As end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr A as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Mulberry may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr As likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Mulberry Independent 
Financial Advisers Ltd to pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Mulberry Independent Financial Advisers Ltd pays Mr A the balance.
If Mr A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Mulberry Independent 
Financial Advisers Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman