DRN-1635665
The complaint
 Mrs U complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim on 
her mobile phone insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mrs Us mobile phone was lost so she made a claim on her insurance 
policy with Assurant. 
Assurant considered the claim but declined it on the basis that they believed Mrs U had 
provided false or inaccurate information. 
Assurant said it had checked Apples systems and Mrs Us lost mobile phone was reported 
as being faulty and exchanged at an Apple store under warranty, after the alleged loss 
occurred. They argued that for the mobile phone to have been exchanged the person would 
have needed to provide proof of purchase. So they believe Mrs U (or someone who had 
access to the ownership document) was the person who took the device into Apple, and so 
they didnt believe the device was truly lost as had been described.
Mrs U referred the matter to this service and our investigator upheld the complaint. He said 
Assurant had acted unfairly in declining the claim. He said Assurant hadnt done enough to 
show Mrs U had given it false or inaccurate information so the claim should be paid. 
Whilst Mrs U accepted our investigators recommendations, Assurant disagreed. So the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I contacted Assurant to let them know my initial thoughts on the complaint. I explained I 
didnt think theyd done enough to show its more likely than not Mrs U had made a 
fraudulent claim. Whilst I understood why the request for repair may have caused concerns 
and warranted further investigation, I didnt think it was fair to rely solely on the fact the 
device was taken in for repair as we didnt know enough about Apples returns process. So I 
said it remained unclear what, if any, security questions may have been asked by Apple. 
And I wasnt satisfied Assurant reasonably considered the likelihood of Mrs Us version of 
events. 
Assurant maintained they had been fair to decline the claim. They said Apple dont keep a 
record of any security checks that took place and answers to my questions surrounding 
Apples processes could be re-confirmed by contacting Apple. 
So I now need to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The policy terms say a claimant must take reasonable care to answer all questions honestly 
and to the best of your knowledge when submitting a claim. And failure to do so may affect 
the validity of the policy or the payment of a claim. So I must decide whether it was 
reasonable for Assurant to conclude that Mrs U has acted in a dishonest or fraudulent 
manner when making her claim. 
Assurant said Apples warranty terms and conditions say customers must provide the 
original receipt for any repair or replacement service to take place. But I disagree proof of 
purchase is required in all circumstances. The terms say the warranty wont apply;
If Apple receives information from relevant public authorities that the product has been 
stolen or if you are unable to deactivate passcode-enabled or other security measures 
designed to prevent unauthorized access to the Apple Product, and you cannot prove in any 
way that you are the authorized user of the product (eg. by presenting proof of purchase).
Mrs U didnt allege her phone had been stolen so there wouldnt have been any information 
flagging from a public authority. So Ive gone on to consider the likelihood of the person who 
took the phone into Apple being asked to deactivate any security measures designed to 
prevent unauthorised access to the product. 
I note the internal systems notes say the phone wasnt able to be turned on in the store, so 
Im satisfied the phone wouldnt have needed to have been unlocked using a passcode. 
Ive also checked with Apple what their process is for accepting devices under warranty. And 
in what circumstances proof or purchase would be required. Apple told us that they check if 
the owner of the device has enabled lost mode remotely. If lost mode is enabled then Apple 
will not carry out any service on the device. But if a consumer doesn't enable lost mode, then 
Apple won't ask for proof of purchase if the device is still under its warranty period. 
Mrs U didnt enable lost mode on her device, so Im satisfied its likely a thief could have 
returned the device and wouldnt have been asked to provide proof of ownership because 
the device was still under the warranty period. 
In addition, Apple has confirmed to us that the return in question wasnt linked to Mrs U. 
They said the service event reference provided by Assurant is not associated with Mrs Us 
customer account or email address. And it confirmed the service event wasnt in Mrs Us 
name.
I can understand why the request for repair flagging up on the system may have caused 
Assurant concerns and warranted further investigation. But I dont think it was fair to rely 
solely on the fact the device was taken in for repair to conclude Mrs Us version of events 
were dishonest.  I wouldve expected Assurant to have conducted a more in-depth 
investigation into this claim, rather than relying on the replacement in isolation.
As such, overall, Im not persuaded there was enough information for Assurant to reasonably 
decline Mrs Us claim based on the information they had. And I dont think it was fair for 
Assurant to say it wasnt satisfied the phone was lost in the manner Mr U described. 
So Im satisfied this complaint should be upheld and Assurant shouldve paid the claim in 
line with the remaining policy terms in 2019.
Putting things right
Given the time thats passed since the claim, Assurant should settle this matter by paying 
Mrs U the value of what a replacement device would have been at the time of the claim. 
And pay 8% simple interest from the date of the claim up to the date of settlement. 
  
My final decision  Im upholding Mrs Us complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited and directing 
them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman