DRN-3069589
The complaint
Mr J complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) have registered a default to his credit file and hed 
like them to remove it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr J, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr J says he didnt receive any communication to tell him payments were missed on his 
account. He says it was his estranged partner who had cancelled the direct debit and the 
bank had the wrong address for him.
Im not persuaded that Ikano have done anything wrong here. 
It was Mr Js responsibility to make payments towards his debt and I think its reasonable to 
expect him to check to make sure those payments were being made. 
It was also Mr Js responsibility to ensure that the address the business had for him was 
correct. Ikano have confirmed that on 4 September 2019 Mr J told them his new address 
was the one they sent subsequent reminders and the default to. Whilst Mr J disputes that I 
have not seen any evidence to the contrary and I think its likely that was what the business 
were told in September 2019.
When payments werent received in October, November and December 2019 the business 
sent letters to the address they had on file and eventually defaulted the agreement when it 
was three months in arrears. Thats in line with what the industry guidance would suggest a 
creditor should do and I therefore dont think Ikano were wrong to default Mr Js account and 
I dont think they need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman