DRN-3427577
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Lighthouse Financial Advice Limited, 
an appointed representative of Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited (Lighthouse) to 
transfer deferred benefits from his defined benefit (DB) pension with British Steel (BSPS) to 
a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one 
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS 2. 
In February 2017, Mr H met with Lighthouse for advice on his pension as he was concerned 
about the PPF and the security of his pension. 
A fact find and risk profiler were completed which showed:
Mr H was nearly 54 and married with one child expected to be still dependent for two 
more years. He earned a gross income of £60,000 per year. He and his wife owned 
their home worth £325,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £83,000. Mr H had no 
other debts and he held premium bonds worth £23,250.
Mr Hs outgoings were recorded as £2,495 per month leaving him with disposable 
income of £830 per month. 
Mr H wanted to retire at age 60. His target retirement income was recorded as 
£12,000 per year.
Mrs H had her own DB pension which she was also planning to take at age 60. Mr H 
was also a member of the new company defined contribution (DC) pension scheme 
with combined employee and employer contributions.
Mr Hs attitude to risk was recorded as lowest medium.
In summer 2016 Mr H had been diagnosed with a malignant melanoma which had 
been removed. At the time of the advice he was not in remission and it was recorded 
that there was an increased likelihood of reoccurrence. Mr H told the adviser he 
would have quarterly consultations with his doctor for the next five years.
Suitability reports in March and July 2017 recommended Mr H to transfer his DB benefits to 
a personal pension. This advice was given to meet Mr Hs following recorded objectives:
provide flexibility in retirement
enable him to take higher pension income in his early years of retirement whilst 
having the option of reducing his income in later retirement years.
to provide suitable legacy planning so that his wife and children could benefit from his 
pension plan should he die early into his retirement.
Mr H complained to Lighthouse in 2020 about the advice he received. He said it wasnt 
suitable. Lighthouse rejected his complaint. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and one of our investigators upheld his complaint. 
He agreed Lighthouse had given unsuitable advice.
Lighthouse disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Ive considered the very detailed submissions by both parties in full. However, I will focus on 
what I consider to be most the relevant points.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Lighthouses actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability.
The provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with thebenefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to
transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme
with safeguarded benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and
its advice.
COBS 19.1.3 G:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the effect 
of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
(3)  explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have to 
be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4)  be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of the 
assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5)  where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to the 
ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from crystallisation 
at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being
given up.
COBS 19.1.7B: In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not regard a 
rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the defined benefits 
pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G 
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Did Lighthouse take reasonable steps to ensure a DB transfer was suitable for Mr H?
The regulators guidance is that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme 
should be that it is unsuitable. A firm should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer was in Mr Hs best interests. 
(COBS 19.1.6G). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied the advice 
to transfer was in Mr Hs best interests. Ill explain why. 
financial viability
At age 60, the projected benefits in the BSPS offered Mr H an annual pension of £34,751 
per year or alternatively a tax-free cash lump sum of £159,051 and a pension of £23,857 a 
year. The transfer analysis showed that the investment return required to match the DB 
pension at retirement at age 60 (critical yield) was 13.12% per year if benefits were taken in 
full or 8.28% if taken as a lump sum payment with a reduced pension. The equivalent critical 
yields to match the benefits available if BSPS moved to the PPF at age 60 were not 
provided.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The discount rate in this case was 3.1% per year for five years to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
lowest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. And I think Mr H was likely to 
receive benefits of a lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement. 
In summary, Mr H was unlikely to match, let alone exceed his benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension. By transferring his pension it was likely Mr H would receive overall lower 
benefits in retirement. So based on the above alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Hs best interest. 
I note that Lighthouse came to the same conclusion as they said in their suitability report that 
if matching or exceeding DB benefits was the sole objective they wouldnt have 
recommended the transfer.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. I considered below whether such other reasons applied here.flexibility 
Flexibility and control might sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr H had any concrete need 
for it. There is no note of discussions about his plans for retirement, other than him wanting 
to retire at 60 and it being noted that flexible income would allow him to reduce income when 
he reached state pension age. There is no indication that a detailed and meaningful 
discussion about his personal objectives took place. 
His recorded income requirements of £12,000 per year also seem unrealistically low. Even 
without a mortgage, Mr H had outgoings of over £1,500 per month. He had surplus income, 
so possibly he could have just about covered his basic expenditure with this sum. However, I 
think this should have been tested and discussed a bit more given the significant drop from 
his current salary of around £60,000. 
Mr H could have retired early from the BSPS or the PPF. The information about this in the 
suitability reports was misleading. They suggested early retirement might not be possible 
from the PPF before age 65 (which is incorrect). And Lighthouse didnt include the benefits 
available from the PPF at age 60 which I think was crucial information in order to provide Mr 
H with the available options. Whilst benefits were reduced in the PPF, early retirement 
factors were in many cases more beneficial, so based on the figures that are available in the 
transfer analysis, its likely that Mr H would have been able to secure a much higher income 
than £12,000 per year from the PPF together with a significant tax-free cash lump sum, not 
too much lower than the one available from the BSPS. 
Lighthouse have concluded themselves that in their response to this complaint that Mr H 
could have achieved his income and flexibility objectives whether he transferred or remained 
in the scheme. And I agree with them. Mr H could have used his large tax-free cash lump 
sum to spend more in early retirement if he wanted to and he also had a DC pension with his 
employer where he was accruing further benefits until retirement which he could access 
flexibly. None of this was explored as far as I can see.
It was recorded Mr H didnt require a guaranteed income, however Im not sure what this 
was based on. Mr H had had a guaranteed income all his working life and he had a lowest 
medium attitude to risk. So I think a guaranteed income would have been valuable and he 
would have had flexible options through tax free cash and his DC pension without taking risk 
on his main pension provisions. I also note that theres an email from Mr H to the adviser 
noting like many I have had to look at pension options that I thought would never be needed 
having been a member of the [BSPS] for some 37 years and expecting to, one day, be able 
to enjoy the secure benefits that so many of my colleagues have done previously. 
To me this suggests that Mr H valued the secure benefits of the BSPS but thought he had a 
need to look at other options. Mr H had no investment experience and in his risk 
questionnaire said he had been extremely cautious in the past. So I think a guaranteed and 
secure pension income would have suited him well.
Lighthouse provided a cashflow analysis showing that Mr H wouldnt run out of money in his 
lifetime. Again this was misleading in my view as the assumed withdrawals of £12,000 per 
year which, albeit increasing with RPI, would likely be exceeded. Any additional funds 
withdrawn in earlier years to make use of the flexible pension arrangement would have had 
additional impact on performance. Also, the assumed growth rate of the recommended fund 
of 6.2% before charges seemed high given Mr Hs lowest medium attitude to risk. There was 
a significant risk these growth rates would not be achieved. However, in any event, even if 
there was a reasonable chance Mr H would not run out of funds in his lifetime if he used his 
pension conservatively, I dont think this was reason enough for a transfer given that overall 
higher benefits could have been achieved in the DB scheme and even in the PPF. concerns about financial stability of BSPS
There is no doubt Mr H was concerned about his employers financial situation and the 
uncertainty surrounding the BSPS.
Lots of his colleagues at the time were transferring out of the scheme and he was worried 
his pension would end up in the PPF. So I think its likely Mr H was worried about the 
security of his pension which is why he wanted to take control of it.
However, it was Lighthouses obligation to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend 
what was in his best interest. Mr H was particularly concerned about BSPS moving to the 
PPF. He was worried about the security of his pension and that he could lose some of it. 
However, even if this happened, Mr H was still likely to be better off not transferring. Also, 
his pension wasnt under his employers control as he perceived it. It was independently 
controlled by trustees to protect members interests. I cant see that this was properly 
explained to him or that Lighthouse did enough to alleviate Mr Hs concerns in this regard. 
And as I said above information about the benefits in the PPF and the option to retire early 
werent made clear at all.
I acknowledge that if the BSPS ended up in the PPF, the opportunity to transfer at a later 
date was lost. Or if he moved to the BSPS2 and later decided to move his pension, the 
transfer value could have been lower in future. However, if based on the evidence it was in 
his best interest to stay in the DB scheme, this shouldnt have been too much of a concern 
and was not a valid reason to transfer.
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. Less than a year before the advice was 
given, Mr H had suffered from a malignant melanoma. So I dont doubt that this would have 
made him think about his mortality and how his family would be supported if he died 
prematurely. The fact find recorded he was concerned about his future health which is 
understandable.
However, whilst death benefits might be important for consumers, there generally shouldnt 
be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. 
And I dont think Lighthouse explored to what extent Mr H was prepared to accept a lower 
retirement income in exchange for different death benefits.
Also, the existing death benefits he had were not to be underestimated. If Mr H died before 
retirement, his wife would have received £73,647 as a return of contributions and an 
increasing income of £18,750 per year. This was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
In addition to this she would have received the fund value of Mr Hs DC pension and he also 
would have had a death in service benefit which would have paid a multiple of his salary. So 
Mrs H could have easily paid of the mortgage and would have had a valuable guaranteed 
income for the rest of her life. 
If Mr H died after he retired, she would have received his full pension for the years until he 
would have turned 65 and after that an increasing income of nearly £12,000 per year. She 
also had her own DB income from age 60. In addition, she would have received Mr Hs DC 
pension fund. And I think its plausible to think that Mr H would have either paid off his mortgage with the tax-free cash lump sum or if not, Mrs H could have used the remaining 
funds to do this or supplement her income. 
Mr H had a recent health scare, however I dont think there was sufficient evidence to 
consider that he would likely die prematurely. Mr H provided a letter from his consultant from 
2021 in which the consultant confirmed that as we discussed pre-operatively and post-
operatively this means that the prognosis is much better with an expected outcome of 90% 
of patients having no further problems with their melanoma. Even though the letter has 
been written five years after Mr Hs diagnosis and operation, its suggested in the letter that 
the doctor discussed this with Mr H at the time. 
I dont doubt that Mr H was concerned of reoccurrence of his illness and of course this was a 
possibility, like with most cancers. However, I think instead on focusing on this, Lighthouse 
should have also discussed that there was a reasonable chance Mr H could live a long life 
and that overall benefits would likely be better in the DB scheme or PPF. The longer he lived 
and if withdrawals were higher than expected and/or returns turned out to be lower than 
assumed, the lump sum available to leave to family would be a lot less than the cash flow 
analysis suggested.
And if Mr H indeed died early, his family would be taken care of with the available death 
benefits he already had. As explained earlier, this would be made up of lump sums and 
guaranteed income.
I think its clear Mr H already had valuable death benefits through the DB scheme. It was 
recorded in the fact find that Mr H was concerned about the impact it would have on his 
wifes long-term income throughout retirement if he predeceased her. However, as shown 
above his existing benefits took care of this. So there was no need to give up his secure DB 
benefits for these reasons. 
Skilled person review
I recognise that the FCA required Lighthouse to appoint a Skilled Person under section 166 
of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) to conduct a review of certain DB pension 
transfers advised on or arranged by Lighthouse (the Skilled Person Review).
The Skilled Person who is independent from Lighthouse reviewed the advice given to Mr H 
in 2021 using the FCAs Defined Benefit Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT) and found the 
advice to have been suitable.
Lighthouse feels this hasnt been taken into account and that the DBAAT tool and 
methodology used by the regulator has been ignored.
I can assure Lighthouse that I have considered the skilled persons assessment and all the 
documents that were provided with it. The DBAAT tool is designed to help establish and 
guide users whether DB transfer advice was suitable in a specific case. In this case the 
skilled person overall thought the advice was suitable and provided their reasoning which I 
have considered. 
However, Im considering this advice independently and Im not bound by what the skilled 
person decided. As set out at the beginning of the decision Ive taken into account COBS 9 
and COBS 19 as well as the Principles, FCA rules and guidance and good industry practice. 
And having done so Ive reached a different outcome for the reasons set out above. This 
doesnt mean I used different considerations to what the regulator set out in their rules and guidance and which is the basis of the DBAAT. I simply dont agree with the skilled persons 
rationale and the ultimate outcome that was reached. 
The skilled person picked up on some of the same issues that I mentioned above, e.g. that 
the information about the PPF benefits was not fair, clear and non-misleading and that Mr H 
had not been given sufficient information to make an informed decision. She noted the lack 
of reassurances that was given about the PPF. She said: we consider this is likely to have 
coloured the clients view towards his options and objectives. She marked the disclosures in 
the suitability report and the DB transfer disclosure as non-compliant.
The skilled person also noted that withdrawals from the pension would likely be higher than 
£12,000 per year. And she noted the death benefits and flexibility Mr H already had without 
the need for a transfer.
She noted that if Mr H remained in the scheme he would not be able to leave lump sum 
benefits to his family and that life insurance as an alternative would likely be expensive due 
to his recent illness. She also mentioned that the cashflow analysis showed the longevity of 
the personal pension. Even though she noted withdrawals would likely be higher, she 
thought that even if additional monthly income of £500 was assumed, this would be 
affordable given the high transfer value.
She concluded that: On balance even though he could have achieved his income 
requirements and some flexibility from the scheme, in light of his recent illness and stated 
objectives for death benefits we consider the transfer could have been suitable. [my 
emphasis].
For the reasons set out earlier in my decision I disagree that the advice was suitable. Mr H 
had generous death benefits which would have provided for his family whenever he died. 
And his existing DB benefits met his objectives for income and flexibility -which I note were 
marked as a higher priority than death benefits in the fact find and suitability report. I cant 
see that different death benefits justified a transfer in this case.
I think Lighthouses failures to provide clear and non-misleading information about Mr Hs 
options, that he could achieve secure benefits as well have flexibility, that his existing death 
benefits were sufficient to take care of his family and that the PPF wasnt as bad as Mr H 
might have thought, are also highly relevant.
The suitability report and recommendation gave a misleading picture that supported instead 
of alleviated Mr Hs fears and concerns about the PPF and about the death benefits in the 
scheme. Lighthouse failed in my view to provide Mr H with a full and balanced picture of his 
options. He was giving up secure and guaranteed benefits which were likely to be higher 
overall, even though he could achieve his objectives of early retirement, flexibility and taking 
care of his family if he died early by remaining in the BSPS. And the same applied if he 
moved to the PPF. 
I cant see any persuasive reason why it was in Mr Hs best interest to transfer out of the 
BSPS. 
summary
Its possible that Mr H was attracted by the idea of transferring. He might have heard from
colleagues that this is what they were doing and he was very concerned about the possibility
of his pension falling to the PPF. And he also was worried about his health in future. So I 
dont doubt that flexibility, control and lump sum death benefits would have also sounded like 
attractive features. But Lighthouse wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr H needed and 
recommend what was in his best interest. 
Mr Hs fear about the PPF and the security of his pension should have been put into 
perspective. If Lighthouse had recommended him to stay and explained their reasons 
properly why Mr H would be better off staying in his DB scheme, that going into the PPF 
wasnt as concerning as he thought and that if he did die prematurely his family would be 
taken care of, I think Mr H likely would have followed their advice. 
Mr H also was about to be given the option to choose to move to a new scheme, the BSPS2, 
so there was a reasonable chance his pension wouldnt end up with the PPF. 
I dont think Lighthouse took reasonable steps to ensure their advice was suitable and in Mr 
Hs best interest. They should have recommended him to remain in his DB scheme and 
await the upcoming information on his available options. Mr H would have shortly after had 
the choice to move to the PPF or transfer to the BSPS2.  And I think reasonable advice 
would have been for Mr H to opt for the BSPS2.
BSPS2 wouldnt have decreased Mr Hs initial entitlement by 10% like the PPF and some of
his benefits would have had potentially higher increases in BSPS2. Under BSPS2, the
spouses pension would be set at 50% of Mr Hs pension at the date of death, and this
would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement. So the spouses pension
would likely have been higher than in the PPF. And I think this would have been important to 
Mr H.
Early retirement factors in the PPF were lower and commutation factors for tax free cash
entitlement were also more favourable under the PPF. However, Mr H was still several years 
from his desired retirement age of 60. So I think these plans could have still reasonably 
changed. And so I think he ought to have been advised to move to the BSPS2.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. I consider he
would have remained a member of the BSPS and subsequently moved to the BSPS2. So
calculations should be made on this assumption.
Lighthouse must undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress 
for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set 
out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
I understand Mr H took a lump sum from his pension in April 2018, at age 55 and repaid his 
mortgage. He continued to work until age 56 and lived off savings until age 57 when he 
accessed income from his pension. 
I carefully considered this and based on the information available from the time of the advice 
there is no indication Mr Hs mortgage was unaffordable and needed to be paid off at age 
55. I think on balance he would have waited until he retired from work to do this if he had 
moved to the BSPS2. I considered that Mr Hs savings which he lived on for a year before 
accessing his pension might have been made up in part of the tax-free cash lump sum he 
took. However, he did have savings of £23,500 when he took the advice in 2017 and I think 
its reasonable to assume he might have accrued more from his disposable income of £830 
per month in the following two years. So I think on balance its reasonable to assume he could have bridged a year with savings in any event. Of course I dont know for certain what 
would have happened if Mr H had remained in the DB scheme. However, overall and based 
on the balance of probabilities, I think its fair and reasonable for Lighthouse to use an 
assumed retirement age from the DB scheme of 57 for the calculations.
Lighthouse should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr H and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Lighthouse should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum
if Mr H accepts Lighthouses offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Mr H may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition Lighthouse should pay Mr H £350 for the distress their unsuitable advice has 
caused him which has led to uncertainty about his pension at a time when he had already 
retired.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above,
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full,as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on
the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr
H can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman