DRN-2728060
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy about the sale of mobile phone insurance to him by The Carphone 
Warehouse Ltd trading as Team Knowhow (CW).
What happened
Mr G contacted CW some years after he bought a mobile phone from it. It had also sold him 
phone insurance as part of the sale and Mr G decided to complain about the insurance sale. 
Mr G said CW had mis-sold the mobile phone insurance to him. CW didnt agree that the 
policy had been mis-sold, Mr G noted that the mis-sale check had been done by CW itself 
and he felt this was biased. So, Mr G brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she didnt think the policy was 
unsuitable and that Mr G was made aware that the policy was optional.
Mr G didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within the investigation CW informed us that Mr G had two different mobile phone policies 
through it. One had been bought online and one in store. This case refers only to the in store 
purchase.
Mr G said that he felt pressurised into buying the mobile phone insurance. He referred to the 
technique as a polite aggressive technique. The salesperson used tactics such as 
something is bound to go wrong. But Mr G did also point out that the salesperson 
confirmed that the policy could be cancelled within a certain time threshold. This final point 
was of interest as Mr G was unaware if his wife had alternative cover already arranged 
elsewhere.
It is publicly documented that a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) investigation found 
failings in CW sales procedures from 2008 to 2015. The FCA report agreed to reduce the 
fine on CW as it agreed to provide redress to its affected customers. However, this leaves us 
with the issue of who is an affected customer. On this point this service considers two things:
whether there has been a failing by a business and, if so,
whether (and how) the person bringing the complaint has been affected by that.
If I decide the sales process was flawed but a consumer would still have bought the policy 
anyway, they wont necessarily have lost out as a result of those failings. So, I need to 
consider not just what CW did, but whether Mr G would have acted differently but for any 
failing and suffered any loss or harm as a result.
was the policy suitable?
CW is required to provide customers with clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy, at the point of sale. As an advised sale, it was also required to take reasonable steps 
to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr G. This would include if he needed it and whether he 
had cover elsewhere that could provide the same cover. Based on the FCAs investigation I 
think its likely there were failings in the way CW assessed policy suitability for Mr G. But 
even if thats the case I dont think the policy was unsuitable for his needs. Mr G mentioned 
that he was aware he could cancel the policy within a certain time threshold. So, he did 
have the opportunity to check and cancel it if he wanted to. If Mr G was as unhappy about 
the sale, as he now states, he could have cancelled that policy within the time allowed. It 
doesnt appear that the policy was unaffordable or lacking benefits Mr G required. Ive seen 
no evidence to suggest the policy was unsuitable or unnecessary for Mr Gs needs.
Was the optional nature of the policies made clear to Mr G
CW did provide this service with the copy sales documents. This shows signature and 
acceptance from Mr G confirming that the policy wasnt compulsory to get the phone. I think 
this is useful evidence. Mr G was buying a new phone and wasnt sure if he had another 
policy to cover it. Ive also thought about whether Mr G knew he could buy a phone without 
insurance. And the FCA report did refer to cancellation calls in which customers said they 
were told the insurance was compulsory. But Mr G hasnt provided evidence that persuades 
me this actually happened to him. Based on the information available to me, I dont have 
enough to show CW has done something unfair or unreasonable.
To accept Mr G was pressured into taking out this policy, Id need to be satisfied that the 
way it was presented to him meant that, although he knew it was optional, he felt he had little 
choice but to take it out. I havent seen such evidence in this case. For these reasons, Im 
not satisfied Mr G was sold a policy that wasnt suitable or that he was pressured into buying 
it, not knowing it was optional.
So, I dont think CW acted unfairly or unreasonably. In this case I wont be asking CW to 
take any further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against The Carphone Warehouse Ltd trading as Team Knowhow.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman