DRN-3451082
The complaint
Mr H complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited reported late payments to the 
credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with BMWFS.
Mr H is unhappy that BMWFS reported late payments to the credit reference agencies. He 
says he made all of his payments on time and in the correct amount.
Mr H says that as a result of the adverse information on his credit file, he was unable to 
obtain a mortgage.
Mr H initially complained to BMWFS in September 2020. At the time, BMWFS removed the 
adverse information.
Following this, further late payments were reported by BMWFS. Mr H complained again.
In response, BMWFS said the late payment markers reflected the fact that no payments had 
been made to Mr Hs agreement since September 2020. It reviewed the account and said it 
could see that payments had been made using an old reference number, so the payments 
hadnt been allocated to the agreement. BMWFS said it had arranged for the payments to be 
allocated to Mr Hs agreement, and for the adverse markers to be removed from his credit 
file in relation to these payments. BMWFS advised Mr H that once the payments had been 
allocated, the arrears balance would be £802.38, reflecting payments due to December 2020 
and January 2021 instalments. BMWFS advised Mr H that he would need to make a manual 
payment to clear the arrears, and that once this was done, the adverse markers for these 
months would ne removed from his credit file. BMWFS acknowledged that it could have 
done more to manage Mr Hs agreement and offered compensation of £200.
Unhappy with the response, Mr H brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although BMWFS could have 
been more proactive in allocating payments to the agreement, it had acted reasonably by 
removing the adverse markers and offering £200 compensation.
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed incurred financial losses and had been caused distress and 
inconvenience. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that BMWFS couldve done more to manage Mr Hs agreement. It has 
acknowledged that Mr H made his payments, but that these werent allocated to his 
agreement because he used an old reference number. The issue appears to have stemmed 
from the fact that Mr Hs direct debit details didnt update when the agreement was reloaded 
in September 2020 following his initial complaint.
The compensation payment of £200 offered by BMWFS is to reflect its service failings. It 
doesnt reflect any financial losses suffered by Mr H.
Mr H has said that the adverse information on his credit file meant that he was unbale to 
obtain a mortgage offer, and that as a result he lost his deposit and had nowhere to live. He 
wants compensation for the financial losses he suffered, which he puts at £50,000, as well 
as compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Where a consumer says theyve been impacted financially, Im able to look at a potential 
claim for compensation if Im provided with evidence showing that the financial loss was as a 
direct result of the actions of the business in reporting the adverse information. So, in this 
case, Id need to see evidence that the sole reasons why Mr H was declined a mortgage was 
because of the adverse information reported by BMWFS. Id also need to see evidence 
showing exactly what losses Mr H had incurred, and Id need to be satisfied that these 
losses were directly related to the adverse information reported by BMWFS.
Mr H hasnt provided this evidence. So, Im unable to conclude that any compensation for 
financial loss is due.
I appreciate that Mr H has been caused a degree of distress and inconvenience by all of this. 
BMWFS has removed the markers from Mr Hs credit file and has offered compensation of 
£200, which I think is fair and reasonable, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman