DRN-2114274
The complaint
Ms C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt tell her that it had accessed her 
safe deposit box.
What happened
Ms C had a safe deposit box held at a branch of NatWest. In June 2019 the bank carried out 
an audit of boxes held at the branch. That audit revealed that Ms Cs box had been opened, 
so the auditors made a note of the contents, re-sealed the box and returned it. 
In September 2019 Ms C accessed her box. In doing so, she identified that it had been 
opened. The bank explained what had happened in the course of the audit. Ms C confirmed 
that nothing was missing from the box, but she said that a piece of jewellery had been 
damaged.  
Following meetings with the local director, the bank agreed to pay Ms C the estimate cost of 
repairing the jewellery and to reimburse her parking costs and to refund safe custody 
charges. The bank also provided a formal written apology for what had happened. 
Ms C didnt think that went far enough and referred the case to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered it. He thought that, in addition to the compensation already paid, the 
bank should pay Ms C a further £75 in recognition of the distress shed suffered and the 
inconvenience to which shed been put. NatWest agreed but Ms C didnt and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, NatWest was within its rights to conduct an audit of the items held in safe 
custody. Had it not done so, it wouldnt have identified that Ms Cs box had been opened  
and that could have remained undetected until she next accessed it. Nor do I think it had to 
tell customers generally that it was carrying out an audit. However, I think it would have been 
good practice to tell Ms C that, in the course of the audit, it had identified a problem  
namely that the box appeared not to be secure. 
I note however that the bank has taken responsibility for the damage found to one of the 
items in the box. Its not clear whether the bank in fact caused that damage, but I think 
compensating Ms C on the basis of the estimated costs of repair is fair. 
In addition, the bank reimbursed Ms C for her parking costs when she visited the bank and 
waived some of the safe custody fees. It apologised for what had happened. 
I agree with the investigator, however, that some compensation in recognition of the distress 
this has caused Ms C and of the inconvenience to which shes been put is also appropriate 
here. And I agree too that £75 is a fair sum in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
NatWest has agreed to offer the sum of £75 suggested by the investigator. I will however 
make a formal award in any event, so that Ms C can enforce it, should she need to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Ms C £75 in order to 
resolve her complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman