DRN-3908111
The complaint
Mr S complains about British Friendly Society Limiteds service when he claimed on his 
income protection insurance policy.
What happened
On 10 June 2022 Mr S claimed on his income protection policy with British Friendly for a  
work-related injury. British Friendly emailed Mr S GP surgerys reception to ask for his 
medical information as part of assessing the claim. 
Mr S complains that British Friendly caused unnecessary delay in processing his claim. He 
said:
Around 15 July 2022 British Friendly told him the surgery still hadnt sent his medical 
report and he offered to help get a response. The practice manager told him 
British Friendly needed to email her direct but when he told British Friendly it ignored 
him. It sent chasing emails to the surgery reception even though he said many times 
the reception wouldnt forward, or would lose, the request. 
On 9 August 2022 he insisted British Friendly call the practice manager, which it 
finally did. About two weeks later the practice manager told him the medical report 
was ready. Even then British Friendly didnt know the report was at its head office. 
He had to constantly chase British Friendly and the stress of waiting for the claim to 
be finalised caused a lot of tension and upset in his family.
British Friendly said:
It had requested medical information from Mr S GP surgery on 21 June 2022. It 
wasnt standard practice for an insurer to send a medical report request directly to a 
GP surgery practice manager unless thats specifically advertised on the surgery 
contact details, which it wasnt. And the surgery reception should forward any request 
it got to the person who could deal with the request.
It sent chasing emails to the receptions email address between 24 June and 12 July 
2022 asking if the request had been received. On the 13 July 2022 it received 
confirmation from the surgery that the request had been forwarded to the practice 
manager who would be in contact when she was next in the office on 15 July 2022.
When it spoke to the practice manager on 9 August 2022 she told it the surgery had 
lost its request for a medical report and asked British Friendly to reissue the request, 
which it did. The surgery completed the medical report on 30 August 2022 and was 
received by British Friendlys head office on 5 September 2022. Once it got the 
medical report it assessed and paid the claim within five working days.
It accepted it could have phoned the surgery to find out why it was taking so long to 
complete the medical report but it couldnt control GP surgeries response times. It 
also accepted it could have done more to keep Mr S informed about the situation. It 
paid him £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Mr S said £50 compensation wasnt enough and he wants considerably more.
Our investigator said the compensation British Friendly paid for Mr S distress and 
inconvenience was a reasonable amount as the delays were mostly due to the GP surgery.
Mr S disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said his claim would have been 
resolved quickly if British Friendly had followed his instruction to send the request to the 
practice manager.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr S was very frustrated with the delay in getting his medical report. But I have to 
decide whether British Friendlys payment of £50 compensation for Mr S distress and 
inconvenience was fair and reasonable for the poor service it was responsible for, and I think 
it was. So I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered British Friendlys records it made at the time. When British Friendly received 
the claim it took about eleven days to decide what further information it needed to assess the 
claim and send the GP surgery the request for medical information, so there was no delay 
making the request. In the circumstances of the case Im satisfied British Friendly reasonably 
wanted Mr S medical information so it could decide if the claim was valid.
I think British Friendly acted reasonably in sending its initial request and chasing emails from 
24 June to 12 July to the surgery receptions email address. Ive seen no evidence that the 
surgerys contact details at the time said such requests had to be sent directly to the practice 
manager. Also British Friendly could reasonably understand that the reception staff would 
pass its request to the right person to answer the request, thats what should have 
happened.
British Friendly told Mr S there was a delay with getting the medical report when he phoned 
to chase the claim on 19 July. On 20 July he told British Friendly it needed to send the 
request to the practice manager and she could respond in about two weeks. Mr S says his 
claim could have been resolved quickly if British Friendly had followed his instruction. But by 
then the surgery had already told British Friendly on 13 July that the request had been 
passed to the practice manager who would be in contact. So I think British Friendly didnt 
need to reissue the request to the practice manager on 20 July as, from what the surgery 
said, it reasonably understood the practice manager already had the request and was 
collecting Mr S medical information.
Mr S continued to chase British Friendly and was very annoyed to be told the surgery still 
hadnt provided the medical report. On 9 August British Friendly agreed to call the practice 
manager for an update. It was only then that the practice manager told British Friendly the 
surgery had lost the request and asked for it to be reissued.
Mr S has said even if his GP surgery lost the request that was because of British Friendlys 
incompetence, but I dont agree. As Ive said, British Friendly reasonably sent the initial 
request and initial chasers to the receptions email address. Until the practice manager told 
British Friendly the surgery had lost the request I think British Friendly reasonably 
understood the practice manager was actioning its request as the surgery had told it that 
was happening.British Friendly could have called the practice manager between 20 July and 8 August to 
chase the report, but Mr S told it the practice manager would take about two weeks to 
prepare the report so I understand why it waited. And British Friendly could reasonably 
expect the practice manager to contact it sooner if the surgery had lost the request as it was 
known Mr S was waiting for the report.
The surgery completed the medical report on 30 August. That was over two months after  
British Friendly first made the request to the surgery and about seven weeks after the 
surgery told British Friendly the request had been passed to the practice manager to action. 
British Friendlys head office received the medical report on 5 September and it authorised 
Mr S claim on 12 September. So once it received the medical report it didnt delay finalising 
the claim.
Mr S had to call British Friendly several times to find out what was delaying the claim. The 
lack of updates was very frustrating for him at a worrying time. British Friendly should have 
kept Mr S more informed, which it accepts. But for the reasons Ive given above 
British Friendly wasnt responsible for most of the delay in his claim being authorised.
I think the £50 compensation payment British Friendly made to Mr S for his distress and 
inconvenience was a fair and reasonable amount for not keeping Mr S more informed about 
the situation and its small role in the delay of his claim being authorised. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman