DRN-2914980
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S are unhappy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds (LBGI) handling 
of their home insurance claim. 
They want compensation for the stress they have been through whilst their claim was 
completed.
There are several parties and representatives of LBGI involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to LBGI.
What happened
On 22 July 2020 a pipe in the bathroom at Mr and Mrs Ss house burst and water poured 
through the lounge ceiling. Mr S turned the water off at the stopcock and called a plumber 
who fixed the leak.
Mr and Mrs S then made a claim on their home insurance that they held with LBGI.
A LBGI representative attended and confirmed that the damage caused by the water would 
mean that the house would need to be dried out with specialist equipment. A dehumidifier 
and a blower were installed. It was expected that the drying process would take between 3-4 
weeks. 
The representative stated in their report that the house would need a strip out of floor 
coverings to the kitchen and hallway, the ceiling would need testing for asbestos and all 
electrics needed to be tested.
On a second visit, approximately 2 weeks later, some of the flooring was stripped out by the 
representatives but they were unable to remove all the kitchen flooring as due to the it going 
underneath the kitchen units, this would need a building contractor.  Electrical items were 
tested and a list of lounge contents that were to be replaced was completed. Further 
equipment was installed to help speed up the drying process.
During this time Mr and Mrs S were unable to use the lounge and were confined mainly to 
the upstairs of the house which consists of one bedroom and the bathroom. The drying 
equipment created heat whilst in the house, in what was already warm summer weather. 
These were far from ideal circumstances.  
Mr and Mrs S planned and arranged with LBGI that whilst they were away on a holiday that 
further work would be undertaken at their property. On return from their holiday nothing had 
been done. They contacted LBGI and made a complaint regarding delays. They also 
complained that they were unhappy with progress with other parts of their claim and said 
that no one was dealing with the contents claim.
Mr S eventually organised the strip out of the flooring with his own contractors.
During the time since the claim started Mr and Mrs S contacted LBGI and their 
representatives on numerous occasions, some attempts were met with automated 
messages which made them feel even more frustrated and unimportant.
In September 2020 LBGI made a compensation offer of £250 for the poor service received 
during their claim but this was refused by Mr and Mrs S.
The claim was finally settled in October 2020 as follows
After obtaining quotes - a cash settlement was accepted for completion of all repairs 
by Mr and Mrs Ss own contractors.
Settlement was agreed for soft furnishings, furniture and replacement electrical items 
the lounge.
Reimbursement for cost of electricity to power the drying equipment.
On 26 September 2020 the property was considered dry and the equipment was removed.
There was another delay in LBGI representatives contacting Mr and Mrs S to make an 
appointment to assess damage to carpets and after investigating the complaint for this it 
offered a payment of £75 for this delay. 
Mr and Mrs S further complained that they were unhappy with the length of time the drying 
took to complete. LBGI did not agree with this complaint and said that the length of time 
varies due to a number of factors including the amount of escaped water.  
  
As Mrs S and Mrs S were not happy with LBGIs offer of £250 further compensation for the 
delays they brought the complaint to our service.  In total £325 compensation had been 
offered. (£75 accepted for delay in contact to assess carpet damage and £250 offered for 
poor service).  
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He decided that LBGI should pay a further £275 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs S by the delays 
caused by LBGI (Total of £600). 
As Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me 
for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S made a number of complaints, to both LBGI and directly to its suppliers most 
of which relate to delays and poor customer service. In my response I shall deal with most of 
them together as the underlying theme in most of these complaints is about delays and poor 
customer service. 
Mr and Mrs Ss house is quite small with a kitchen and a living room downstairs and a 
bedroom and bathroom upstairs and during  this time they say they were unable to use the 
lounge in their house as there was equipment installed and running to dry the rooms out so 
that it could be repaired and refurbished. I believe that this will not have been an easy time 
for them. They had noise, heat and dirt created by the drying equipment, plus the summer 
heat as well as living in limited space all to contend with. 
In addition to the dry out of the house there were also other areas of the claim to agree and sort out between Mr and Mrs S and LBGI. These incuded the building work to put the house 
back together once dried, the floor coverings to be replaced and items of furniture and 
electical items to be replaced. The evidence shows that there were delays and a lack of 
commincation channels across all areas of the claim.  
I can see from the evidence presented that Mr and Mrs S were contacting some of the 
suppliers direct as they tried to progress the claim. 
LBGI used different suppliers to undertake these different parts of the claim. As the insurer 
LBGI are responsible for all the suppliers that they engage with, to co-ordinate the claim.. 
I can see that LBGI did appoint a supplier to manage the claim but this was changed part 
way through the claim. LBGI agree that the claim definitely could have been handled better. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ss frustration  as from the day of the leak they were living in 
less than ideal conditions which I feel will have been stressful at anytime of the year.
Mr and Mrs S went away on holiday expecting work to have progressed on their return. 
Nothing had been done. I imagine the benefits to their overall wellbeing that was gained by 
taking a break from the situation at home would have been quickly cancelled out by the 
stress of returning to exactly what they left. I consider this to be an unacceptable delay by 
LBGI.  
After the house was finally signed off as dry in September Mr and Mrs S received payment 
for the rest of their claim in October and were finally able to get their building work completed 
to put the house back to how it was before the leak. 
An estimate of 3-4 weeks to dry the house was given at the start of the claim I dont think 
that anyone could be specific on how long it would take to be totally dry but there is not an 
acceptable reason for it taking more than twice as long as the estimate  a total of 9 weeks. I 
believe that it would have been much quicker if the stripping out of the flooring was 
undertaken sooner. It was possible to do it sooner but poor communication across the 
supply chain used by LBGI caused unnecessary delays and in turn unnecessary 
inconvenience and stress to Mr and Mrs S. 
Therefore, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and a total compensation payment of £600 
should be paid to accurately reflect the distress and inconvenience that they suffered A total 
of £525 for the poor customer service they received and delays, and £75 for the delay in 
contact to assess carpet damage. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given uphold this complaint.
I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £600 
compensation. Less any amounts already paid.
Lloyds banking General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman