DRN-2003291
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs M says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In August 1990 Mrs M applied for a store card and it was issued to her without PPI. 
In May1992, PPI was added to her account. AXA says this happened following a telephone 
call.
Its likely that the policy cost no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs M owed on her store card and 
it protected Mrs Ms store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Mrs M disagreed with out adjudicators opinion. She mainly says that there was no mention 
of PPI when she took out this card and she didnt receive any telephone calls. Mrs M told us 
that she never took out any PPI or warranties she wasnt informed about.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
AXA hasnt been able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used at the time. 
So I dont know what it said to Mrs M when the policy was sold. But based on what this 
service knows about the sales process it seems likely that AXA wouldve taken the 
opportunity to explain the main features of the policy to see if Mrs M wanted to take it out. 
Given that the policy was taken out when shed already had her store card for a couple of 
years without PPI, I think Mrs M wouldve been aware that the policy was an optional extra. 
Its completely understandable that Mrs M has now forgotten all about this call. And I dont 
doubt that shes sure about what shes told us. But I wouldnt expect Mrs M to recall a phone 
call from such a long time ago. So what Mrs M says isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold her complaint.  
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely  making 
reasonable assumptions where I need to. 
Looking at Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, I can see that she mightve had a use for the 
policy.
On balance, I think its likely that Mrs M decided during the course of the phone call that she 
wanted to protect her card monthly repayments and the PPI was added to her account when 
she chose to buy the policy offered. I dont think its likely that the policy wouldve been 
added to her account otherwise. Mrs M wouldve been able to see from her card statement 
when she was paying for PPI and I think its likely that she wouldve complained about this at 
the time if she hadnt wanted the policy. 
I dont think AXA advised Mrs M to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Mrs M with clear information 
about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
The policy document from the date Mrs M took out PPI is no longer available. But Ive relied 
on a policy document which was in use just a few months later  and I think its likely that in 
all main respects the policy that Mrs M took out wouldve had similar terms and conditions.
Mrs M appears to have been eligible for the policy which paid out a benefit if Mrs M couldnt 
work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Mrs M has told us she had good sick pay benefits through work. But the policy wouldve paid 
out on top of sick pay, and for as long as she was off sick, providing a useful benefit at 
whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mrs M needed to claim as she mightve had extra 
costs if she was ill or disabled. 
It couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card until the outstanding balance was 
cleared if she wasnt able to go back to work. 
And PPI provided more dependable cover than relying on someone else to help out in the 
event of money problems. 
So I think Mrs M couldve benefitted from having the policy. 
Its possible some of the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But I havent seen enough 
information to make me think that Mrs M wouldnt have been able to take advantage of all 
the policy benefits. 
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs M to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think its 
likely that if Mrs M had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve 
thought the policy potentially useful. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy 
was a problem for Mrs M when she signed up to have it. And she took it out when she didnt 
have to, so it seems she wanted the cover. 
Looked at overall, I dont think having clearer information wouldve put Mrs M off taking out 
the policy, given her situation at the time.
This means that, even if AXA didnt give Mrs M all the information it shouldve done when it 
sold her the policy, I dont find that Mrs M has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything that Mrs M has said in response 
to our adjudicators view. But for the reasons Ive explained, these points dont change my 
conclusion. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman