DRN-2016022
 
The complaint
Mr M and Mr N complain that National Westminster Bank plc wrongly advised them to repay 
debts before applying for a mortgage. They ask that NatWest pays compensation and 
removes its credit search from their credit files.
What happened
Mr M and Mr N applied for a mortgage with NatWest. They say the adviser told them it would 
be better to use about £6,500 of their intended deposit to repay existing debts. NatWest then 
declined their application. Mr M and Mr N say they had to apply elsewhere with a smaller 
deposit. They had to borrow more, meaning the mortgage will cost them more overall.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part, saying:
it wasnt fair to ask NatWest to remove the credit search from Mr N and Mr Ms credit 
record, as this was carried out. Nor did she think NatWest should refund the money they 
used to repay their debts, as this was money they owed.
she couldnt be sure Mr N and Mr M would have been offered a mortgage by another 
provider if the debts were outstanding. So she didnt recommend NatWest pay 
compensation for any additional interest.
while it wasnt clear that NatWest advised Mr N and Mr M to repay debts, it paused their 
application to allow them to do this. If NatWest had made the credit check earlier, their 
application would have been declined before the debts were paid. 
The adjudicator recommended NatWest pay compensation of £450, which it agreed to do.
Mr N and Mr M didnt agree. Mr N said the loan they repaid had a low interest rate compared 
to the interest they are paying on the mortgage. They said £450 doesnt cover their financial 
loss due to the additional interest over the term of the mortgage. 
I didnt agree with all of the adjudicators recommendations, so I sent a provisional decision 
to the parties to explain what I thought about this complaint. In summary, I didnt think it was 
likely that NatWest had advised Mr M and Mr N to repay debts. I didnt think NatWest should 
have carried out a credit check when the application had failed affordability tests. And while I 
thought NatWest could have done more to ensure Mr M and Mr N understood the possible 
consequences of repaying the debt, I didnt think this would have changed the outcome. 
Mr N and Mr M didnt agree. They dispute that their application failed affordability tests. They 
provided a copy of a suitability letter which said the mortgage was affordable. They said they 
wouldnt have repaid the debts if they hadnt been advised to do so, and told theyd passed 
affordability requirements and other checks.
Im sorry that theres been a delay in issuing my final decision. I wanted to ask NatWest 
about the suitability letter and what Mr N and Mr M said. I wanted to ensure I understand 
what happened here, given the very different accounts provided by the parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr N and Mr M contacted NatWest about a mortgage. NatWest issued a decision in principle 
and made an appointment for them with a mortgage adviser.
During the appointment, the mortgage adviser found Mr N and Mr M had a loan and credit 
card debt they hadnt disclosed. NatWest says once this was added to their expenditure, the 
application didnt meet affordability requirements and the application was paused. Mr N and 
Mr M repaid some debt after which their application passed NatWests affordability tests. But 
NatWest then carried out a credit check and the application was declined.
Mr N and Mr M say this isnt right. They say they were told theyd passed affordability and 
other checks. And it was then that NatWest advised them to repay debts. 
Its unfortunate there isnt a recording of the call and I appreciate Mr N and Mr Ms frustration 
about this. The suitability letter is, confusingly, dated before the meeting with the mortgage 
adviser. Its unclear whether the letter was issued after the debt was repaid, or before, and if 
so whether this was on the basis the debt would be repaid.
Taking all the circumstances into account, I think what NatWest said is likely correct. I dont 
think I can fairly find that NatWest advised Mr N and Mr M to repay debts. Its not clear why  
if the mortgage was affordable with the debts outstanding  this would be the best course of 
action. I dont know why the application would have been paused if affordability requirements 
had been met. I think its more likely affordability was a problem, and Mr N and Mr M felt they 
had to repay some of their debt, if they wanted their application with NatWest to continue.
Nonetheless, NatWest's adviser knew that Mr N and Mr M intended to repay debts and Ive 
thought about what she should have done at this point. She couldnt reasonably have 
continued with the application, which had failed affordability tests, unless Mr N and Mr Ms 
circumstances changed. She paused the application until Mr N and Mr M confirmed theyd 
paid off some debt. The alternative would have been for the adviser to say she wouldnt take 
the application further, regardless of whether the debts were repaid. I dont think this would 
have been fair. Given Mr N and Mr Ms application had failed affordability tests, I dont think 
its reasonable to say the adviser should have run a credit check, which would have left a 
record on their credit files, at a point when the application couldn't proceed.
But repaying debts, and thereby reducing the amount they had available for a deposit, 
potentially had consequences for Mr N and Mr M. Its not clear that the adviser made them 
aware of this. She couldnt tell them how other providers would view their application if they 
werent successful in obtaining a mortgage from NatWest. But she could have suggested 
Mr N and Mr M look into this  possibly with the help of an independent financial adviser  
before repaying the debts. 
But I dont think the outcome would have been different if she had. From what Mr N and 
Mr M have said, they knew they had to choose how to use their savings  to reduce debt or 
towards their deposit  and this could potentially affect what mortgages and interest rates 
were available. At this point, NatWest had said their application was unaffordable due to 
their outstanding debt. From what they say, Mr N and Mr M expected NatWest to assess the mortgage as affordable if the debt was reduced (which in fact it did). So I think, even if the 
adviser had warned them of the possible risks and suggested they take independent advice, 
its likely they would have still repaid the debts in the hope this would allow the mortgage to 
proceed.
Mr N and Mr M say they wouldnt have repaid the debts if NatWest hadnt said theyd passed 
all checks and there wouldnt be a problem with their application. But their application had 
just failed affordability checks due to debts they hadnt disclosed. NatWests adviser couldnt 
have known Mr N and Mr Ms application would fail credit checks. But, in the circumstances, 
I think its unlikely NatWest would have given them assurances there would be no further 
problems.
I don't think it's reasonable to require NatWest to remove the credit search from Mr N and 
Mr M's credit records. I think it was fair for NatWest to carry out the search as part of the 
application process.
Mr N and Mr M have taken out a mortgage with another provider. They say the amount they 
borrowed increased because they had less money available for a deposit. But repaying the 
debts would have reduced their monthly outgoings, meaning they had more income 
available for the mortgage payments. I cant be certain theyd have been able to obtain a 
mortgage for the same amount, over the same term or at a better interest rate if the debt 
was outstanding. So I cant fairly find that theyve suffered a financial disadvantage. It follows 
that I don't think it's fair and reasonable to require NatWest to pay compensation to Mr M 
and Mr N.
Mr N and Mr M say they are looking at getting legal advice into how theyve been financially 
disadvantaged. If they dont accept my decision, they will be free to raise their concerns in a 
court, if they choose to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman