DRN-2128269
The complaint
Mr L complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his chargeback requests.
What happened
Mr L says he asked HSBC to raise chargeback requests for payments he made in March 
and June 2018 for visa applications which he says were not successful. He says he spoke to 
HSBC about the transactions, but it didnt raise the chargebacks. He also says HSBC didnt 
call him back and didnt sent him e-mails. Mr L says HSBC didnt deal appropriately with the 
chargebacks and didnt tell him what was going on. He says HSBCs actions caused him 
stress and would like compensation for what took place and for the refunds he should have 
been paid.
HSBC says it told Mr L in a number of calls that it required him to send it details of the 
dispute and provide evidence of what had taken place. It says it wrote to Mr L on a number 
of occasions about the chargeback explaining what it needed and then explaining why it 
couldnt proceed with it as that information hadnt been provided. HSBC says it was likely Mr 
L was out of time for raising the first chargeback when he approached it in any event.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
listened to the call recordings between the parties and thought HSBC had explained what it 
needed but one of the calls ended due to Mr Ls choice of language. The investigator 
thought HSBC had sent Mr L five letters and sent e-mails and secure messages to him 
about the information needed and the outcome of his complaint. And it wasnt HSBCs fault 
that Mr L didnt receive the letters.
Mr L doesnt accept that view and in summary says HSBC kept asking him questions about 
the transactions and didnt ask him for supporting documents for his chargeback. He also 
says in a later chargeback HSBC e-mailed him the required forms to complete.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that HSBC has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I realise Mr L will be disappointed by my decision. I also appreciate how strongly 
he feels about what took place.
The chargeback rules are set by the card providers and not as in this case by HSBC. The 
chargeback scheme is voluntary with no guarantee of success and there are strict time limits 
for making a claim. I can see that Mr L asked HSBC to raise a chargeback on 12 October 
2018 and I have listened to that call. Im satisfied that HSBC made clear to Mr L that it 
needed further evidence of the chargeback claim and that there would be no guarantee any 
chargeback would be successful. Im also satisfied that it would have been unlikely a 
chargeback could have been made in any event in respect of the March 2018 transaction as 
Mr L was out of time for doing so.
I appreciate Mr L says he didnt receive any of the letters HSBC sent him about the 
chargeback. I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for that as its not responsible for the safe 
delivery of mail. But in any event, Im satisfied that HSBC told Mr L that it needed evidence 
of the transactions and for full information about why he wanted to make a chargeback. I 
think that request was repeated in a number of calls. So, Im satisfied that Mr L ought 
reasonably to have been aware he needed to provide that information even if he didnt 
receive any of the letters or was unaware of the other ways HSBC tried to communicate with 
him.
I accept Mr L says some of the calls dropped between him and HSBC but having listened 
to the calls I think they were ended by HSBC due to Mr L choice of language and tone rather 
than by accident. But Im satisfied that on those calls HSBC had explained what it needed 
from Mr L and later why it couldnt raise the chargebacks.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC has dealt with this complaint fairly and hasnt made a mistake. I 
think it explained to Mr L when he first called it the chargeback rules and what it needed to 
make one. I dont think Mr L ever provided that information in writing as HSBC asked him to 
do or provided it with any evidence of trying to sort out the dispute with the business he 
made the payments to. For those reasons I cant fairly order HSBC to refund the payments 
or pay Mr L any compensation. And I think its up to HSBC to decide in which form it requires 
the evidence sent to it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman