DRN-3927753
The complaint
Ms M says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her unemployment insurance policy.
What happened
Ms M took the policy out in 2011 following a meeting about her protection needs. This was 
an advised sale. Ms M said HSBC gave her poor advice which ultimately led to this policy 
being mis-sold. Specifically, Ms M said HSBC didnt advise her that the insurer she chose 
could withdraw the product from the market at any time. Ms M said this was something 
HSBC ought to have told her as her insurer decided to do this 11 years later in 2022. She 
also said HSBC should have told her the premiums were non-refundable in these 
circumstances. 
HSBC said it gave accurate advice based on her financial circumstances and needs at the 
time. It said Ms M wanted protection in the event she was to become unemployed and that it 
made a recommendation on that basis. It also said Ms M was provided with all the 
necessary documentation at the time and that the policy terms explained cover could be 
withdrawn at any time, provided ample notice was given to her, as defined by the policy 
terms. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. She said HSBC did what it was supposed 
to. She also said this particular point is so niche that she wouldnt have expected HSBC to 
explain that as part of the advice process, unless it was something Ms M had specifically 
asked about. There was no evidence to suggest she had and so she didnt find in Ms Ms 
favour. 
Ms M, unhappy with this, asked for an ombudsman to consider her case. And so, its now for 
me to make a final decision. I should also say Im considering Ms Ms other complaint 
against the insurer.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it and for the same reasons already explained by 
our investigator. HSBC, whilst giving advice, wouldnt be able to explain every eventuality, 
nor would I reasonably expect it to. Ive considered the demand and needs statement taken 
at the time and Im satisfied the advice given was suitable. I also consider the insurance 
cover recommended at the time suitable for Ms M. Ill explain why.
Ms M said she wanted to arrange protection for some of her financial commitments should 
she find herself unemployed. Shed arranged for other protection policies through HSBC, but 
she didnt have anything in place for unemployment. And so, Im satisfied that was her 
primary need when HSBC recommended her the policy.
Ive not seen any evidence to show that she was concerned about whether the insurer could 
withdraw the product. This is important because Ms Ms argument is that HSBC should have 
told her this could potentially happen. But Im not persuaded by that because I consider this 
to be such a specific what if that I dont think its a reasonable expectation. I think thats 
further supported by the fact Ms M didnt question it at the time.
I should also say that this isnt an unusual term, or anything Id consider to be a significant 
limitation in terms of insurance. And so, I dont think its unreasonable that HSBC didnt 
mention it during the sales policy. I note Ms Ms argument that she would have sourced a 
policy with another insurer had she been told HSBC could withdraw her cover, but for the 
reason Ive just given, I find that highly unlikely as this is a common term that features within 
most policies.
In addition, Im satisfied Ms M was provided with all the necessary sales literature and policy 
documents at the time and this was explained within that information. Ultimately, it was Ms 
Ms responsibility to ensure the policy met her requirements and she could have checked the 
sales literature at the time. She was able to cancel the policy if it didnt as she was given a 
30-day cooling off period to do that. And so, I dont uphold her complaint because I dont 
consider HSBC to have done anything wrong here.   
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman