DRN-3319537
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc was unfair to withdraw their 
overpayment fund when they asked to port their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs N had a mortgage with the Co-op. This had a feature (referred to as an 
overpayment fund) which allowed them to make payments which were offset against their 
mortgage balance, but which they could later withdraw. Mr and Mrs N had paid enough into 
their overpayment fund to fully offset the mortgage balance, meaning their account didnt 
incur interest and they didnt need to make any monthly payments.
In mid-2020 Mr and Mrs N applied to port their mortgage product and take out additional 
borrowing. Co-op told them the new mortgage wouldnt have the overpayment fund feature. 
However, it didnt tell them it would withdraw the overpayment fund on their existing 
mortgage before it made a mortgage offer. It transferred the overpayment fund balance to Mr 
and Mrs Ns account with another bank without first discussing this with them. 
Mr and Mrs N didnt port the mortgage. They repaid it in late 2020. Theyre unhappy that 
they lost the benefit of the overpayment fund in the meantime. And they say it was wrong for 
Co-op to pay their money to another bank, potentially putting it at risk.
Our investigator said while Co-op should have explained earlier what would happen, it had 
done enough to put matters rights. 
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Co-op says when porting a mortgage, its process is to remove the overpayment fund before 
issuing the mortgage offer. It explained the reasons why it does this. Mr and Mrs N say it 
should have a better process with the overpayment fund withdrawn at or nearer to 
completion. They dont think the explanation Co-op gave justifies withdrawing it sooner. But, 
ultimately, its for Co-op to decide on its processes. It says it follows this process to ensure 
its mortgage offer is for the right amount and avoid causing delays at completion. I dont 
think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Co-op to provide further 
explanation or justification for its process to Mr and Mrs N. 
However, Co-op didnt tell Mr and Mrs N beforehand that it would withdraw the overpayment 
fund before issuing a mortgage offer, or how this would happen. 
Co-op withdrew the overpayment fund and transferred the money in the overpayment fund to 
Mr and Mrs Ns account at another bank in mid-September 2020. This was about two 
months before the expected completion date for their sale and purchase. Mr and Mrs N 
didnt port the mortgage. They repaid the mortgage in December 2020.
Mr and Mrs N incurred interest on the mortgage balance and had to resume monthly 
mortgage payments between September and December 2020. Co-op says interest was 
about £13 per month, and this was covered by its offer of £50 compensation. It says Mr and 
Mrs N werent caused a loss by any capital repayments made as this reduced the balance 
they repaid in December 2020. I think this is correct. 
Mr N says Co-op shouldnt have transferred the funds to another bank without his knowledge 
or consent. He says this put his capital at risk. Mr N has explained he had a previous 
experience when a bank failed and he had to make a claim to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme. 
I agree that Co-op should have managed this better. Co-op asked Mr N in an email the 
overpayment fund of [] needs to be at a zero balance. Please can you confirm if you would 
like this capitalized back on the mortgage or paid back to yourselves. Mr N replied saying 
he didnt understand the question and said he intended to use the money towards the 
property purchase. If Co-op had explained what was happening better, Mr and Mrs N would 
have been able to decide where theyd like the funds to be sent. That said, Mr and Mrs N 
havent said that there was actually any problem with the money or the account it was 
transferred to. If Mr and Mrs N were concerned about the money being at risk theyd have 
been able to transfer the money to another account a few days later, if they wanted to do so.
Mr and Mrs N werent given clear information about what would happen with the 
overpayment fund. I dont know if theyd have acted differently if they had been. They might 
have decided not to proceed with the porting application. But I dont think they were caused 
any financial loss. While interest was applied to their account between September and 
December 2020, the £50 offered by Co-op covered this. And their capital repayments 
reduced the mortgage balance. Mr and Mrs N didnt lose the money that was transferred to 
their account with another bank.
I know Mr and Mrs N will be disappointed. But I think Co-op has done enough to put matters 
right. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require it to take further 
steps or pay further compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay £50 to Mr and Mrs N, if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman