DRN-4399907
The complaint
X complains The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc wont let them port their mortgages without 
paying early repayment charges.
X is represented by its two directors in bringing this complaint. Weve mainly been 
corresponding with one of them. Ill refer to him as Mr M.
What happened
X owns three properties that are subject to buy to let mortgages with The Mortgage Works 
(UK) Plc (TMW). Mr M was concerned about rising costs. He thought buying alternative 
properties would improve Xs financial situation.
In January 2023 Mr M had found buyers for two of Xs properties and approached TMW 
about porting the mortgages. TMW said Xs plans brought its property portfolio outside 
TMWs criteria for loan to value (LTV) and interest cover ratio (ICR). And they wouldnt agree 
to porting on that basis. Mr M felt TMW should agree to porting even if X failed to meet 
current lending criteria. And he thought TMW should waive any early repayment charges 
(ERC) X became liable to pay under the existing mortgages.
TMW didnt agree. They said, in summary:
A full lending assessment is always carried out where a porting application is made. 
That was clearly set out in the mortgage conditions. As a responsible lender TMW 
must make sure any changes to a customers borrowing are sustainable taking into 
account their current circumstances.
The porting applications X proposed didnt meet their current lending criteria relating 
to LTV and ICR.
They were willing to consider formal applications if X made them. They couldnt 
guarantee any application X made would be accepted. But, broadly, theyd consider 
whether they could make an exception for X subject to reviewing financial and 
portfolio information and carrying out valuations of the properties X proposed to buy.
If X decided to redeem the mortgages, the ERCs wouldnt be waived. They said 
ERCs werent arbitrary penalties TMW charged customers who wanted to redeem 
their mortgages early. They were a cost TMW incur when the wholesale funding 
market agreement they enter into to provide a fixed rate mortgage is ended early.
TMW considered the complaint Mr M made on Xs behalf. They didnt uphold it but 
apologised for mistakes theyd made in communications sent to Mr M and paid him some 
compensation.
Since Mr M was unhappy with TMWs response, he brought it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service on Xs behalf.
Our investigator came to the view TMW had acted fairly. He said the ERCs were payable 
under the terms and conditions of the mortgage, and it was reasonable for TMW to require 
them to be paid. Since Mr M didnt accept our investigators view, Xs complaint was passed 
to me to review afresh. I recently issued a provisional decision an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the impact the financial difficulties X has been experiencing is having on 
Mr M and his co-director. And I understand Mr Ms unhappy with the way in which he feels 
TMW have been treating X  and Mr M and his co-director as individuals - in relation to their 
property portfolio. But I am only looking here at Xs complaint about porting. So, I wont 
comment on the compensation TMW paid Mr M. Ive come to the same outcome as our 
investigator. Since my reasons are different in part, Im issuing a provisional decision to give 
the parties the chance to make further comments before I come to a final decision.
Broadly, porting involves transferring an existing fixed interest rate deal to a new mortgage 
on a new property. The existing mortgage is paid off and a new loan is made at the same 
rate as the redeemed mortgage for the remainder of the period of the fixed rate deal.
Its a common requirement for porting that the old mortgage is redeemed, and the new 
mortgage is taken out at the same time. Unless the new mortgage is for the same amount or 
more, an ERC, or part of it, is often payable. And if the old mortgage is redeemed, and no 
new mortgage is taken out, an ERC will usually be payable in full.
Porting will only be allowed if the application for the new mortgage is successful. And that 
will depend, amongst other things, on the applicant meeting lending criteria that exist at the 
time of the application and the new property being acceptable security for the loan.
The terms of Xs mortgages on the three properties were concerned with here reflect what 
Ive explained above. The mortgage offers said the mortgages were portable; that meant 
that if X was selling its existing property and buying a new one at the same time and TMW 
were able to offer a mortgage on the new property, X would be able to transfer the mortgage 
on the same terms without paying an ERC; if the amount of the new mortgage was less than 
the existing mortgage, an ERC would be payable on the difference in value between the old 
mortgage and the new one; and whether or not TMW could offer a new mortgage depended 
on the circumstances at the time.
The offers set things out in terms that I consider were clear, fair and not misleading in line 
with Financial Conduct Authority principles. Given that, and as directors of a property 
investment company, I think Mr M and his co-director ought reasonably to have understood 
the success of any porting application would depend on meeting TMWs lending criteria at 
the time of any application - and that an application wasnt guaranteed to succeed.
Lenders change their criteria from time to time depending on commercial considerations 
such as changes in the economic climate or their appetite for risk. Thats not unreasonable 
and we cant generally interfere with the criteria a lender may set. But wed expect a lender 
to give fair consideration to an individual customers application.
I think TMW gave fair consideration to Xs situation. TMW said that subject to X providing 
information and evidence, carrying out credit scoring and valuations, and X selling the 
existing properties and purchasing new ones at the same time, they would consider whether 
they could waive the ERCs. TMW invited Mr M to let them know how he wanted to proceed. Mr M responded and asked a number of questions. TMW explained again theyd formally 
consider any porting applications if they were made, and X complied with requests for 
information as part of any assessment they carried out. So, TMW gave X the chance to take 
things forward. Im not aware X went ahead with any applications.
Im aware Mr M thinks TMW should simply waive the ERCs. But I dont think its fair to ask 
them to do that. When a lender offers a fixed rate mortgage product, both the lender and 
borrower are tied into that rate for the term of the deal. Theres a cost to a lender in raising 
the funds to lend, which it recovers by charging interest on the loan. If interest rates rise 
while the deal is in place, the lender incurs a further cost since it cant raise the interest rate 
it is charging under the fixed rate deal. If the borrower repays the mortgage during the fixed 
rate period, the lender stops receiving interest each month, and theres a risk the lender 
wont recover its own costs of borrowing the funds to lend.
The ERC is there to cover the costs of a borrower paying the mortgage back early. It isnt 
meant to be a penalty to the borrower. We dont think ERCs are generally unfair. Since the 
ERCs were set out clearly in the mortgage offer, they were brought to Xs attention before 
the mortgages were completed, and TMW has made their position clear on waiving them, I 
dont think its unfair for TMW to decline to waive them in Xs case.
Overall, I think TMW provided X with a reasonable service in relation to the issues Im 
considering here. I cant see they caused any substantive delay or that they failed to explain 
their position clearly enough, for example. Mr M told them about offers received on two of 
the mortgaged properties and properties he wanted to port existing mortgages to in         
mid-January 2023. TMW told him quickly the proposals didnt meet their current criteria. 
Shortly afterwards they set out their position on porting and ERCs clearly and offered to 
consider things further subject to X providing more information. I think that was fair. 
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think TMW treated X unfairly. Whilst I understand Mr M 
will be disappointed, based on what I know so far and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
intend to uphold this complaint. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Developments
Mr M was unhappy with my provisional decision but made no substantive comments on it. 
TMW had no comments to make. So, Ill go on to give my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has made any comments, there is no new information for me to consider. 
So, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman