DRN-2969243
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC processed a chargeback claim he 
requested and with how information about chargeback claims is listed on Barclays website.
What happened
Mr P raised a chargeback claim with Barclays to recover money hed paid to a merchant 
which had subsequently ceased trading. Barclays declined to proceed with the chargeback 
claim because Mr P had raised it outside of the time limits necessary for the claim to be 
successful.
Mr P wasnt happy about this, and he felt that Barclays had followed a process and applied 
criteria that werent clearly explained on their website. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ps complaint, but they felt that theyd followed the correct process for 
a chargeback claim, so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Barclays had 
followed the correct process for a chargeback claim and that a fair outcome had been 
reached as a result. So, they also didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr P remained dissatisfied and emphasised that he felt that Barclays had followed a process 
and applied criteria not clearly explained on their website. So, the matter was escalated to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Ps problems and I can understand how upsetting it might have been 
for Mr P to have not been able to receive the full service that he paid for from the merchant.
In his correspondence with this service, Mr P has confirmed that he is unhappy that the 
information available on Barclays website about the chargeback process appears 
inconsistent with the actual process that Barclays have followed.
I can appreciate Mr Ps concerns in this regard, but this isnt an aspect of his complaint that I 
feel its within the remit of this service to consider. The reason I say this is because this 
service isnt a regulatory body and I consider that this aspect of Mr Ps complaint  relating 
as it does to the content of Barclays website  is better suited for consideration by a 
regulatory body, such as the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), given its nature.
The remit of this service is to assess whether a fair and reasonable outcome can be 
considered as having taken place, given the circumstances of the complaint. And in this 
instance the outcome was that Mr Ps chargeback request was declined by Barclays on the 
basis that it was raised outside of the time limits necessary for the chargeback request to be 
successful.
What this means is that the aspect of Mr Ps complaint I feel that this service can assess is 
whether a fair outcome can be considered as having occurred as a result of Barclays 
declining to proceed with Mr Ps chargeback request, which as mentioned, Barclays declined 
because it was made outside of the time limits necessary for the claim to be successful. 
I feel that its important to note here that Barclays declining to proceed with the chargeback 
claim for this reason would have been the case regardless of the nature of the content on 
Barclays website regarding such claims, and I say this because Mr P didnt become aware 
that he had a need to raise such a claim before the given time limit had expired.
Because of this I feel that the aspect of Mr Ps complaint as it relates to the content of 
Barclays website cant be considered as being directly linked to the outcome here - and 
should more appropriately be considered as being a regulatory complaint rather than one 
which it is within the remit of this service to assess. As such, I can only direct Mr P to pursue 
this aspect of his complaint by more appropriate means, and I have not considered this 
aspect of his complaint further.
With regard the chargeback claim itself, such a claim is a process by which some disputes 
are resolved between the card issuer - in this case Barclays - and merchants, under the 
relevant card scheme rules. 
 
These rules are set by the card provider, whose symbol is on the card. The card provider 
has an agreement with banks and building societies as to how its cards are used, and this 
agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made. The rules are quite strict, 
and Barclays doesn't have the power to change them. 
 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act, and this means that Barclays werent required to ask the card provider for the 
transaction to be reversed via the chargeback scheme, although it is considered good 
practice for them to do so, if they think the chargeback claim is likely to succeed. 
But in this case Barclays didnt think that the chargeback claim had a reasonable chance to 
succeed, and this was because it was being brought by Mr P over 540 days after the 
transaction to the merchant. And the chargeback rules as set by card provider state that 
claims cant be raised for a chargeback if this is the case.
Because of this I dont feel that Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining to 
proceed with the chargeback claim. And, as noted, while I appreciate Mr Ps concerns 
regarding the content of Barclays website, given that it would always have been the case the 
Mr P raised the chargeback claim outside of the 540 day window, I cant conclude that the 
content of Barclays website has had any bearing on whether the outcome here  Barclays 
declining to proceed with Mr Ps chargeback claim  was, or was not, fair.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr P wants here, but it follows from the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this 
time. I hope that Mr P can understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman