DRN-2534309
The complaint
Mr N complains about the valuation esure Insurance Limited placed on his car after a claim 
made on his motor insurance policy. He wants a higher valuation. 
What happened
Mr Ns car was damaged in an accident and esure declared it to be beyond economical 
repair. It made Mr N an offer in settlement of his claim which it said was the cars market 
value. Its offer was £5,991, less the policy excess. But Mr N remained unhappy as esure had 
made a deduction of £163 for pre-existing damage that Mr N said had occurred in the 
accident.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esure 
had valued Mr Ns car correctly using the motor trade guides according to our approach. He 
thought its offer was within the range of the valuations provided by the trade guides. 
Mr N asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr N feels frustrated by esures decision not to increase its valuation. I 
can understand that he wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. 
I think esure offered Mr N a settlement for the market value of his car, as defined in the 
policys terms and conditions:
Market value - The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected
to sell your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our
assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a
similar age, condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based
on research from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may
not be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought esures offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how he 
came to this conclusion. I can see that he checked the trade guides we use for cars of the 
same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Ns car. The valuations he found were 
similar to those found by esure. It had offered Mr N the average of the valuations. I can see 
that this falls within the range that our investigator found. So I think esures offer was fair and 
reasonable as it was made correctly according to our approach. And I dont require it to 
increase this. 
I can see that esures engineer looked at images of the car and thought that there was pre-
existing damage to the rear bumper that had been poorly repaired. Mr W said the damage to 
the rear bumper wasnt present before the accident. He said the car had been taken to three 
different places by esure and the damage could have occurred then.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about pre-
existing damage.
From the image Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for esures engineer to conclude that it 
was old damage and unrelated to the accident. esure invited Mr N to provide a photograph 
of the car at the accident scene that showed it without this damage. This would then show 
that the damage had occurred after recovery. I think that was fair and reasonable, but I cant 
see that Mr N has provided this, or any expert engineering evidence for esure to consider. 
So I think esure has justified its decision that the damage was pre-existing.
Our approach is that esure doesnt have to pay for repairs that were unrelated to the claim. 
In the case of total loss, we think that an insurer can deduct half the cost of repairing pre-
existing damage from the settlement. I can see that esure has done this, and at preferential 
rates. So I think its deduction of £163 from its settlement was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman