DRN-2584838
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Santander UK Plc will not refund the money she lost after paying for 
an item she did not receive. 
What happened
Miss H wanted to buy a particular style of designer handbag made by a luxury fashion brand.
Shes explained that she had been looking for the handbag on the second hand market for a 
long time and that she thought its retail price was around £800 to buy new. 
In January 2020, Miss H found a handbag advertised on a social media marketplace for 
£108 including postage. Miss H no longer has a copy of the advert she saw or the messages 
she exchanged with the seller but remembers the seller had uploaded photos and described 
the handbag as being genuine. Miss H recalls seeing pictures showing the inside and 
outside of the bag and its branding. Miss H says the handbag was used but looked in good 
condition overall and that she expected a pre-owned handbag to cost less than it would to 
buy new. Shes also explained that this style of bag in good condition usually sells for a lot 
more than the sellers price on auction websites. 
Miss H decided to buy the handbag. She explained that shes used the marketplace before 
as both a buyer and a seller and never had any problems. On 18 January 2020 Miss H 
transferred £108 from her Santander account to the bank details provided by the seller. 
As the seller lived a considerable distance away from Miss H, they agreed the seller would 
send the item in the post. 
When nothing arrived, Miss H contacted the seller. Initially they said they would post the 
handbag to her when they returned from a holiday. Miss H waited but nothing arrived. Then 
the seller said the item had been lost in the post but did not provide any tracking numbers to 
allow Miss H to follow this up any further. Miss H says the seller then said they would refund 
the money, but instead they blocked Miss H from making any further contact and 
disappeared from the social media website. 
When Miss H realised that she wasnt going to receive the bag or her money back, she 
contacted the bank for help. 
Santander contacted the receiving bank as soon as Miss H got in touch but was unable to 
recover any of the money shed sent. The banks system notes show it also considered 
whether it ought to refund Miss H for her loss. Santander is a signatory of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM or the CRM Code) and so 
considered its obligations under it. Santander turned down Miss Hs claim and said it was not 
responsible for the loss. 
Miss H was unhappy with the banks decision and raised a complaint. Santander issued its 
final response on 2 March 2020 and said it couldnt be held responsible because Miss H had 
willingly made the payment. Miss H asked us to review the banks position. 
When Santander submitted its complaint papers to us, it added that Miss H should have 
made more checks before making the payment. It said that it gave her guidance and advice 
specific to her reason for making the payment and Miss H did not take reasonable steps to 
protect herself. 
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. She said she couldnt fairly require Santander to refund Miss H. She didnt think 
Santander should have intervened to stop the payment from being made, or that the bank 
should have refunded Miss Hs loss under the CRM Code. 
She pointed out that genuine handbags from this particular brand normally sell for a 
considerably higher sum than Miss H paid, even second hand. She felt this should have 
indicated to Miss H that things might not be quite right. She added that there was nothing to 
show Miss H had taken any further steps to satisfy herself of the legitimacy of the seller or 
the item, which she thought she reasonably should have done in the circumstances. 
Miss H was disappointed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter afresh. She felt the bank could have supported her more, especially as 
shed been a good customer for many years. She explained that shes not working at the 
moment and the money is a lot for her to lose. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Santander should have reimbursed Miss H under the provisions of the CRM Code and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss H from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss H was tricked into making the payment. She thought she 
would receive a handbag in exchange for her money and the seller did not keep to their side 
of that bargain. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Miss H to receive a refund of the 
money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Miss H too.
The CRM Code
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances 
and it is for Santander to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*:
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
The customer has been grossly negligent
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
In this case, I think Santander has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse 
Miss H under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to 
reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies in the circumstances of this 
this case. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Santander has raised about 
the legitimacy of the transaction Miss H was making are enough to support its position that 
she failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payment she 
made. I dont think she had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine 
goods and the person she transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why. 
Miss H has told us as much as she can remember from the time, but she hasnt been able to 
provide copies of the advert or her conversations with the seller. I understand the seller 
blocked Miss H from making further contact. But this means Ive not been able to see exactly 
how the handbag was described or search for the sellers reviews and ratings.
Whilst I cant be sure of exactly how the seller presented themselves and the handbag at the 
time, from the evidence that is available for me to consider, I think Miss H should have had 
done more than she did to question the deal and to satisfy herself that it was legitimate 
before making the payment. 
Miss H has explained that she has been looking to purchase this style of handbag for a long 
time. She knew approximately how much a brand new handbag directly from the designer 
costs to buy and she knew how much a used handbag in good condition typically sells for on 
online auction websites, which she indicated is typically around three times the price she 
paid. 
I am aware that online marketplaces are an increasingly common way for private sellers to 
sell items they no longer want, use or need. Its possible that a private seller looking to make 
a quick sale might be more open to negotiate on the price or to sell an item for less than it 
might typically be worth. So I accept that people can and do find good deals online. 
But price can be one indicator that there is potentially something untoward about the seller 
or the proposed deal. From what Miss H has said, she knew or ought reasonably to have 
known that the sellers price was out of keeping with how much that style of handbag 
typically costs, even when second hand. I think she should have questioned in her own mind 
why the seller was prepared to let a valuable item go for such a low amount and made 
further enquiries to satisfy herself that there was nothing untoward about the situation. What Miss H wanted to buy was usually an expensive item from a prestige brand. Although 
Miss H had used the marketplace successfully before, she had not used this specific seller 
before and they lived almost 300 miles away from each other, which meant it was not 
feasible for Miss H to collect the item in person, increasing the level of potential risk involved. 
Miss H has pointed out that the seller had confirmed the bag was genuine. But I think it was 
highly questionable that Miss H would get a genuine handbag from this particular designer 
for the agreed price. Added to this, the seller lived a considerable distance away and was 
someone Miss H did not know and had not purchased from before. I think Miss H should 
have weighed it all up and questioned whether it was too good to be true and she ought to 
have recognised there was a risk associated with the purchase, i.e. that there was a 
possibility she wouldnt receive the bag or the bag might not be genuine. I think its more 
likely than not Miss H took a chance by going ahead with the purchase in the circumstances 
she did. But by doing so, I think she fell below the level of care excepted of her under the 
CRM Code.
Should Santander have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss H? 
Ive thought about whether Santander did enough to protect Miss H from financial harm. 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam.  
I am also mindful that when Miss H made this payment, Santander should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
Miss H was making an unremarkable payment  I dont think it stood out enough for 
Santander to have been concerned that she might have been at risk of financial harm from 
fraud at the time she made it. Once it was made aware of the scam, Santander acted quickly 
to try to cover the funds Miss H had sent, but none remained. Taking everything into 
account, I think Santanders actions in this particular case were appropriate and 
proportionate to a payment of £108
Overall
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss H and I can understand why she wants to do all 
that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. She sent her money in good faith and 
did not receive anything in return for it. But I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for the 
actions of a fraudster. I can only look at the banks position on Miss Hs fraud claim and its 
assessment under the CRM Code. 
For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied the bank has been able to establish it can 
choose not to refund Miss H under the CRM Code. Im also satisfied the bank processed 
Miss Hs payment correctly and it did all it could to help her once it knew what had 
happened. Im sorry to have to disappoint Miss H, but I cant fairly say Santander should 
have done more or that it should refund the money that she has lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman