DRN-4333789
The complaint
Mr C complains about One Insurance Limiteds (One Insurance) handling of his claim 
under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I wont go into detail but will 
summarise the key points. Mr C contacted One Insurance to report the theft of his car. A 
claim was registered for this but was later changed to a repair claim after Mr Cs car was 
recovered. Mr C complained to One Insurance about delays in the claims process and his 
car being returned to him without the repairs being fully completed. Mr C says he later 
decided to send his car to another garage to complete the repairs. One Insurance responded 
and agreed with Mr Cs complaint about their claims handling and delays. One Insurance 
upheld the complaint and offered £200 compensation.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. She upheld the complaint and recommended, in 
addition to the £200 already offered, One Insurance increase their offer by £100. She also 
recommended One Insurance reimburse Mr C for car hire charges which he paid. One 
Insurance havent responded so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. I think its important to add, I wont be commenting on every event during 
the claim, instead I have taken a broad approach to the overall service provided. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr C. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. One Insurance have admitted they got things wrong in their claims handling. 
Theyve said, following Mr Cs report, he informed them his car had been recovered - and a 
few days after this, the claim was authorised to continue. One Insurance accept they 
delayed in establishing if Mr Cs car had any damage, so no further action was taken to 
progress the claim. They say Mr C then confirmed the damages, but this wasnt raised with 
their repairs team. 
One Insurance say Mr C then reported a separate incident, and the original theft claim was 
put on hold when it shouldnt have been. The claim notes show Mr Cs car was then 
collected for repairs around two months after he reported the claim. The only issue I have to 
decide is whether One Insurances offer to put things right is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that One Insurance should compensate Mr C for the trouble, frustration and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level 
of compensation should be, Ive looked at the errors by One Insurance and what the impact 
of those errors have been. 
The claim notes show Mr C had to chase One Insurance a number of times to find out what 
was happening. Its clear Mr C was becoming frustrated at the length of time things were 
taking and he also raised a concern about long waiting times when contacting the customer 
services team for updates. The delays caused by One Insurance meant it took longer than it 
shouldve for the repairs to start to Mr Cs car. And there was further frustration caused to  
Mr C when, even after the claim started to progress, it was placed on hold in error. So, 
taking into account the impact of the delays on Mr C, I think the £200 offered by One 
Insurance is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I dont however believe this compensation goes far enough to reflect the full impact on Mr C. 
I say this because its clear Mr C had informed One Insurance about specific problems with 
his car  this included an issue with the handbrake and his car going into limp mode. Despite 
this, when Mr C went to collect his car after being informed the repairs were complete, there 
was still an issue with the handbrake and his car still went into limp mode. One Insurance 
then agreed for Mr Cs car to be returned to the garage for repairs. I cant say the repairs 
were therefore carried out to a satisfactory standard which caused Mr C frustration and 
inconvenience. Taking into account the impact of this on Mr C, I think One Insurance should 
pay an additional £100 compensation. 
I can see Mr C also incurred hire charges of £143.67 for the courtesy car. My C has provided 
an invoice  which has also been forwarded to One Insurance - which shows he was 
charged for eight days use of the courtesy car. And this was during the period Mr Cs claim 
wasnt being progressed by One Insurance. The information shows, for the period prior to 
this, One Insurance paid the charges for the courtesy car, so I think its fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances for One Insurance to reimburse Mr C the hire car charges he paid.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that One Insurance have made errors in their handling of Mr Cs claim. 
So, in addition to the £200 already offered, they should increase their offer by an additional 
£100 for the trouble, frustration and inconvenience caused  bringing the total compensation 
for this complaint to £300. One Insurance should also reimburse Mr C the car hire charges 
he paid in the sum of £143.67.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. One Insurance Limited must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman