DRN-4228536
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) provided poor service and 
damaged her car during a claim under her roadside recovery insurance policy. When I 
mention Astrenska I also mean its recovery agents and suppliers.
Mrs K is represented in her complaint, but for ease Ill refer to her throughout.
What happened
Mrs K had a roadside recovery insurance policy with Astrenska covering her car.
She was travelling in Europe in September 2022 when her car broke down.
Astrenska recovered her vehicle and returned it to the UK. It arrived back in November 2022.
When it was delivered back to Mrs Ks repairer in the UK, the keys werent present and no 
paperwork was with the car.
Mrs K complained and suggested that the police would need to be involved. The keys 
arrived in the post the following day.
The car also had damage to the bonnet that Mrs K said wasnt on the car before it was 
recovered. 
Astrenska upheld part of her complaint. It said its service delivering the car back to her 
wasnt good enough and it paid her £150 compensation. But it said it hadnt caused the 
damage to the bonnet.
Mrs K remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She asks that Astrenska 
pays for the damage to the bonnet to be repaired. She provided quotations for this and said 
it was likely to cost between about £1,000 and £1,700. She also found a picture of the car 
shortly before the breakdown happened.
Our investigator looked into her complaint and upheld it. She thought Astrenska should also 
pay an extra £100 compensation, plus the amount to get the damage fixed.
Mrs K accepted the view. Astrenska agreed it would pay £250 compensation in total, but it 
didnt agree it should pay for the repairs. It asked that the complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so its been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence, Im upholding Mrs Ks complaint. 
I can see that both Astrenska and Mrs K have accepted the increased compensation of £250 
for her distress and inconvenience, so it seems to me what remains is for me to consider the 
damage to the car.
I can see from the file that the recovery of Mrs Ks car from Europe was a lengthy process, 
involving different recovery companies and repairers. All of these were working on 
Astrenskas behalf in providing the service to repatriate Mrs Ks car to her.
Mrs K bought her car shortly before her trip overseas. Shes been able to provide one photo 
of her car which is dated two weeks before the breakdown and I can see that there doesnt 
seem to be a dent in the location under scrutiny.
She has also sent photos of the damage taken at the repairer in the UK it was taken to 
following recovery, and I can see theres a dent and scratches in the bonnet. The colour of 
the car make it quite difficult to make out the damage clearly, but Mrs K has also recently. 
supplied a video making it much more obvious.
Its Astrenskas position that the damage was pre-existing in some way. It doesnt think it 
caused it. 
In later correspondence Astrenska points out that it had a signed document stating that there 
was no damage on that area of the car when it was recovered back to Mrs Ks garage. Mrs K 
has refuted this, providing evidence that the signed document showed a different signature 
to hers. 
Ive looked closely at this document. There is a section where damaged areas can be 
indicated on a diagram and I can see that it shows no damage to the bonnet. Other areas of 
damage on the car are clearly marked. 
The document also has photos attached, which show the areas of damage marked on the 
diagram Ive just mentioned. I think its important that I say the photos on the document 
seem to have been taken at two different places. The existing damage photos are with the 
car on a recovery trailer; and the one showing the dent seems to be in a holding area.
It has one photo of the relevant area of the bonnet which seems to have be taken in the 
holding areas and I can see theres an area that seems to be dented, with a line leading 
upwards towards the windscreen from it. 
In its final response to Mrs K, Astrenska said:
I find no demonstrable fault with the actions taken by our agent on the occasion of 
your vehicles recovery, which appear to have been in line with standard industry 
operating procedures and best practice throughout.
I can see our investigator asked for similar photos taken in Europe by Astrenskas recovery 
partners, but none were available. Id have thought best practice would mean that photos 
were taken at every stage of the process for situations similar to this one.
Taking everything into account, on the evidence I have I think its reasonable I say that the 
damage to the bonnet happened while it was in Astrenskas care. 
So I think the fair and reasonable thing is that Astrenska pays for the repairs to be carried 
out. Id ask that the parties now liaise to make this happen in an appropriate way.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay 
Mrs K:
£250 compensation for her distress and inconvenience, and
For the repairs to her bonnet.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman