DRN-1223974
 
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy about the interest rate charged by Evolution Lending Limited on his secured 
loan. He believes that the interest rate he was told would apply to his loan at the time of the 
application was lower than the current interest rate. Mr D wants the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to review his mortgage paperwork to ensure that it is fair, accurate and complies 
with mortgage regulation.
What happened
In December 2016 Mr D applied for a loan with Evolution. He borrowed £7,000 over a period 
of 15 years. The loan was secured as a second charge mortgage over Mr Ds property. At 
section 4 of the mortgage offer dated 4 January 2017 the interest rate is explained. 
This says that the Annual Percentage Rate of Charge (APRC) is the total cost of the loan 
expressed as an annual percentage. The APRC is 32.83% and comprises a variable applied 
rate of 26.82% in addition to costs totalling £1,260, plus any additional costs.  The mortgage 
offer says that the APRC is calculated on the assumption that the current applied interest 
rate of 26.82% will not change; if it does, the actual APRC could be different from that 
quoted in the offer.
In July 2019 Mr D complained to Evolution about the interest rate. Mr D said that he hadnt 
been made aware that the APRC was 32.83% and believed he was being overcharged. In 
addition, Mr D was unhappy about the conduct of a member of Evolutions staff, for which he 
wanted compensation of £50.
Evolution explained that the APRC was set out in the mortgage documentation and so didnt 
agree with Mr D that he hadnt been made aware of this. After reviewing the telephone call 
with the member of staff, Evolution agreed that it could have been handled better and 
apologised. Evolution though that was sufficient and didnt offer any monetary 
compensation.
Mr D wasnt happy with Evolutions response. He said that the interest rate had increased 
and Evolution had failed to inform him of this. Mr D questioned whether Evolutions 
documentation was in line with regulatory requirements.
Evolution disagreed with Mr D that the interest rate had changed without his knowledge, and 
confirmed that its documentation was in line with regulatory requirements.
Dissatisfied with Evolutions response, Mr D complained to us. An investigator looked at the 
complaint. She was satisfied that interest had been changed on the loan at the rate shown in 
the loan agreement  26.823%. She also explained to Mr D that the APRC was set out in the 
loan documentation. 
As far as Mr Ds complaint about the staff member at Evolution, the investigator explained 
that it hadnt been possible to locate the call. Mr D has asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He wants to know whether hes 
been treated fairly by Evolution and to ensure that its documentation is in order.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator. Its not our 
role to determine whether Evolution has complied with its regulatory obligations. Thats the 
role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
But Ive looked at the documentation provided by Evolution at the time the mortgage was 
taken out, as well as the annual statements. These are in the format prescribed by the FCA, 
containing all the information Evolution is required to provide to Mr D about the loan, 
including the interest rate applied, and the APRC.
The APRC is the rate of interest which reflects the total amount of interest that will be paid 
over the complete period of the loan, including any costs the borrower is required to pay.  Im 
satisfied that the APRC is clearly set out in the documents provided to Mr D before he took 
out the mortgage. Im also satisfied that the interest rate of 26.92% is set out clearly too.
Ive reviewed the annual statements and Im satisfied that the interest has been applied in 
line with the interest rate set out in the mortgage offer  at 26.82%. This has not changed 
since Mr D took out the mortgage.
I hope that I have given Mr D the reassurance he is seeking that Evolution has not increased 
the interest rate without his knowledge, and that the documents he has been provided 
contain all the information Evolution is required to provide.
Im sorry Mr D was upset with Evolutions customer service when he spoke to a member of 
staff in July 2019. I note Evolution has apologised to Mr D for any trouble and upset he may 
have been caused. I dont intend to order Evolution to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020. 
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman