DRN-3737300
The complaint
Ms H, Mr T, and Miss T complain that HDI Global Specialty SE caused delays in dealing with 
a claim under their landlord insurance policy, and subsequently declined cover. 
Where I refer to HDI, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
For ease of reading, Ill mainly refer to Miss T as she brought the complaint to our service.
What happened
Ms H, Mr T, and Miss T own a property which they let out. In late 2021, there was a leak 
which caused damage to the flat below. They received a letter from the neighbour asking for 
payment of £860 for the repairs. 
On 2 December 2021, Miss T submitted a claim to HDI under the public liability section of 
the landlord insurance policy. She followed up with further information on 6 and 14 
December, as well as chasing a response to her claim on 20 December. 
Meanwhile, on 6 December 2021, the neighbour sent a letter before action stating theyd 
sought advice from a legal firm and would be issuing proceedings in the small claims court if 
payment is not received by 21 December 2021. 
As Miss T hadnt received a response from HDI and she was concerned about being sued, 
she spoke to the building management company for advice. They informed her that as the 
leak was coming from her property, she was liable for the damage and that the neighbour 
didnt have to wait for Miss Ts insurer to respond before taking legal action. So Miss T paid 
the neighbour for the repairs. 
Due to an error on HDIs systems, Miss Ts emails werent attached to her file until 29 
December 2021. HDI contacted the neighbour on 7 January 2022 and let Miss T know. By 
this time, Miss T had already settled the claim and she informed HDI it was too late. She 
asked it to reimburse her the £860. 
HDI declined the claim. It said that by paying the neighbour, Miss T had accepted liability 
and prejudiced its position. If she hadnt, HDI say it wouldve defended the claim against the 
neighbour on the basis that Miss T was unaware of the leak as it was hidden, so no 
negligence had taken place. 
Miss T brought a complaint to our service, which our Investigator upheld. He said Miss T had 
taken appropriate steps to mitigate the loss when HDI failed to respond to her. He said HDI 
should pay the claim. 
Whilst Miss T accepted this outcome, HDI didnt. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
Looking at the timeline set out above, Im not persuaded that HDI dealt with the claim 
promptly  particularly given the threat of legal action. HDI acknowledges that this was down 
to an error with its systems for which it is responsible.
But HDI rely on the following policy condition:
In respect of any claim against You, We will not make any payment if You make any 
admission of liability, payment, offer of settlement or incur any costs or expenses 
without Our prior written agreement.
Ive thought about whether this is fair, but Im not persuaded that it is. I say this because 
Miss T hadnt received any response to her claim - despite chasing - and there was no 
indication when she would hear back, if at all. With the threat of legal action, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for her to take alternative steps outside of her insurance policy to resolve 
the claim. She sought advice from an industry expert and mitigated her losses by paying the 
repairs.
HDI say it wouldve defended the claim against the neighbour, meaning neither it nor Miss T 
wouldve needed to pay the neighbour. But I havent seen any legal advice to support that a 
defence on HDIs proposed basis wouldve been more likely than not to succeed. And if it 
didnt, HDI wouldve been responsible for both sides legal costs as well as the repairs. 
From the information Ive seen, Im not satisfied that HDI dealt with this claim promptly and 
fairly. And its provided insufficient evidence to show that its position has been prejudiced 
from Miss Ts actions. For these reasons, Im upholding the complaint and directing HDI to 
reimburse the cost of repairs plus 8% simple interest. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct HDI Global Specialty SE to pay Ms H, Mr T, and Miss T 
the sum of £860 plus 8% simple interest per annum* from the date Miss T paid the 
neighbour until the date this settlement is paid.
*If HDI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms H, Mr T, and Miss T how much its taken off. It should also give 
them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H, Mr T and 
Miss T to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman