DRN-3794575
The complaint
Mr N complains about two investments he made in 2017 with Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium). He says he was mis-sold the investments as he was led to believe 
they were secure. He also said the investments were too risky for him.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr N invested in the following B&G Plc bonds:
July 2017 - £55,000  4 Year Compounding High-Yield Bond
September 2017 - £15,470  3 Year Fixed Monthly IFISA Bond
Sales of this bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business 
from Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for 
investments in the bond, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for 
advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss 
the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium. B&G Plc and BG Ltd 
were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Ns investment in the bonds
Mr N found out about the bonds when he did a search on the internet as he was looking for a 
better interest rate for his savings. He was contacted by a representative of BG Ltd and he 
then made his application. He said he had little investment experience and wanted 
somewhere to deposit savings to earn more interest. He was looking for an investment with 
low risk.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr N 
has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
Given the evidence available and Mr Ns testimony, were satisfied he made the application 
online and I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These 
show the application journey that Mr N underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to 
meet the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mr N 
was categorised as an everyday investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Ns complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ns complaint. It said Mr N had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions once Mr Ns 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ns complaint and concluded it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr N as a 
restricted investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds 
for him - was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with 
the FCAs rules.
The website and marketing material was misleading
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory 
obligations. Had it done so, Mr N wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd 
should have concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr N to invest. For these 
reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint 
and for Gallium to compensate Mr N for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
The website and marketing material was not misleading - Mr N was given sufficient 
information and risk warnings. 
Regardless of label, Mr N was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair nor reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr N giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration.  
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations, were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 
10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr N into certifying himself as 
belonging in a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by 
changing the term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the 
category as being one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr N fairly 
or acting in his best interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr 
N, it is unlikely he would have certified himself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not 
meet the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been 
apparent the bonds were not appropriate investments for Mr N. In the 
circumstances Mr N would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and 
reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bonds to 
Mr N.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Ns complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr N would either not have proceeded to make the 
investments or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so, I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr N for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr N 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not made the investments.I take the view that Mr N would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr N's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr N fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr N's investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation 
payable.
Pay to Mr N £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused by losing the 
capital invested. This capital was earmarked for retirement.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G 4 Year 
Compounding 
High-Yield BondStill exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
B&G 3 Year 
Fixed Monthly 
IFISA BondStill exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr N agrees to Gallium taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr N that he repays to Gallium any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr N wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr N's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr N would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr N in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman