Complaint
This complaint is about two regular premium payment protection insurance policies. 
Mr and Mrs O say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them both policies.
They say the policies were added without their knowledge and that they didnt want or  need 
them. 
Background
In around  September 2000 Mr and Mrs O took out a joint mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy which protected their mortgage repayments in the event of one or 
both of them becoming unable to work or losing their job. The cost of this policy was around 
£19 per month and could have paid £315 per month in the event of a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs O kept this cover until November 2001 when they changed it to a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP). The TMPP was a standalone policy which was more expensive  it 
cost £24.38 per month - but offered a wider range of benefits. As well as providing mortgage 
protection like the policy above, the TMPP also provided life insurance and critical illness 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Os mortgage account with Halifax was closed completely in June 2005.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld but Mr and Mrs O 
disagreed and its been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs O have told us about the sale which is of course helpful. But 
as with any complaint Ive also borne in mind the possibility that recollections, however 
genuine, are likely to be affected by time. Similarly, some of the documentation from both 
sales that I would have liked to see is no longer available. Because of this, my decision is 
based on the balance of probabilities  i.e. whats more likely to have happened, based on 
DRN-1732009what Ive seen and what the parties have told me. Ive also used what I know about Halifaxs 
procedures and how it sold these types of policy. 
Mr and Mrs O told us that they bought both policies in meetings. And Halifax has confirmed 
that it made a recommendation that they take out the cover in both instances. That means 
Halifax needed to ensure the policies were suitable for their situation. Halifax also needed to 
provide enough clear information so Mr and Mrs O could make an informed choice as to 
whether they should buy the policies. 
For the first sale, Ive seen quotation for the first policy that includes the MPPI. Ive also seen 
that on their mortgage application form Mr and Mrs O signed the section of the form dealing 
with PPI to show that they were interested, alongside wording saying Yes, I would like to 
take advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance. Ive also seen a copy of the MPPI 
application form, which contains details about their eligibility and the policy benefits, again 
signed by Mr and Mrs O.
For the second sale, Ive seen evidence taken from Halifaxs computer system to show that 
the policy was discussed with Mr and Mrs O and that they were asked questions to check 
that they were eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main 
policy exclusions. 
Taken together, this information and evidence is enough for me to me think that Mr and Mrs 
O had made the decision to go ahead and take out each of these policies and that on each 
occasion they had some level of discussion with the Halifax representative. In addition, its 
likely that Mr and Mrs O would have had to authorise the monthly premiums to be drawn 
from a bank account by way of a direct debit or similar method. So I think it follows this that 
Mr and Mrs O were most likely given a choice about whether to take out MPPI in each sale.
Next, Ive looked at the question of whether the policies were suitable for Mr and Mrs O. As 
Ive already said, Mr and Mrs O had confirmed they were eligible for the cover on the MPPI 
application form for the first sale. And I havent seen anything to suggest they would have 
been affected by any of the main policy exclusions. For the second sale, Ive commented 
above on the evidence of eligibility and not being affected by exclusions. 
Ive also not seen anything to suggest that the monthly cost of the cover was unaffordable 
for them and I think the monthly premiums - given the type / number of protections each 
policy offered - were comparable with similar products marketed at around the time they 
were sold.
Mr and Mrs O told us about their employer benefits, being 6 months at full pay followed by 6 
months at half pay. But this doesnt necessarily mean the policies werent of use to 
them. Each of these policies would have paid out for up to 24 months in the event of a 
successful claim. And in the event that one or both of them had to make a claim, having the 
policy would have meant they most probably wouldnt have to dig into their existing savings. 
I think each mortgage would have been a significant financial commitment over an extended 
period. Policies like this are designed to offer protection in financially difficult times and they 
would have provided Mr and Mrs O with cover over and above any other protection they had 
elsewhere. So, given their situation, I think the concept of protecting themselves  with cover 
like this could be viewed as a worthwhile and sensible precaution.
I also think its likely that for each sale they would have been given a policy document which 
explained details of the cover and how to claim. And even if I cant be sure that everything 
happened in the way it should have done, from what Ive seen Mr and Mrs O agreed to take 
out these policies and each of them was suitable to their situation. Id also like to reassure Mr and Mrs Os that Ive taken into account their response to our 
adjudicators findings. Whilst I realise how frustrated they must feel by not getting the 
outcome they were hoping for, I am simply unable to make a finding that either of these 
polices were mis-sold. I am sorry to have to disappoint them on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. And I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman