DRN-4281502
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect him from fraud. 
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief. 
Mr K received a letter from a debt collection agency in relation to a debt of circa £1,000 it 
said he held with Monzo. Mr K contacted Monzo to say hed never held a Monzo account 
and that the debt related to a fraudulent application. He wanted to know how Monzo had 
allowed this to happen and for the debt to be cancelled. Mr K also wanted assurances from 
Monzo that this wouldnt happen again. Monzo didnt respond to Mr Ks concerns and so he 
made a complaint.
Monzo partially upheld Mr Ks complaint. It said it had carried out the required identity 
checks when it received the application to open the account and didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. Monzo took action to remove the debt from Mr Ks records, stop recovery 
action, and deactivate the fraudulent account. 
In terms of customer service, Monzo said whilst it took the necessary action as soon as it 
was notified of the fraud, it accepted it had taken too long to respond to Mr Ks concerns. 
Monzo apologised to Mr K and offered him £100 compensation. 
Mr K referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. One of our Investigators 
considered the complaint and partially upheld it. She said Monzo had no reason to question 
the validity of the application as all identity checks were completed successfully. And Monzo 
couldnt provide any information to Mr K on how the fraud occurred. But she didnt think 
Monzos offer of compensation for its poor customer service was fair. She recommended an 
increased offer of £150. 
Monzo accepted our Investigators opinion. Mr K didnt agree. He said if Monzo had no 
reason to believe the application wasnt genuine  then there must be something wrong with 
its identification verification process. Mr K said this is a systemic failing by Monzo that the 
Financial Ombudsman should be concerned about. Mr K also thought Monzo hadnt offered 
him enough protection or advice to help him avoid further fraudulent activity. 
Mr K accepted the £150 compensation but didnt think it would act as enough of an incentive 
for Monzo to invest in better fraud prevention systems. Mr K said Monzo should pay for his 
subscription to CIFAS because it had allowed the fraud to take place.  
Mr K also said he was still receiving letters from the debt collection agency.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr K and Id like to assure him I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided and Id like to assure 
Mr K that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but Ive 
focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr Ks strength of feeling  and I dont underestimate the impact the identity 
theft fraud has had on him. He had the worry of his identity being stolen, and the situation 
was then made worse because of Monzos accepted poor handling of the fraud claim. This 
failing by Monzo undoubtedly added to Mr Ks distress and caused him a level of 
inconvenience. But as I go on to explain, I think Monzo has done enough to rectify that. 
Mr K thinks Monzo shouldve done more to prevent the identity fraud. In particular, hes 
questioned the robustness of Monzos identification verification processes given it didnt 
recognise the person opening the account wasnt him. I can understand Mr Ks concerns, but 
my role here isnt to consider the robustness of Monzos fraud detection systems as a whole 
- I only need to decide whether Monzo did anything wrong when it opened the account in 
Mr Ks name. 
Monzo was presented with official ID in the form of a passport as well as a selfie video. 
Based on these checks Monzo was satisfied the application was genuine. Ive no reason to 
question Monzos position here, nor do I have any basis to say it did anything wrong in 
accepting the application. And so, I cant say any failing by Monzo allowed the fraud to take 
place. 
Having said that, Id still expect Monzo to have taken appropriate action as soon as Mr K 
made it aware of the fraudulent activity. Monzo froze the account and recalled the debt from 
the debt collection agency, as well as requesting the removal of all traces of the account and 
associated debt from Mr Ks credit file. 
Mr K thinks Monzo shouldve done more to protect him for further fraud  making specific 
reference to registering a CIFAS marker. I can understand Mr Ks point, but Im satisfied 
Monzo took the action Id expect it to in the circumstances  froze the account and cancel 
the debt.
As a result, Im satisfied Monzo took appropriate and reasonable steps to protect Mr K once 
it became aware of the fraudulent account. But I dont think its fair to put the onus on Monzo 
to have provided advice to Mr K on how to prevent more fraudulent activity occurring 
because of the identity theft. And because Im satisfied by the checks Monzo carried out 
when it opened the account, I dont think I can reasonably expect it to pay for any of the 
costs Mr K incurs from a subscription to CIFAS.  
Looking now at the impact of Monzos poor customer service, I should firstly add that its not 
my role to punish a business for its shortcomings. And so, when considering what a 
business should do to put things right, I look at the direct impact those shortcomings have 
had on a customer. In Mr Ks case, the initial distress and upset was caused by the 
fraudsters, not Monzo. I accept Monzos poor customer service once alerted to the fraud 
exacerbated this, but being the victim of fraud is, in itself, an upsetting experience.
As Ive outlined above, Im not persuaded Monzo couldve prevented the fraudulent activity. 
It accepts things went wrong after that point, has apologised, and agreed to increase its 
payment to Mr K from £100 to £150 for the distress and inconvenience its poor service 
caused him.In taking all of this into account, I consider the £150 Monzo has agreed to pay Mr K to be a 
fair and reasonable level of compensation and in line with what Id have awarded had Monzo 
not agreed to this increased offer. 
Its unfortunate Mr K continued to receive letters from the debt collection agency. This might 
have been because it took a period of time for the debt to be recalled and for the recovery 
attempts to stop. Mr K has told us hes working abroad and so is unsure if these letters are 
still being sent. If this is the case, then Mr K should contact Monzo and it should take 
immediate action to rectify the situation. 
Putting things right
I dont believe it fair or reasonable to hold Monzo responsible for the fraudulent account and 
the subsequent impact that had on Mr K. That ultimately lies with the fraudsters who stole 
Mr Ks identity. Monzo should however ensure Mr K isnt still receiving letters about the debt.
Monzo did add to Mr Ks frustration and concern by not providing the level of service he had 
a right to expect. Its apologised to Mr K and agreed to compensate him. I think this is a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint is upheld in part. Monzo Bank Ltd should:
Pay Mr K £150 - if its not already done so. 
Take immediate action to stop recovery letters being sent to Mr K  if that is still the 
case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman