DRN-3777960
The complaint
Mr G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) broke his heating system when it 
worked on his boiler, and then refused to refund the costs of the repairs.
What happened
Mr G had boiler cover with BG for his rental property. The policy provided cover for the boiler 
and controls, an annual boiler service, and a gas safety certificate.
He claimed under the policy after experiencing problems with the water pressure for his 
heating system. BG visited Mr Gs property and concluded that the boiler was irreparably 
damaged. It advised Mr G to instal a new boiler.
However, Mr G experienced further water pressure problems after the boiler was installed. 
Because BG couldnt provide an appointment soon enough, Mr G arranged for a third-party 
engineer to check the heating system and pipes. BG said it would refund the costs of the 
engineer and repairs.
Mr G had his pipework replaced, fixing the problem with the water pressure and costing 
£9,000. But BG refused to settle the invoice, explaining it was chargeable work not covered 
under the policy. Mr G complained because BG had clearly told him it would cover the cost, 
and he believed BG had caused the pipes to leak by overfilling the system with water.
BG looked into Mr Gs complaint, but it didnt agree it had caused any damage. It accepted 
that it had not explained properly what charges it would refund to Mr G, and in light of that it 
offered him £470 which is what it wouldve cost BG for the leak detection. Mr G declined 
BGs offer and brought his complaint to this service. He said it was responsible for the full 
cost of his replacement boiler and new pipework.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. He said BG was only responsible for the 
boiler cover, and there was no evidence it had done anything to cause damage to the 
heating system. Our investigator acknowledged that BG made a mistake by telling Mr G it 
would refund the costs for his heating system work, but he thought its offer of £470 as a 
gesture of goodwill was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr G didnt agree. He said BG broke his boiler and pipes so it should pay for the full cost of 
repairs and the new boiler. Mr G said the matter had nothing to do with what was covered 
under his insurance policy because BG caused the problems.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain.
My role here is to decide whether BG did what it shouldve done when Mr G first reported a 
problem with the water pressure. Then, Id need to consider whether BG caused the further 
problems Mr G experienced.
Boiler
BG inspected Mr Gs boiler and diagnosed the pressure problem was likely a fault with the 
expansion vessel. However, it explained that to get to the vessel, BG wouldve needed to 
remove the boiler and in doing so a part needed to fix it wouldve needed replacing. That 
part was obsolete, so BG recommended that the best course of action would be to replace 
the boiler.
Mr G said there was nothing wrong with the boiler
Ive looked at the engineers records of checks carried out, and the job sheet left for Mr G on 
the day. The records show BG carried out tests to determine the boiler fault, and both sets of 
evidence are consistent in the recommendations for a fix. In the absence of contradictory 
evidence, I see no reason to doubt the accuracy of the reports. Therefore, I cant say BG 
was wrong to recommend a new boiler.
Leak detection
Mr G had a new boiler installed, but he continued to experience problems. The evidence 
indicates he asked BG to complete a one-off job to identify the source of the problem, but he 
didnt think the appointment offered was soon enough. Mr G used a private engineer and BG 
said it would cover the cost.
However, BG said it wouldnt cover the cost of repairs Mr G went ahead with. BG confirmed 
it was wrong to say it would cover the costs but, even so, it was unreasonable for Mr G to 
have new pipes and an overall upgrade to the heating system, while expecting BG to pay for 
it. 
Ive thought carefully about this issue and Im persuaded by BGs comments. Thats because 
Mr Gs policy doesnt provide cover for the work he had done, so it would be unreasonable to 
think BG intended to cover the cost of an upgraded system. While BG made a mistake in 
saying it would cover the cost of an engineer completing the leak detection, it offered to pay 
£470 which is what it wouldve cost using its own engineers.
I wouldnt expect BG to pay for the work just because it made a mistake, so I think its offer to 
pay £470 was fair, and generous in the circumstances. I wont be asking BG to pay any 
more. For clarity, BG confirmed the offer is still available to Mr G should he wish to accept it.
Cause of leak
Mr G said BG caused the leak which is why he thinks it should pay for all of the subsequent 
work. In other words, if BG hadnt broken his boiler and caused the leaking pipes, he 
wouldnt have incurred the costs he did.
I understand the logic Mr G applied here, but I dont agree. Theres no evidence to show that 
BG caused the leaks, or that it did anything wrong in respect of the boiler replacement. The 
evidence confirms that the boiler would simply have been swapped out, and no additional 
checks wouldve been carried out on the pipes. Ive looked at the record of the work carried 
out and I havent seen anything to suggest BG did something when replacing the boiler that wouldve caused such significant pressure that the pipes would break. I see no reason to ask 
BG to do any more here.
Policy
I understand why Mr G thinks BG should pay his costs for the new boiler and pipework, 
regardless of what is set out in the policy. He says BG broke his boiler and caused the leaks, 
so he doesnt see why he should be held to the terms of cover. If Id found that BG did 
something wrong, then Id have likely agreed with Mr G and considered BG liable for at least 
some of the costs. But I havent found any wrongdoing on BGs part that would warrant 
anything more than its existing offer to pay for the leak detection based on its own rates.
Overall, in an unfortunate set of circumstances, Mr G found himself paying for a heating 
system upgrade, including a new boiler. But the evidence available to me doesnt show that 
BG was responsible for any repair costs under the policy, or that it caused further problems 
which caused Mr G to incur costs. Therefore, I wont be asking BG to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman