DRN-3979730
The complaint
Mr B complains that Oplo PL Limited wont refund to him the money that he and his wife paid 
for some holiday club membership credits using a loan from a finance provider. Hes being 
represented in his complaint by a legal adviser.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2023 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
Mr B and his wife entered into a membership application agreement to buy some 
holiday club membership credits in August 2018. The purchase price for the credits 
was £18,360 and Mr B also entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with a finance 
provider for a loan of £18,360. Mr B agreed to make 179 monthly payments of 
£187.42 and a final payment of £187.61 to the finance provider.
Mr Bs representative complained to the finance provider in July 2020 that the 
membership credits had been misrepresented to Mr B and his wife, that there had 
been a breach of contract and that the lending had been irresponsible. Claims were 
made under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and Mr Bs 
representative provided documents including the particulars of the complaint and a 
witness statement from Mr B.
The finance provider didnt uphold the complaint. It said that a welcome call was 
made to Mr B in September 2018 in which affordability was discussed, that the cost 
of the purchase was well within his means, that he wasnt aware of any future 
circumstances which may affect his ability to repay the loan and that he was aware of 
the consequences of non-payment of the loan. It said that Mr B had said that he 
wasnt pressured or incentivised to proceed with the purchase, he was made aware 
of the 14 day cooling off period and he rated the holiday companys service as five 
out of five. It said that the management company had gone into liquidation but it had 
been replaced by another management company which was able to fully service 
Mr Bs contract and his membership.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with its response so a complaint was made to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that a 
significant reason that Mr B went ahead with the purchase was because he was led 
to believe he would be able to sell back his membership and get back at least what 
he paid upon resale. He also thought that the holiday company misrepresented the 
membership credits to Mr B as something that he would receive a return on, and a 
product with a residual value that would be highly sought after by prospective buyers. 
He recommended that the finance provider should: cancel the loan and refund all 
loan payments made (with interest); refund maintenance fees paid for every year that 
Mr B didnt make use of the membership or receive payment for non-usage (with 
interest); remove any adverse credit entries relating to the agreement; and arrange 
for the membership to be surrendered.
The finance provider has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It has provided an explanation of how the holiday club membership 
credits work and it says that Mr B complained during the government imposed 
restrictions in response to the pandemic and its not aware of any dissatisfaction 
being expressed or any attempt made to sell his credits before then. It also says that 
a key element of his complaint is that the product was mis-sold due to the liquidation 
of the management company  but Mr B has kept all his rights and another 
management company continues to offer a full service for members. It says that its 
clear that the documents show that the credits cant be sold for at least five years. It 
has referred to the welcome call and a compliance video recorded when Mr B and his 
wife were signing the agreements.
Mr Bs loan has now been transferred to Oplo and it has assumed the finance 
providers obligations under the loan agreement.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows:
Mr Bs representative complained to the finance provider under sections 75 and 
140A and about its irresponsible lending. It said that Mr B and his wife were told that:
they would be investing in their holidays by securing future holidays that 
would be significantly cheaper than would be available on the open market;
there was a ready re-sale market for their membership credits so Mr B would 
be able to sell them and that there were good prospects of them increasing in 
value;
the offer was only available for a very limited time and that if they didnt 
purchase the offer would no longer be available; and
the resorts were exclusive to club members and werent open to the public.
Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or 
services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier (provided that certain criteria set out in that section 
are met). Section 140A gives a court the power, amongst other things, to require a 
creditor to repay any sum paid by the debtor under a credit agreement if it 
determines that theres an unfair relationship between the debtor and the creditor. Im 
not determining the outcome of Mr Bs claims under sections 75 and 140A as only a 
court would be able to do that but Im considering whether or not the finance 
providers response to his claims was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr B and his wife signed the membership application agreement in August 2018. 
They also signed other documents including the terms and conditions, a standard 
information form, an exchange contract and an initial disclosure document. Mr B also 
signed the loan agreement. The finance provider has provided a recording of the 
welcome call that was made to Mr B in September 2018. Ive listened to that call and 
Mr B acknowledges that his loan account has gone live, the first payment of £187.52 
would be made later that month, the APR was 9.5%, the repayments were 
affordable, his only concern was about what would happen to the credits when he 
died, his minimum annual income was £25,000 and his wifes income was more than 
£20,000, he was made aware of the cooling-off period and wasnt pressurised into 
making the purchase. He also said that hed give the holiday company five out of five 
for its service and his recommendation to other customers would also be five out of 
five.
The finance provider has also provided a video that was recorded when Mr B and his wife were signing the agreements. Ive watched that video and although the audio on 
it is of poor quality, Ive seen nothing on that video to indicate that Mr B and his wife 
werent happy to enter into the agreements or that they were pressurised into signing 
them.
Mr B has provided a detailed witness statement in which he describes the way that 
the credits were sold to him and his wife and the misrepresentations that he says 
were made to them. Their representative has also provided evidence from other 
purchasers of memberships about the way that the sales were made to them but 
theres no other evidence to show that the holiday company misrepresented the 
credits to Mr B and his wife.
The terms and conditions say: Any representation or promise made before or at the 
time the Purchaser signs this Agreement that is not Included on this document or any 
related continuation sheets must be added in writing on the face of the Agreement 
and signed by the Purchaser and the Vendor. It is therefore agreed that no terms or 
representations, written or oral, shall apply to this Agreement other than those 
contained herein and overleaf.
If the holiday company had given Mr B and his wife information on which they were 
relying, I consider it to be reasonable to expect that they would have checked that 
that information was contained in the agreements  and if it wasnt to either have 
asked for it to be added or not to have signed the agreements. Ive seen no evidence 
to show that Mr B or his wife asked for any information or representations to be 
added to the agreement.
The standard information form says: The resale facility for [credits] for new members 
will  be available five years following the start of Membership. Ive seen no 
reference in the membership application agreement or the other documents that Mr B 
and his wife signed to the membership being an investment or likely to increase in 
value. They had agreed that the resale facility would be available five years after the 
start of their membership  so in about August 2023 - so I dont consider it to be likely 
that they wouldve been told that there was a ready re-sale market for their 
membership credits. Ive seen no documentary evidence from that time to show that 
Mr B and his wife were told that there was a ready re-sale market for their credits.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mr B and his were told 
that the accommodation would be significantly cheaper than would be available on 
the open market, that the exclusivity of the membership was misrepresented to them 
or that the membership credits were misrepresented to them in any other significant 
way. So I dont consider that theres enough evidence to show that Mr B and his wife 
were induced into buying the credits by misrepresentations made by the holiday 
company.
I understand that a management company related to the holiday company has 
stopped trading but the holiday company says that a new management company has 
been appointed to provide the membership services and Mr B have and his wife have 
kept all of their contractual rights and the new management company continues to 
offer a full service for members. I dont consider that to be a breach of contract by the 
holiday company.
Mr B has described in his witness statement some issues that he and his wife have 
had with their use of the credits. Im not persuaded that those issues are enough to 
constitute a breach of contract for which Oplo would be liable under section 75 and 
Im not aware of any other breach of contract by the holiday company.Mr Bs representative says that there was an unfair relationship between Mr B and 
the finance provider because of the alleged misrepresentations, the selling practices 
used by the holiday company (including a lengthy and confusing sales presentation), 
the documents not being clear and easy to understand, the membership being sold 
as an investment and not being suitable for Mr B, the foreclosure clause for non-
payment of management fees and other unfair clauses; and a secret commission 
paid by the finance provider to the holiday company.
I consider that the evidence shows that Mr B and his wife werent unduly pressured 
into buying the credits and that Mr B wasnt unduly pressured into entering into the 
loan agreement in August 2018. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show that the holiday company used unacceptable commercial practices against 
them. The agreements clearly set out their right to withdraw from the agreements 
without giving any reason within 14 days and Mr B confirmed in the welcome call that 
he was aware of his right to withdraw from the agreements. Ive seen no evidence to 
show that Mr B and his wife tried to withdraw from either the membership application 
agreement or the loan agreement during the withdrawal periods.
It would be for a court to decide whether the terms of the agreements are unfair. I 
agree with Mr Bs representative that the documents arent as clear and easy to read 
as they could be, but I dont consider that that makes them unfair and Im not 
persuaded that the terms of the agreements are unfair or that its likely that a court 
would find the agreements to be unfair.
Ive not been provided with any evidence to show what commission, if any, was paid 
by the finance provider to the holiday company but, from what this service has seen 
across the industry, if commission was ever paid it tended to be low and of less than 
10%. Im satisfied that the finance provider wouldnt have breached any duty in 
making any such payment and wasnt under any regulatory duty to disclose the 
amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. I dont consider that the 
level of any commission that was normally paid in this type of situation was 
sufficiently high to mean that the finance provider should have appreciated that not 
disclosing any commission to Mr B risked the relationship being unfair under section 
140A.
Mr B says in his witness statement that he wasnt able to choose the finance provider 
 but the initial disclosure document that he and his wife signed lists three different 
finance providers that could be used and Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that Mr B had to take a loan from the finance provider.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the relationship 
between Mr B and the finance provider was unfair and I dont consider it to be likely 
that a court would find the relationship to be unfair.Mr Bs representative says that it was irresponsible for the finance provider to have 
made the loan to Mr B and that no meaningful affordability checks or assessments 
were made. It also says that its clear that Mr B couldnt afford the purchase. The 
finance provider hasnt provided information about the credit checks that it made 
about the affordability of the loan for Mr B but Mr B confirmed in the welcome call that 
the loan was affordable for him. In the welcome call and in his witness statement hes 
provided evidence to show that his and his wifes joint annual income was more than 
£45,000. I consider that it would have been reasonable for the finance provider to 
have concluded that a loan with monthly repayments of £187 was affordable for Mr B 
at the time that the loan was made to him.
Ive not been provided with any evidence to show that the loan wasnt affordable for 
Mr B and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the loan 
wasnt affordable for him or that the finance provider lent to him irresponsibly.
I consider that the finance providers response to Mr Bs complaint was fair and 
reasonable and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it has 
acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr B. I sympathise with Mr B for the issues that 
hes described in his witness statement but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
in these circumstances for me to require Oplo to refund to him any of the money that 
they paid for the holiday club membership credits, to cancel his loan, to pay him any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
Subject to any further comments or evidence that I received from any of Mr B, his 
representative and Oplo, my provisional decision was that I didnt intend to uphold this 
complaint. Oplo says that it has no final points to make but Mr Bs representative has 
provided detailed responses to my provisional decision. 
It says, in summary and amongst other things, that:
the correspondence from the liquidator stated that the resale programme was 
discontinued and there was no club manager and conceded that it was an uncertain 
time for members so Mr B was entitled to give notice to accept the breach of contract 
and terminate the agreement;
this was more than a holiday product and was sold as an investment;
I have disregarded the findings of our investigator;
I should consider other similar complaints about how the holiday company operated 
and an unregulated broker introducing a customer to the finance company;
I havent considered Mr Bs detailed witness statement  and no evidence has been 
produced to rebut it so Mr Bs evidence should be accepted; 
recordings of the welcome call and video havent been provided to Mr B;
there was no viable resale market for the product;
the reference to resales means that the product was not sold purely for holiday 
purposes;
a breach of the timeshare regulations gives rise to an unfair relationship;
the terms of the purchase agreement and the club rules also give rise to an unfair 
relationship; and
the agreement doesnt bar out reliance placed on oral representations to induce the 
purchase and any clause purporting to bar out a claim based on misrepresentation in 
these circumstances would be unenforceable and anything said by the holiday company to induce Mr B to enter into the agreement is incorporated as a term of the 
contract. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change the findings that I set out in my 
provisional decision. I issued a provisional decision because I didnt agree with the 
recommendations made by our investigator. I said in my provisional decision that Id 
considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint and I described the reasons that I didnt 
consider that his complaint should be upheld. 
I understand that the recordings of the welcome call and the video have now been provided 
to Mr Bs representative. They were provided by the finance company and are 
contemporaneous evidence of some of what happened in August and September 2018 so I 
dont consider that its fair or reasonable to say that no evidence has been provided to rebut 
the evidence that Mr B provided in his witness statement. I have carefully considered Mr Bs 
witness statement and Ive also carefully considered the other evidence that he and his 
representative have provided and also the evidence that the finance company has provided. 
Some of the evidence in Mr Bs witness statement isnt consistent with the video and the 
recording of the welcome call so Im not persuaded that Mr Bs witness statement should be 
accepted as evidence of what happened.
The holiday company says that a management company is liquidation but Mr Bs 
representative has provided evidence to show that the holiday company went into 
liquidation. I consider that the liquidation of the holiday company would be a breach of 
contract for which Oplo would be liable under section 75  but another holiday company has 
been appointed to provide the services under the membership application agreement and 
other documents that Mr B agreed with the holiday company. I understand Mr Bs concerns 
arising from the liquidation of the holiday company but Ive seen no evidence to show that he 
hasnt been able to use his credits or that hes been adversely impacted by the liquidation of 
the holiday company. I consider the appointment of the other holiday company to have been 
a suitable remedy for any breach of contract and Im not persuaded that Mr B was entitled to 
terminate the agreement in these circumstances.
Mr Bs representative also says that an unregulated broker introduced customers to the 
finance company. The loan agreement that was electronically signed by Mr B identified three 
credit intermediaries. Ive seen evidence to show that at least two of those companies were 
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority in August 2018 to arrange loans. Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the credit intermediary wasnt 
authorised to arrange the loan for Mr B and I consider it to be more likely than not that the 
loan was arranged by an authorised credit intermediary.
This service considers each complaint on its individual merits. I have taken account of the 
evidence that Mr Bs representative has provided from other purchasers of memberships 
about the way that the sales were made to them but Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the holiday company misrepresented the credits to Mr B and his wife. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the points were sold as an investment and I dont consider that the 
offer of a future resale programme shows that they were an investment. Mr B had agreed 
that the resale facility wouldnt be available until August 2023 and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the resale facility was misrepresented to him.
Mr Bs representative says that a breach of the timeshare regulations gives rise to an unfair 
relationship and that the terms of the membership acquisition agreement and the club rules 
also give rise to an unfair relationship. Ive carefully considered those but it would be for a 
court to determine whether or not any of the terms are unfair. I dont consider that the 
presence of an unfair (or potentially unfair) term alone is likely to mean that a court would 
conclude that it created an unfair relationship between a debtor and a creditor as the court 
would consider how the term operated in practice and whether the operation of that term 
caused the relationship to be unfair. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show 
that the terms of the documents have been applied or operated unfairly against Mr B and I 
consider it be unlikely that a court would conclude in these circumstances that the terms of 
the documents created an unfair relationship between Mr B and the finance provider.
I consider that the finance providers response to Mr Bs claims under section 75 and 140A 
was fair and reasonable and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it 
has acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr B. I sympathise with Mr B for the issues that hes 
described in his witness statement but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Oplo to refund to him any of the money that he paid for the 
holiday club membership credits, to cancel his loan, to pay him any compensation or to take 
any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman