DRN-1558206
The complaint
Ms S complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has acted unfairly 
and unreasonably in how it dealt with her claim under a legal expenses insurance policy. 
She wants DAS to contribute towards her legal costs and the costs of repair for a boundary 
wall.
What happened
Ms S had a legal expenses insurance policy with DAS. She had a dispute with a neighbour 
about damage to a boundary wall, and made a claim under the policy after obtaining a 
specialist report. Ms S said that her building insurer told her she had £100,000 of legal cover 
when she called about the issue in July 2016. 
Ms S used her own solicitors from September 2017, who were instructed before any formal 
claim under the policy was made on 8 January 2019 to DAS. Legal proceedings weren't 
issued though Ms S received a barrister's opinion telling her that the time to bring a claim 
could run from October 2013 as she had said this was when she first raised the issue with 
her neighbours. Ms S said that time to bring the claim had run out and blamed DAS, though 
it wasn't until about nine months before time might run out that it received the claim. Ms S 
said she had settled the claim and part of her legal costs would be paid as a result by the 
other side, while the building insurer was considering the outstanding wall costs.
Ms S complained to DAS. It said that there had been delays in confirming her cover as the 
policy was taken out through her building insurer. DAS explained that between 8 January 
and 21 February it tried repeatedly to get the information needed from the building insurer, 
and while Ms S might've discussed the matter with the other insurer, the first DAS knew of 
the matter was when the claim was made in January 2019. It said it wasn't to blame for any 
delays before 21 February 2019.
But DAS accepted that it had taken from 21 February 2019 to 7 April 2019 to tell Ms S that 
her claim would be declined. It agreed that this wasn't fair or reasonable as it should've 
declined the claim when it had received the information from the building insurer, and paid 
£250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this failure.
DAS said that the claim wasn't covered as the date of the insured event wasn't confirmed 
and there were issues with the policy - it was taken out on 29 November 2014 but lapsed 1 
May 2017, but Ms S' solicitor had told DAS that the date of the insured event was 
September 2017. This meant Ms S wasn't insured by DAS at that time as the policy stated 
that the key date would be the first date that leads to a claim ("the date of occurrence"); that 
might be a date earlier than September 2017 but DAS needed an expert report to confirm 
this. DAS offered to refund the costs of any such report if it found the key date was while Ms 
S was insured by it and that her claim had reasonable prospects of success. DAS also said it 
would backdate the legal cover to 21 February 2019 if such a report was obtained, but only 
for reasonable legal costs to which it had agreed to pay.
Ms S complained to us. The investigator's view was that the policy set out that the date of 
occurrence of the insured event had to be while the policy was in force, and that this date was the event that led to the claim. She pointed out that Ms S' solicitor had told DAS (and 
the evidence given to it) was that the date of occurrence was September 2017 and it wasn't 
possible to show an earlier date without an expert report. The investigator said this meant 
that it was fair and reasonable for DAS to say Ms S wasn't insured at the date of occurrence, 
and to offer to reconsider and refund the cost if a supportive expert report was obtained.
The investigator also thought its offer to backdate the legal cover to 21 February 2019 if 
such a report was supplied and there were reasonable prospects of success was fair and 
reasonable. She also pointed out that DAS wasn't responsible for the delays before 21 
February 2019 as it needed to confirm the policy, and noted it wasn't involved until 8 
January 2019. The investigator said £250 compensation was fair and reasonable for the 
delay after 21 February 2019.
Ms S disagreed and said that her solicitor had made a mistake - she was adamant that the 
date of occurrence was earlier while she was insured with DAS. Ms S also said that she had 
an expert report from March 2016 confirming damage and didn't see the need for another 
report. Ms S thought that DAS should be held responsible for the actions of the building 
insurer.
The investigator explained that the building insurer was separate from DAS and asked for 
evidence that the 2016 report was sent to DAS. DAS said that it didn't receive the report but 
remained willing to consider an expert report as previously offered. Ms S confirmed that she 
didn't have evidence the 2016 report had been sent to DAS. The investigator said that her 
view hadn't changed and the evidence showed Ms S' solicitor had told DAS more than once 
that the date of occurrence was September 2017. She pointed out that Ms S hadn't sent any 
further evidence to DAS after its decline, despite its offer, and that it was open to Ms S to 
complain to the building insurer about its actions.
Ms S asked for an ombudsman's view, saying that the investigator hadn't understood that 
there was a difference between the date of occurrence and the date each time more damage 
was done to the boundary wall. Ms S said that the existence of the 2016 expert report 
showed the date of occurrence was before September 2017, though the full report wasn't 
sent to this service. Ms S didn't accept that her solicitor had told DAS the date of occurrence 
was September 2017, but didn't provide any evidence from him such as a file note. She felt 
that DAS was trying to avoid her claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When I refer to DAS, I'm also referring to 
its agents. DAS isn't responsible for the actions of the building insurer as they are separate.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that DAS has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldn't reject a claim unreasonably.
Handling and timing of the claim
When deciding if DAS has acted fairly and reasonably, I have to bear in mind what it knew, 
the information it was told and given, and what it is and isn't responsible for. While Ms S 
might've been dealing with the building insurer, it wasn't until 8 January 2019 that DAS was 
contacted and a claim made. I note that the policy sets out clearly that DAS was the 
underwriter for the legal expenses policy and how to contact it for assistance and to make a 
claim; DAS is not responsible for the failure to contact it earlier.I also note that Ms S chose to instruct solicitors and not make a claim until a late stage, 
despite the policy saying that DAS wouldn't pay any costs incurred before a claim was made 
and approval given. This means that any costs incurred before 21 February 2019 won't be 
covered by the policy, and even those covered is likely to be subject to the standard costs 
DAS is willing to pay, which is generally less than private rates.
Having considered the evidence available to me, I accept that between 8 January and 21 
February 2019 DAS was trying to validate the policy by asking the building insurer and Ms S 
for information. This isn't unfair or unreasonable, particularly as when the claim was made 
DAS was told that there was no deadline or limitation issue (though Ms S explained in late 
January that in fact there was a limitation issue).
But on 21 February, DAS received  critical information from the building insurer about the 
dates of coverage, but didn't consider this information in order to make a decision until 7 
April 2019. DAS accepts that this was unfair and unreasonable and I agree. But if the 
decision to decline was correct at that time, then no financial loss was caused to Ms S and 
all that's left is compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this failing. Money never 
truly compensates for trouble and upset and much of Ms S' upset is about the decline; I think 
£250 compensation is fair and reasonable for this error.
The decision to decline
I agree with Ms S that there's a difference between the date of occurrence and the date 
damage is first noticed, done or continues to be done. The policy says that the key date is 
the event that first leads to the claim, and this must be within the period of insurance. But 
DAS could only make its decision based on the evidence it had and the information it 
received.
Ms S' solicitor did say that the date of occurrence was September 2017 when the claim was 
made, both in making the claim and in a letter. While I can understand why Ms S says that 
he made a mistake, the solicitor confirmed this information again in a telephone call on 12 
April 2019. I have seen the notes written at the time of the call and I will place weight on 
these notes as they were contemporaneous and made before a complaint was made to this 
service. Ms S hasn't provided any evidence from her solicitor about this call. The notes show 
that DAS was told by the solicitor that the date of occurrence was September 2017 and an 
expert report would be needed to show an earlier date. It's fair and reasonable for DAS to 
believe that a solicitor understands the meaning of the phrase "date of occurrence" and to 
have seen all the evidence gathered by his client.
Ms S says that DAS was wrong to believe the date of occurrence was September 2017, but 
given what the solicitor said more than once to DAS, I think it was fair and reasonable for 
DAS to accept his view. I'm aware that Ms S says she obtained an expert report in 2016, 
and she points out logically why would she have a report from 2016 if the date of occurrence 
was September 2017? But Ms S accepts that DAS never saw that report, which is supported 
by the evidence before me. Even now, DAS could be sent the report for consideration by Ms 
S or her solicitor as it has offered to consider the matter if an expert report is sent, but this 
hasn't happened. The solicitor didn't offer to send it to DAS when the case was discussed in 
April 2019, but the notes say that he said a report would be needed, which implies whatever 
he had in his possession wasn't sufficient. As DAS wasn't sent the report, I think it's fair and 
reasonable that it hasn't considered it and made its decision based on what Ms S and her 
solicitor did send. The decision to decline was fair and reasonable.
I also think DAS' offer to consider the matter of the date of occurrence if an expert report is 
sent is fair and reasonable in the circumstances; I note that the terms of the policy says DAS 
can require such a report. It's also fair and reasonable for DAS to say if the expert report confirms an earlier date of occurrence which is within the period of insurance and that 
there's a reasonable prospect of success, it will accept the claim and backdate it to 21 
February 2019. That said, matters have moved on and it seems as if the wall and legal costs 
may be being dealt with outside of court proceedings; if the claim is accepted, the other 
terms and conditions of the policy will still apply.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 
2 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman