The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Inter Partner Assistance S.A. (IPA) is responsible for poor 
service in connection with their home emergency insurance.
What happened
Where I refer to IPA I include engineers and others insofar as I hold IPA responsible for their 
actions.
Mrs J had a home insurance policy. Mr J was a joint policyholder. In addition to home 
buildings and contents cover, the policy provided home and heating emergency cover under 
which IPA was responsible for dealing with claims.
The home and heating emergency cover provided for repairs. It also provided for three 
nights overnight accommodation if the home was uninhabitable following an emergency.
Mr and Mrs J called for help with their central heating boiler on 4 November 2019. He 
complained about delay. IPA offered  but Mr J didnt accept - alternative accommodation.
IPA fixed the boiler on 13 November 2019. IPA sent a final response letter dated 14 
November 2019. It acknowledged delay and it offered £250.00 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to us later that month. They said that the correct level 
of compensation would be the £450.00 IPA had offered for alternative accommodation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought there 
were delays but that £250.00 was fair for the inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. He says, in summary, that:
IPA brought the wrong part.
He had to do all the running around to get service they had paid for.
He and Mrs J had 10 days of suffering and waiting for a part that was readily
available just 7 miles away from their house.
IPA told lies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1647156reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see from the policy schedule that Mrs J was paying about £70.00 per year for the home 
and heating emergency cover.
IPA visited on 5 November 2019 and diagnosed a need for a replacement part.
IPA didnt communicate with Mr and Mrs J as much or as accurately as it shouldve done.
After many calls from Mr J and a wasted visit, it took until 13 November before IPA fixed the 
boiler.  
In the meantime Mr and Mrs J had to use their immersion heater for hot water and their 
house was cold. 
So IPA was responsible for poor service that caused Mr and Mrs J distress and 
inconvenience.
However, IPA offered £250.00. That is at least as much as I wouldve otherwise found fair for 
the level of Mr and Mrs Js distress and inconvenience for which IPA was responsible over 
the period of about ten days in November 2019.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct IPA to pay Mr and Mrs J any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Inter Partner Assistance S.A. to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July2020.
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman