DRN-3330406
The complaint
Mr S complains about charges made by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) when he returned his vehicle. 
What happened
Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement for a new vehicle with MBFS in March 2019. 
The agreement was for 12 months, with the vehicle due to be returned in March 2020. As a 
result of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) and associated lockdowns, MBFS were 
unable to arrange collection of Mr Ss vehicle until August 2020. 
Collection agents collected and inspected the car for MBFS on 3 August 2020. The report 
from this inspection notes damage outside of fair wear and tear and the cost to Mr S as 
follows: 
General exterior dirty - £10
Left hand front wheel  Polished alloy damage  under 2mm deep over 20% of rim or 
on spoke - £85
Right hand front wheel  Polished alloy damage  under 2mm deep over 20% of rim 
or on spoke - £85
Left hand front tyre  1.5mm inner tread  illegal condition - £289.29
Right hand front tyre  1.5mm inner tread  illegal condition - £289.29
MBFS also charged Mr S £379 for an incomplete service history, £1,093.03 for excess 
mileage and £8,441.86 for additional days hire. 
Mr S complained to MBFS about the charges. He said hed been unable to return the car at 
the end of the agreement due to Covid-19, and so shouldnt be charged for the additional 
days hire. 
MBFS sent Mr S their final response to his complaint in January 2021. They apologised for 
charging him for extra days hire and removed the £8,441.86 charge. This left the £379 
charge for the service history, the £1,096.03 charge for excess mileage and the £758.59 
charge for damage for Mr S to pay. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said hed 
paid the charges for the incomplete service history and the excess mileage, but he didnt 
agree with the damage charges. Mr S said if he couldve returned the vehicle sooner or if he 
was given an opportunity to rectify the wear and tear the charges wouldve been much less. 
Our investigator gave her view that the charges were applied fairly. She said the damage 
was outside of fair wear and tear, that Mr S did get an opportunity to repair any damage 
before the end of the agreement, and she was persuaded the damage occurred prior to the 
agreement ending. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said he didnt have an opportunity to repair the damage due to Covid-
19, and because MBFS replaced the tyres without giving him a chance to do anything. Mr S 
said he returned the car as soon as possible after lockdown and the tyres were within legal 
limits. He said it wasnt obvious from a photo that the tyres were only 0.1mm outside of 
specification. 
Our investigator said the tyre tread depth was recorded on the collection report, MBFS didnt 
need to give Mr S a chance to repair the damage once the vehicle had been collected, and 
Mr S had a chance to repair any wear and tear prior to the contract ending in March 2020, 
which was also prior to any Covid-19 restrictions. 
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the case afresh, and so the case has been passed 
to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S signed a hire purchase agreement in March 2019. The terms of the agreement set out 
that the vehicle must be returned at the end of the agreement in line with the vehicle return 
standards. It confirms that an inspection will be carried out by trained technicians and goes 
on to set out the acceptable return standards, beyond which it allows MBFS to charge for the 
costs of either repairing and / or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent 
reduction in the sale value of the vehicle. 
Its clear from the agreement that Mr S was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition. 
Ive considered whether the charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable.  
Along with the vehicle return standards set out in the agreement, there are industry standard 
guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) which 
set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of a hired vehicle. So, I have 
also considered these in deciding what its fair for MBFS to charge on return of the car.
Ive seen evidence of the photos taken by the collection agents when the vehicle was 
inspected. 
Exterior
The hire agreement sets out in the vehicle return standards that the vehicle must be returned 
in good, clean, and marketable condition. The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say the 
vehicles exterior should be sufficiently clean to allow a detailed inspection. 
Im satisfied that the photos clearly show the exterior of the vehicle to be in a dirty condition, 
and that it was reasonable for it to be cleaned prior to a detailed inspection taking place. So, 
Im satisfied that the £10 charge to clean it has been fairly applied. 
Alloy Wheels
The hire agreement sets out in the vehicle return standards that minor scuffing or damage 
under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face is acceptable. The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the 
alloy wheel are acceptable. 
Im satisfied that the photos clearly show scuffs over 50mm on both front alloys. So, Im 
satisfied that the charge of £170 for repair of the two alloys has been fairly applied.
Tyres
The hire agreement sets out that tyres must have a minimum remaining tread of 1.6mm 
across 75% of the tyre, in line with current MOT legislation. The BVRLA fair wear and tear 
standards say that all tyres must meet minimum UK legal requirements. 
The collection agents have measured and recorded the tread depth on all four tyres. The two 
front tyres are recorded as 1.5mm. They are also recorded as illegal. Current minimum UK 
legal requirements are 1.6mm of tread depth. So, Im satisfied that both front tyres are 
outside of legal requirements and the charge of £578.58 for their replacement has been fairly 
applied.
Mr S has said that he wasnt given an opportunity to address any wear and tear prior to the 
tyres being replaced by MBFS. The vehicle return standards form part of the agreement that 
Mr S signed in March 2019. So, Im satisfied that MBFS provided the information to allow Mr 
S to assess any charges he might encounter at the end of the agreement in good time. 
Whilst Covid-19 restrictions prevented the collection of Mr Ss vehicle at the end of the 
agreement, I dont agree that they prevented him from addressing any damage outside of 
fair wear and tear. 
Mr Ss agreement ended on 22 March 2020. Covid-19 restrictions began on 23 March 2020, 
so Im satisfied that Mr S had an opportunity to assess the vehicle and repair or replace any 
items not in line with the vehicle return standards prior to the end of his agreement and prior 
to any limitations as a result of Covid-19.  
Its often the case that cars are sold at auction or re-leased quickly after collection, so I dont 
think its unreasonable for MBFS to have applied the charge to replace the tyres without 
providing another opportunity for Mr S to complete any required work. 
Mr S has said that if hed been able to return the car sooner, the damage charge wouldve 
been lower. Mr S said he didnt use the car after the agreement end date, because he didnt 
need to travel to work during the Covid-19 lockdown. So, Im satisfied that the damage 
occurred prior to the end of the agreement and didnt worsen due to the delay in collecting 
the vehicle.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman