DRN-2129306
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 27 July 2020, a copy of which is 
attached below and forms part of this decision.
In summary I said that Mr S had been supplied with a used car under a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. He had problems with the car and took it back to the dealership 
who supplied it. The dealership carried out some repairs, but Mr S was still having problems, 
so he complained to Moneybarn.
Moneybarn arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. The engineer said that 
the faults with the car were present when it was supplied to Mr S, and it was the dealerships 
responsibility to repair these faults. I said I thought this meant that the car wasnt of a 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S.
I said that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 gave Mr S the right to reject the car within 30-
days. And he had a further right to reject later on if any repairs were unsuccessful. Because 
the dealership had already had the opportunity to repair the car, and the faults were still 
present, it was my provisional decision that Mr S should now be allowed to reject the car.
Both Mr S and Moneybarn have been given the opportunity to comment on my provisional 
decision. Mr S agreed with my provisional decision but Moneybarn didnt.
Moneybarn said we cannot conclude the faults would have been evident at the time the 
dealership undertook the initial repairs. And they said because the independent engineer 
said no unsuccessful repairs they dont think the dealership wouldve had the opportunity to 
address the faults the independent engineer identified. So they think the dealership should 
now be given the opportunity to repair the faults in the independent engineers report.
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn), was of an unsatisfactory quality.
what happened
In late May 2019, Mr S took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to cover the 
cost of a used car. The agreement was for £7,945 over 57 months, with monthly repayments 
of £299.55. At the time the car was about 7 years old and had done just over 99,000 miles.
On 5 July 2019 Mr S complained to Moneybarn that there were faults with the car  he said 
there were issues with the sunroof, stereo, doors and suspension. Hed already complained to 
the dealership whod sold him the car, and theyd carried out repairs on the suspension. But 
Mr S believed these repairs had failed and he wanted to reject the car. 
Moneybarn arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car and this inspection took 
place on 17 July 2019. The engineer found faults with the car that were present when the 
finance started, and said the dealership were responsible for the repairs. As a result of the 
inspection, the dealership offered to fix the faults identified. Mr S has rejected this offer, and 
the car remains unrepaired.
Mr S has complained that the car was faulty when he took possession of it, and the 
dealership refused to let him hand the car back within the 14-day cooling off period. 
Our investigator said Mr S had acquired a used car which had done a significant amount of 
mileage. There were faults present when he took possession of the car, and the investigator 
thought the dealerships offer to repair these faults was reasonable. So he didnt think 
Moneybarn needed to do anything more.
The investigator also said that Mr S didnt have the right to reject the car within a 14-day 
cooling off period, but he did have the right to withdraw from the agreement within this period, 
by paying Moneybarn the value of the finance and retaining possession of the car. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He said the faults werent pointed out to him when he 
took possession of the car, and if they were, he wouldnt have accepted it. Hes also said the 
dealership told him the car would come with a full MOT with no advisories. He didnt receive 
an MOT certificate and there were advisories when he had the car MOTd himself. Mr S has 
also said that the finance agreement did give him the right to reject the car within a 14-day 
cooling off period. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the 
relevant law and regulations; any regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice, and (if appropriate) what I consider was good industry practice at the time.
Mr S was supplied with the car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should be of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if not, as the supplier of goods, Moneybarn are responsible.  Whats 
satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the 
price, description and other relevant circumstances. 
In this case, this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale; and the 
vehicles history. The quality of the goods also includes their general state and condition; and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability. Durability means that the components within the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr S bought it, and this made the car not of a 
satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
When Mr S took possession of the car it was around 7 years old and had done over 99,000 
miles. Id expect to see some wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and mileage. And I think 
any reasonable person would expect to have to repair or replace some parts of the car over 
time. Theres no dispute that there were some issues with the car. But what I need to consider 
is whether those faults, and the repairs Mr Ss car needed, were typical of a high mileage car. 
And therefore something Mr S shouldve reasonably expected.Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report carried out on 17 July 2019. This report 
said that the suspension had been successfully repaired. But it also said there were fault 
codes and a possible blocked air vent (causing cabin pressure and issues with the doors 
closing) that required further investigation.
In conclusion, the engineer said faults were found at the time of our inspection and {I} 
consider them to have been present or developing at the point of finance inception and should 
be returned to the selling agent for rectification. The selling agent is responsible for the cost of 
repairs.
Where goods are faulty, the Consumer Right Act 2015 says the consumer has the right to 
reject them within 30 days. They also have a further right to reject the goods later on if any 
repairs are unsuccessful.
Mr S says he reported the faults to Moneybarn within 30-days. And the dealership had the 
right to attempt to repair the car. But they only have one opportunity to complete the repairs. 
The independent engineer has said that the faults were present at the time Mr S took 
possession of the car. And the dealership had already repaired the suspension. But they 
didnt deal with the fault codes or the blocked air vent.
The fault codes relate to the glow plugs, which is part of the ignition circuit. And Mr S has had 
problems starting the car  when the independent engineer inspected the car, the report said 
that the car wouldnt start. And, regardless of the age and mileage, any reasonable person 
would expect to be able to start their car and to be able to close the doors (for safety and 
security purposes) without issue.
Mr S has also explained that the problems with the car starting are ongoing. So the car is 
unusable and isnt being driven. Because of this, he stopped paying Moneybarn.
Im satisfied that the faults with the car are significant; that the dealership have had an 
opportunity to repair the faults; and that the faults remain. While the dealership has offered to 
repair the faults, Mr S doesnt want this. Mr S has the right to reject the car, and I think he 
should be allowed to do so.
my provisional decision
For the reasons explained above I intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint. So Moneybarn No.1 
Limited should
collect the car at no cost to Mr S and at a time convenient to him;
cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to pay;
refund the £400 deposit Mr S paid for the car, along with 8% annual simple interest 
from the date the deposit was paid to the date its refunded;
remove the agreement, and any associated adverse information, from Mr S's credit 
file.
Moneybarn doesn't need to refund the monthly repayments already made as Mr S stopped 
paying once he no longer had use of the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, when the independent engineer inspected Mr Ss car on 17 July 2019, they said 
that the faults that were present when the car was supplied were:
The doors didnt close correctlyThere were problems starting the car
There were fault codes associated with the glow plugs
The engineer also said that the suspension had been repaired by swapping the suspension 
unit with that from another car  new suspension components werent used. 
Ive also seen the email Mr S sent to the dealership on 11 June 2019, a few weeks after he 
took possession of the car. In addition to the issue with the suspension, Mr S also said the 
air conditioning wasnt working, he was having problems starting the car, he felt the front 
brake discs may have been warped and the bonnet latch kept getting stuck.
Not all of these were faults identified by the independent engineer. But, as I said in my 
provisional decision, the fault codes identified related to the glow plugs - which is part of the 
ignition circuit and wouldve impacted whether the car started. Mr S told the dealership that 
he was having problems starting the car, and this wasnt dealt with by the dealership. So Im 
satisfied that the dealership had an opportunity to fix this fault. And they didnt. 
With regards to the doors not closing properly, this was due to a blocked air vent causing 
increased cabin pressure. While Mr S didnt specifically tell the dealership about the doors, 
he did complain about the air-conditioning not working properly. And the air-conditioning 
circuit is intrinsically linked with the air-vents. Whats more, if the dealership were moving Mr 
Ss car on and off a ramp to do the work on the suspension unit, as well as any other moving 
of the car they may have needed to have done, Id expect them to notice there were 
problems with shutting the door. And to have fixed this as well. Again they didnt.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that the issues Mr S raised with the dealership in June 2019 are 
the same as (or very closely linked to) the faults the independent engineer identified in July 
2019 and said were present when Mr S took possession of the car.
So, while the comments made by Moneybarn are noted, they dont change my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
Because Mr S was supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality, and because the 
dealership has already had an opportunity to fix the faults, Moneybarn should:
collect the car at no cost to Mr S and at a time convenient to him;
cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to pay;
refund the £400 deposit Mr S paid for the car, along with 8% annual simple interest 
from the date the deposit was paid to the date its refunded;
remove the agreement, and any associated adverse information, from Mr S's credit 
file.
Moneybarn doesn't need to refund the monthly repayments already made as Mr S stopped 
paying when he could no longer use the car because of the identified faults.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ss complaint. And Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
must follow my directions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman