DRN-1758676
The complaint
Miss F complains that Allianz Insurance Plc declined her pet insurance claim. My references 
to Allianz include its agents.
What happened
Miss F took out pet insurance for her dog, insured by Allianz, starting in July 2018. The 
policy covered an illness or injury for 12 months or up to the policy limit, whichever 
happened first.
In May 2019 Miss F claimed for her dogs treatment following his mouth abscess which led 
to a tooth extraction and further vet visits due to his excessive bleeding following the 
extraction. 
Allianz declined the claim. It looked at Miss Fs dogs vet records and saw that in 
February 2018 the dog was noted to have bad teeth T+++. Allianz said as the policy didnt 
cover pre-existing conditions there was no cover for the treatment claimed. 
Allianz also said Miss F should have told it about her dogs bad teeth in response to the 
questions she was asked when she bought the policy. It added a specific policy exclusion 
from the start of the policy for mouth and oral disorders.
Miss F complained to us. She said her dogs teeth hadnt needed treating before she took 
out the policy, the vets comment was just made as part of his 2018 annual check-up. Also at 
the 2019 check-up, a month before the abscess, the vet hadnt mentioned her dogs teeth 
and his abscess happened out of the blue. 
Miss F wants Allianz to pay the full claim or at least the cost of the aftercare treatment. 
Alternatively she wants a refund of her policy premiums.
Our investigator said Allianz fairly declined the claim and added the specific policy exclusion.
Miss F disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said her dogs breed often have 
bad teeth and she didnt think it was a medical issue. The vet just gave her advice on teeth 
brushing and at the next check-up her dogs teeth were fine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss F as I dont uphold her complaint. I have to decide whether 
Allianz fairly and reasonably declined the claim and added the specific policy exclusion, and 
I think it did. Ill explain why. 
Allianz declined the claim for two reasons; it fell into the pre-existing condition general policy 
exclusion and that it fell into the specific policy exclusion Allianz added to apply from the 
start of the policy. Ill consider both reasons.
The policy is clear it doesnt cover a pre-existing condition, which the policy defines as an 
illness or injury that:
a) Happened or first showed clinical signs,
b) Has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an injury, illness or clinical sign your 
pet had,
c) Is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet 
had,
Before your pets cover started.
Theres no evidence that Miss Fs dog had or showed signs of having a tooth abscess before 
she took out the policy. But the vet notes record that Miss Fs dog did have bad teeth before 
the policy started and Allianz understands that the abscess was caused by or related to his 
bad teeth.
The vet records have no comment about the dogs teeth when he had his 2019 annual 
check-up about a month before the abscess. The lack of comment suggests the dogs teeth 
had improved. But I think Allianz can still reasonably conclude there was a link to his tooth 
abscess and his history of bad teeth. Ive seen no evidence from the dogs vet to show there 
was no relationship between the dogs history of bad teeth and his tooth abscess. I think 
Allianz fairly relied on the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the claim. 
When Miss F bought the policy online she was asked various questions which included:
Has (dogs name) shown any signs of an illness or injury or been unwell, either now 
or in the past? This is regardless whether or not (dogs name )was seen by a vet for 
the problem, and 
Has (dogs name) been seen by a vet for any reason and 
Other than what you have mentioned have you discussed anything else with your vet 
about (dogs name)? We need to know about any potential signs of illness or injury 
even if the vet didnt feel there was anything to worry about at the time or even if the 
signs went away quickly.
Miss F told Allianz about some matters her dog had been treated for by the vet. The dog 
didnt have treatment for his teeth before the policy started. But in answering those questions 
I think it would have been reasonable for Miss F to have said the vet told her dog had bad 
teeth, even if the vets recommendation was just brushing.
Where we think it would have been reasonable for a consumer to tell an insurer about a 
matter, but they havent done so, we generally say its fair for an insurer to take the action it 
would have done if it had known about the matter. Thats in line with what the relevant law 
enables an insurer to do in these circumstances. 
If Allianz had known about the dogs bad teeth it would have added a specific exclusion from 
the start of the policy for mouth and oral disorders (reviewable 24 months clear from the last 
treatment date). So I think it acted fairly in adding that backdated specific exclusion to 
Miss Fs policy and saying the claim fell within that exclusion. 
As Allianz fairly declined the claim I cant reasonably ask it to pay any part of the claim as 
the aftercare treatment related to a condition that wasnt covered by the policy.Allianz doesnt have to refund Miss F the policy premiums she paid because it did provide 
cover during the policy period, subject to the policy terms.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman