DRN-4009578
The complaint
Miss T complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited refused to repair the air 
conditioning unit in her car following a claim she made on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss T made a claim on her car insurance policy when she was in an accident. Advantages 
approved repairers carried out the repair work, but Miss T said when she got the car back, 
she found the air conditioning wasnt as cold as it had been before the accident. She 
informed the garage and says they re-gassed the air conditioning unit. Miss T says almost a 
year later she discovered the air conditioning wasnt cold and returned it again. Miss T says 
the garage inspected the car and said there was a leak from the condenser. However, 
Advantage said the leak had been caused by corrosion, it didnt think it was accident related, 
so it wouldnt cover the cost of the repairs to the air conditioning unit.
Miss T didnt agree and complained, she said the condenser had been replaced less than 
two years before the incident, but Advantage didnt change its decision. As such, she 
brought her complaint to our service and said she felt the decision to decline the repairs was 
unfair as it was based on an engineers report carried out almost a year after the accident. 
Miss T doesnt think the report is sufficient proof the air conditioning wasnt damaged in the 
accident.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the evidence 
suggested it was more likely the issue wasnt connected to accident damage or a one-off 
occurrence. Our investigator thought Advantages decision not to pay the for the further 
repairs was reasonable. 
Miss T didnt accept our investigators opinion. She says she complained about the issue 
immediately and had the air conditioning engineer been asked to comment sooner, she 
thinks the outcome would have been different. She doesnt think Advantages repairer acted 
in a timely manner. Miss T also doesnt think there is enough evidence in the engineers 
report to prove corrosion was present at the time of the accident. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. As 
per its earlier request, I wrote to Advantage to provide the invoice Miss T sent us showing 
the condenser in her car had been replaced. I also explained why I thought its decision not 
to cover the cost of the repairs was unfair. Neither party provide any further comments or 
information for me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The terms and conditions of the policy exclude: 
Repairs or replacements unrelated to your claim that improve the condition of your Car 
This means Advantage is only responsible for repairing damage caused by the accident. 
Advantage doesnt think the further damage Miss T reported was accident related. So, Ive 
thought about whether it was fair for it not to take responsibility for the damage to her air 
conditioning. To do this, what I must consider is whether Advantage carried out a fair 
investigation, reviewed all the evidence available to it and reached a reasonable decision. 
Advantage had the car inspected by an air conditioning specialist. Its provided an invoice 
from them with a brief handwritten note which says the leak from the condenser was due to 
corrosion. The specialist doesnt indicate whether the issues might have stemmed from 
damage caused in the accident. Therefore, Im not persuaded this brief note is sufficient 
evidence the damage wasnt accident related.
Advantage says its engineer also reviewed the damage and thought the leak in the unit was 
caused by corrosion. Its engineer states the photographs following the accident didnt show 
any impact damage to the unit. However, Advantage hasnt shown where the leak it found 
was in relation to the photographs it provided and there arent any signs of corrosion in the 
photographs Ive seen. 
It thinks the issue was pre-existing and likely down to normal corrosion which occurs over 
time. It says its unlikely for corrosion to have occurred in the time between the accident and 
the specialists inspection. While I agree corrosion by nature develops slowly over time, its 
initial report does not suggest there was any pre-existing damage or corrosion to the 
condenser. Furthermore, Miss T has provided evidence the condenser was replaced prior to 
the incident and as Advantage itself says corrosion takes a considerable amount of time, Im 
not persuaded normal corrosion would have likely occurred in the time since it was replaced. 
Miss T says she raised her concerns with the garage on more than one occasion and she 
says they re-gassed the system twice. I appreciate it says the radiator isnt something that is 
usually damaged following an accident, but as it had need to re-gas the system on more 
than one occasion within the year, I think it ought to have been aware there may have been 
an issue. Even if that was not the case, as Miss T informed the garage that the air 
conditioning had worked prior to the incident, I would have expected Advantage to have 
investigated the matter when it was first made aware, but it didnt investigate until almost a 
year after the accident occurred. 
All things considered; I dont think Advantage carried out a reasonable investigation. 
Because of the length of time thats passed, its difficult to know whether the issue existed 
prior to the accident and Im not satisfied based on the evidence provided, that Advantage 
has done enough to show it did. Had it investigated sooner; I think it would have been able 
to better identify whether the problem was pre-existing. Miss T would also have had the 
opportunity to obtain her own independent report if she didnt agree with its findings. So, I 
think its decision not to cover the cost of the repairs was unfair.
Putting things right
Miss T should obtain an estimate for the work from a local garage of her choosing and 
Advantage should cover the cost of the repairs. Alternatively, if Miss T prefers, Advantage 
could make arrangements to have the repairs completed by an approved repairer.
I also think it should compensate Miss T for the time it took before it investigated the issue 
and the time in which Miss T was left without an air conditioning system that functioned 
correctly. Once it identified the problem, I think it would have been upsetting to find out 
Advantage would not cover this cost. I think £150 compensation is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I have decided I uphold this complaint and require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited to: 
Cover the cost of repairing Miss Ts air conditioning unit. Miss T should obtain an 
estimate for the work from a local garage of her choosing and Advantage should 
cover the cost of the repairs. Alternatively, if Miss T prefers, Advantage should make 
arrangements to have the repairs completed by an approved repairer.
Pay £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman