DRN-3215143
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc, trading as Abbey National, mis-sold him a 
mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr M took out the policy in 1992. Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint     
should be upheld. As Mr M didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Because the sale was so long ago, Santander no longer has any of the paperwork signed 
by Mr M and almost no details about his policy. And Santander isnt required to keep 
papers for this length of time. So, Ive had to make my decision on the basis of the 
information that I do have and what we know generally about the sale of MPPI policies. 
And, in particular, those sold by Santander. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive 
or contradictory, (as some of it is here), Ive made my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in the light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Further, I cant be sure that I have a copy of the actual terms and conditions that applied to 
Mr Ms policy. But Ive looked at a leaflet about the MPPI offered by Santander several 
months before the sale and the earliest policy that Santander has supplied to us, which was 
effective some three years afterwards. Ive decided this complaint on the basis that the 
terms of Mr Ms MPPI were likely to have been similar to what is set out in these 
documents. 
Im satisfied that the above approaches are a fair and reasonable way of reaching my 
decision.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Mr M says that his mortgage with Santander started in 1988. Santander can only find a 
record of one MPPI policy in Mr Ms name. It says its records show that the first premium 
for this was collected in 1992. I dont know why this is later than the mortgage start date, 
but I find that this doesnt necessarily mean that there was another earlier policy. (For 
instance, its possible that the policy had an introductory free period.) And, as this is the 
only MPPI in Mr Ms name sold by Santander about which I have any information, this is 
the one I have investigated.
Mr M say that, at the time of the sale, he was under the impression that he had to take out 
the MPPI. But he is trying to recall matters that took place almost 30 years ago. And I dont 
think that its fair and reasonable to rely solely on what he remembers. In the absence of 
any more persuasive evidence, I dont consider that Ive anything on which to base a 
finding that Santander didnt make it clear to Mr M that the policy was optional or that he 
didnt choose to take it.
From what Mr M has told us, I find it is likely that he would have been eligible for the MPPI.
Mr M says that the sale took place during a meeting and that Santander advised him to take 
out the insurance. This means that Santander needed to have taken reasonable steps to 
ensure that the policy was suitable for him. Because of the time that has passed, I dont 
know what steps Santander actually took. But, in any event, I find that the MPPI was 
suitable. I say this taking into account what I know about Mr Ms circumstances and by 
reference to the likely terms and conditions of the policy, because:
Mr M has told us that he was entitled to some sick pay from his employer. He also 
may have been entitled to a redundancy package. But, following a successful claim 
for accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment, the MPPI would likely, as a 
minimum, have paid his monthly mortgage payments. Santander has told us that 
these payments would have been made for up to 36 months had Mr M been unable 
to work because of accident or sickness. And would have been paid for up to 12 
months had he involuntarily become unemployed. And would have been paid in 
addition to any sick or redundancy payments from his work, leaving those available 
to help with meeting his other expenses while he wasnt earning. So I find that the 
MPPI could have been of use to Mr M;
The first monthly premium cost, which Santander has been able to give us, is for a 
date 11 months after its records show that premiums were first collected, and was 
about £20. And I havent seen anything to suggest that the premiums were 
unaffordable for Mr M. In any event, had he later felt that he couldnt afford the 
policy or no longer wanted it, he could have cancelled it at any time without further 
cost, as it was paid for monthly.
Santander also had to give Mr M clear, fair, and not-misleading information about the main 
features of the MPPI, so that he could decide whether he wanted it or not. Its possible that 
the information Santander gave Mr M wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Ive found 
nothing on which to conclude that he didnt choose to take the policy and, as Ive concluded 
above, it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have 
put him off taking out the cover. I say this, particularly bearing in mind the serious 
consequences that could have arisen had Mr M been unable to make his monthly 
payments on his mortgage, which were secured on his home.
In certain circumstances Santander has to reimburse some of the MPPI premiums its 
customers paid because of the high level of commission or profit share it received from the 
relevant sale. Im satisfied that Santander has carried appropriate searches to show Mr M 
didnt have any loans with it during the times that might have given rise to such a 
requirement. 
So I conclude that Mr M hant lost out because of anything that Santander may have 
done wrong during the sale. So theres nothing I require it to put right.
As Ive said, Ive considered all the information that the parties have given us. Mr M has 
told us:that he may have had some savings at the time of the sale that he could have used 
to help make his mortgage payments had he not been working. But any such 
savings may not have still been available at the time he was unable to work;
that when he tried to make a claim he found out that the policy didnt pay out for the 
first few weeks of any period of disability or unemployment, (the excess period). 
And he says that that made the MPPI useless for him. However, the inclusion of an 
excess period, although not universal, isnt particularly unusual in MPPI policies. And 
I dont agree this makes the insurance of no use;
that he has successfully been reimbursed some of the cost of other payment 
protection insurance policies that he had. I have no information about these other 
polices. But, in any event, I have to determine this matter on its specific facts and 
surrounding circumstances, without reference to any other policies or sales. This is 
what Ive done.
So these and Mr Ms other points dont affect my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman