DRN-2248256
The complaint
Mr A complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his claim and cancelled his motor 
insurance policy. He wants the cancellation removed from his record.
What happened
Mr A was involved in an incident when another vehicle hit the rear of his car. He said hed 
braked when he thought a pedestrian had stepped between parked cars. He reported this to 
UKI which held the other driver liable. The other insurer disputed liability and UKI analysed 
video footage of the incident. It didnt see any pedestrians. And it thought Mr A had provided 
a false statement. So it cancelled the policy and declined the claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI had 
reasonably concluded that Mr A had provided a false statement. He thought it had 
repudiated the claim and cancelled the policy in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. 
Mr A replied that he recalled seeing someone out of the corner of his eye and had correctly 
braked. He said the other driver had his hands off the wheel and hadnt stopped in time. He 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this incident has had serious consequences for Mr A. Hes been accused of 
fraud, his and his wifes policies have been cancelled, hes had to reimburse UKI for his 
repair costs, hes liable for any further costs it incurs, and his future premiums will increase 
due to the cancellation. 
Mr A said hed braked when he saw a pedestrian out of the corner of his eye. Mr A reported 
this to UKI on the day of the accident when he described what happened. I can see that UKI 
initially supported his account and maintained that the other driver was liable for the 
accident. 
UKI then reviewed the dash cam footage provided by the other insurer and it found several 
concerns about Mr As driving prior to the incident. Mr A was driving alongside the other 
vehicle and continued to do so after his lane ended. He eventually managed to pull in front of 
the other vehicle when there was a row of parked cars on the left. UKI couldnt see any 
pedestrians. It thought Mr A had braked sharply for no reason so that the other driver had 
collided with the rear of his car. 
UKI said this was at odds with Mr As initial account of what had happened. It decided that 
hed provided a false statement so as to hold the other driver at fault. Having reviewed the 
dash cam footage and listened to Mr As call, I cant say that this was an unfair or 
unreasonable decision. 
So I think UKI reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence before making 
its decision to accept liability. I can see that this was made without prejudice, so Mr A can 
pursue this further at his own cost, if he so wishes.
UKI then relied on Section 9 of the policy to repudiate the claim and cancel the policy. This 
states:
You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times.
We will not pay a claim that is in any way fraudulent false or exaggerated.
If you. any person Insured under this policy or anyone acting on your behalf attempts to 
deceive us or knowingly makes a fraudulent false or exaggerated claim:
 Your policy may be cancelled
 We may reject your claim and any subsequent claims
 We may keep any premium you have paid
I think this is a common term and condition in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it 
unusual or unreasonable. And I think it is clearly set out in the policy wording and so UKI can 
reasonably rely on it. 
So I think UKI had sufficient reason to decide that Mr A had provided a false statement about 
the accident. I cant say that UKI has acted unreasonably or unfairly in cancelling Mr As 
policy and repudiating his claim, in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. I dont 
require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman