DRN-3937154
The complaint
Mr G has made wide ranging complaints about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc treated him 
since he became its customer in 2003.
In summary, he considers that HSBC treated him unfairly in relation to his borrowing. To 
resolve his complaints, he would like HSBC to allow him to retain his familys business 
property. He would also like to pay an agreed mutually beneficial interest rate on any 
associated loans.
What happened
Mr G told us:
He is unhappy with what HSBC did when he became its customer in 2003, with the 
2009 restructure of facilities, and with various other actions HSBC took before 2012.
He reached a settlement agreement with HSBC in 2012.
In 2016 he complained to HSBC that the interest rate on the 2012 agreement had 
effectively forced him to sell a property (which I will call Property A).
In June 2019 he was made bankrupt on the application of a third party (not a member 
of the HSBC group). He does not believe that he would have entered bankruptcy in 
the first place if HSBC had treated him fairly.
As at June 2019 his outstanding HBSC loan was secured against only one property 
(which I will call Property B). HSBC appointed fixed charge receivers to deal with 
Property B, but it should not have done so. He had sufficient rental and personal 
income to cover the loan repayments, so he doesnt think the appointment of the 
receivers was necessary.
He believes that a forced sale of Property B would be detrimental to all parties, 
including HSBC. He does not think it would be reasonable for HSBC or the receivers 
to go ahead with a sale.
HSBC says his loan balance is in the region of £375,000, but it should be much 
closer to £200,000. He had already agreed new terms with one of the tenants of 
Property B, but HSBC refused to allow the tenant to renew his lease  meaning that 
the tenant moved out in March 2021, and the building was left empty. HSBC also 
refused to accept rent from a second tenant, and had it done so his indebtedness 
would have been lower.
Mr G also provided us with evidence showing that the Official Receiver has no objection to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service considering his complaints against HSBC. 
HSBC told us:
It provided Mr G with a loan in his sole name in January 2010. The loan was secured 
on both Property A and Property B, and was itself a restructure of an earlier loan 
HSBC had provided to Mr G in 2005. 
The loan balance was later reduced following property sales. Mr G made his own 
decision to sell. In particular, HSBC did not force Mr G to sell Property A, nor did it 
put any inappropriate pressure on him to do so.
Mr Gs June 2019 bankruptcy was a Termination Event as defined in its facility 
letter. As a result, it was entitled to appoint fixed charge receivers to collect rent and 
deal with the sale of the property.
Even if it were to relinquish its charge on Property B (which it is not prepared to do), 
the property would then be handed back to Mr Gs trustee in bankruptcy as it forms 
part of Mr Gs bankruptcy estate. It is not legally possible for Mr G to reclaim control 
of the property.
Our investigators findings
One of our investigators looked at Mr Gs complaints. Briefly, he said:
The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt have the legal power to consider all the 
complaints that are referred to us. If a complaint was made more than six years after 
the event complained of, or (if later) three years from the date the complainant ought 
reasonably to have become aware that they had cause for complaint, then were not 
usually able to consider it. Here, HSBC has not consented to our considering Mr Gs 
complaints out of time, and theres nothing to suggest that Mr G was unable to raise 
his concerns within time. 
That means we cannot investigate Mr Gs concerns about historic lending decisions. 
In particular, we cant look at the actions taken when he transferred his business to 
HSBC in 2003, the sale of previous properties used as security, or the 2009 
restructure of facilities.
We can look at Mr Gs complaint that the interest rate on the agreement he reached 
in 2012 left him with no option but to sell Property A, but he didnt think HSBC had 
done anything wrong. He noted that HSBC had said Mr G was involved in a long 
running dispute with another company, and that it believed other factors were 
involved. He was not persuaded that HSBCs actions were the sole reason Mr G had 
to sell Property A.
We can also look at Mr Gs complaint about HSBCs actions following his bankruptcy, 
but again he didnt think HSBC had treated Mr G unfairly. He was satisfied that the 
bankruptcy was indeed a Termination Event under the terms of Mr Gs loan, and 
therefore HSBC was entitled to appoint receivers.
HSBC did not provide any further evidence or arguments in response to our investigators 
findings.
Mr G did not deny that some of his complaints had been made outside of the relevant time 
limits, but he wanted to know why HSBC had refused to give us its consent to consider those 
issues. He noted that one of the banks values is we take responsibility, so he thought it 
would welcome the chance to reply to his complaint.In 2012 he decided to sell his business to a third party. As part of the deal, he wanted to let 
Property A to the third party  but HSBC would not allow that unless he signed a new 
agreement at a higher rate. HSBC then falsely accused him of defaulting on his obligations, 
and subsequently pressured him into reducing his liability to the bank by selling Property A.
He later became aware that HSBC had offered the third party (who was by then his tenant) a 
loan at very significantly lower rates than his own loan agreement with HSBC. The third party 
threatened to leave Property A if Mr G would not sell it to them. That left him with no option 
but to proceed with the sale, as the third partys withdrawal from the site would have affected 
his ability to make loan repayments. The sale proceeds from Property A all went towards 
reducing his loan with HSBC.
Mr G also said he had further evidence he wanted us to see, but he did not provide it by the 
deadline set by our investigator. Our investigator offered several extensions, but ultimately 
set a final deadline of 13 January 2023 and explained that Mr Gs file would be referred to an 
ombudsman on that date.
I consider that Mr G and HSBC have both had ample opportunity to provide us with all the 
evidence and documents they want us to see. 
My jurisdiction
We cant look into all complaints we receive. There are rules. These can be found in the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)s handbook and are known as the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) rules. 
One of those rules, DISP 2.8, explains the relevant time limits. In this case, I am satisfied 
that our investigator was right to say that Mr G referred some of us complaints to us too late.
HSBC has not consented to our considering the complaints Mr G referred outside of the 
relevant time limits. I know Mr G would like to understand HSBCs reasoning, but it is not 
required to provide an explanation. I see nothing to suggest that exceptional circumstances 
prevented Mr G from complaining in time  and that means his complaints about HSBCs 
actions before 2012 fall outside of my jurisdiction. I do not have the legal power to 
investigate those complaints.
So far as Mr Gs complaints about things that happened after 2012 are concerned, I can only 
look at the actions HSBC is responsible for. It is not responsible for the actions of the 
receivers, and so I cannot consider whether the receivers treated Mr G (or his family) fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to further disappoint Mr G, but there is very little I can add to what our investigator 
has already said. Looking at HSBCs actions from 2012 onwards, overall I am satisfied that it 
treated Mr G fairly.
HSBC was not required to lend money to him in 2012 (or at any other time), and if it did 
choose to lend it was entitled to choose the interest rate it wished to offer. I see nothing 
unfair in HSBC exercising its commercial discretion to offer different rates to different people 
based on its assessment of the overall circumstances of each prospective borrower.I have not seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that Mr G was forced to sell Property A 
as a result of HSBCs errors. I accept that he might have had no realistic alternative other 
than to sell Property A, but that does not mean HSBC has done anything wrong.
From HSBCs perspective, Mr Gs bankruptcy followed an extensive period of financial 
difficulty. It believes that his ability to meet his obligations was affected by a long running 
dispute with a third party. It also notes that it was not Mr Gs only creditor.
I acknowledge that Mr G believes that his bankruptcy could have been avoided if HSBC had 
acted differently, but again I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that HSBCs 
errors caused his bankruptcy.
Once Mr G had been declared bankrupt, I agree with our investigator that HSBC had the 
right to appoint receivers. It was of course open to HSBC to choose not to exercise that right 
 but I do not criticise its decision to do so. Even if the rental income on Property B had 
covered the interest costs several times over, I would still have said it was fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to appoint receivers in order to protect its own position.
I understand how strongly Mr G feels about whats happened here, but for the reasons Ive 
explained Im not going to order HSBC to pay compensation to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that:
I cannot consider Mr Gs complaints about HSBCs actions before 2012.
I can consider Mr Gs complaints about HSBCs later actions  but I do not uphold 
those complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman