DRN-3145628
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car he acquired on finance from Moneybarn No. 1 Limited was not of 
satisfactory quality.   
What happened
In February 2021 Mr M entered into a four-year conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. 
The agreement recorded that the car which was the subject of it had been first registered in 
2013 and had a cash price attached to it of £5,590. According to the dealers invoice, it had 
covered some 53,000 miles. 
Mr M has explained that the cars reversing camera wasnt working when he collected it. The 
dealership gave him £200 in recognition of that. Within a short time, he had to replace the 
cars battery, at a cost of £159. He had the front brake pads replaced at a cost of £60.
Mr M says that he also noticed issues with the cars constant-velocity (or CV) joint, a front 
wheel bearing and wheel alignment. These issues would cost over £400 to have fixed.
The dealership closed down and so Mr M contacted Moneybarn for assistance. Moneybarn 
arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The inspection noted that the front brake 
pads and battery had been replaced but did not find any fault with the wheel bearing. The 
CV joint was worn, but the inspection concluded that this was most likely to be the result of 
wear and tear. Overall, the inspection report said that, whilst there were faults, these were 
consistent with the age and mileage of the car. 
The inspection report also noted that there was a discrepancy in the cars registration 
details. The limited identity check which the inspector carried out suggested it had been first 
registered in 2017, not 2013.  
Moneybarn did not agree that the car was not of satisfactory quality, but it did transfer £250 
into Mr Ms account. It said this was in respect of the battery and its handling of the 
complaint.   
One of our investigators considered what had happened but took the view that the car had 
been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M. She thought however that 
Moneybarns handling of the complaint had not been satisfactory and recommended that 
Moneybarn pay Mr M £100 in recognition of that. Moneybarn did not respond to the 
investigators assessment. Mr M did not accept it and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the conditional sale agreement was to be read as 
including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality. That means the quality that a 
reasonable person would expect in all the circumstances  including, for example, the age, 
price and mileage of the car. 
The independent inspection report suggested that the car had been first registered in 2017, 
but the invoice and sale agreement both indicated it was 2013. Whilst there had been some 
confusion with the correct registration number, both indicated that the car was first registered 
in 2013. There seems to be no reason for the dealership to have said that a car registered in 
2017 was registered in 2013. I think it likely therefore that this car was nearly eight years old 
when Mr M acquired it. 
Taking the cars age, mileage and price into account, I would not have expected it to be 
fault-free. It would have been subject to wear and tear in a number of areas. It does not 
follow, therefore, that any fault would mean it was not of satisfactory quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act says that, if an item is found not to have been of satisfactory 
quality within six months of delivery, it is for the supplier to show that it was of satisfactory 
quality at delivery. That does not mean, however, that a defect that arises within six months 
automatically means an item was not of satisfactory quality at delivery. That depends in part 
on whether the defect is one which would mean the item is not of satisfactory quality. 
As far as the reversing camera is concerned, I note that Mr M identified this before he took 
delivery of the car and that the dealership paid him some compensation in respect of it. I 
understand that Mr M felt he had little choice but to accept that payment, but I do not believe 
it would be fair to require Moneybarn to compensate him further. I note too that Moneybarn 
has reimbursed Mr M for the cost of a new battery. I do not therefore need to consider that 
any further, since I think these issues have been fairly resolved. 
As I have indicated, the independent inspection identified some faults with the car, in 
particular with the CV joint. The engineer concluded however that the faults identified were 
related to wear and tear and maintenance and that, whilst the car was not fault free, it was in 
a condition commensurate with its age and mileage. He did not consider that Moneybarn 
was responsible for the faults he identified.       
Putting things right
The investigator thought there had been unnecessary delays in the handling of the complaint 
and recommended that Moneybarn pay Mr M a further £100 in recognition of that. I can 
make an award in recognition of any distress or material inconvenience if I determine a 
complaint in favour of the complainant. In this context, a complaint includes a complaint 
about the provision of financial services but does not include the handling of the complaint 
itself.  
I note that Mr M did not accept the investigators recommendation, and Moneybarn did not 
respond to it. 
In the circumstances, therefore, I do not propose to make an award in line with the 
investigators recommendation, but simply leave it to Moneybarn to decide whether to make 
an offer in line with that recommendation and, if it does, it is for Mr M to decide whether or 
not to accept it.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Ms complaint.    Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman