DRN-3365919
The complaint
Miss A says Gracombex Ltd (trading as The Money Platform) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about six instalment loans Gracombex provided to Miss A between 
February 2019 and May 2021. Miss As lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 18/02/2019 24/05/2019 3 £250 £139.33
2 16/08/2019 30/09/2019 2 £250 £181.00
3 09/10/2019 25/10/2019 2 £250 £181.00
4 29/11/2019 24/01/2020 2 £1,000 £724.00
5 31/01/2020 25/03/2020 2 £500 £362.00
6 10/05/2021 Outstanding 1 £500 £647.00
Our Adjudicator upheld Miss As complaint in part and thought loans four and five shouldnt 
have been given. Gracombex disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Gracombex needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss A 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Gracombex should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Gracombex was required to establish 
whether Miss A could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss As complaint.
There was a significant break in Miss As borrowing between repaying loan five and taking 
out loan six. So I think Gracombex could reasonably think that Miss As finances had 
changed in this time. And so it could treat loan six as the start of a new chain of lending and 
apply the affordability checks that were appropriate. 
Gracombex asked Miss A for information about her monthly income and outgoings and it 
carried out credit checks. Miss A said her monthly income was £2,458. She said her 
outgoings totalled about £1,720. The credit checks that Gracombex carried out for loans one 
to three and loan six didnt show anything untoward that should have prompted further 
checks.
So I think Gracombexs affordability checks for loans one to three and loan six were 
proportionate and sufficient. It looked as if Miss A could afford to sustainably repay these 
loans. And so I cant say it was wrong for Gracombex to have provided them. 
But I dont think these checks went far enough for loans four and five. By loan four, Miss A 
had been borrowing continuously for nine months. And the amount she had borrowed, and 
her monthly repayments, had increased significantly. For loan four, after making her monthly 
repayment, Miss A was left with just £22 to meet any emergencies. And I dont think this was 
sufficient.
Gracombex has provided detailed information about its affordability checks. But I think 
Gracombex should then have done better checks on Miss As financial situation to verify 
what she had told it and to check that further loans were sustainable for her. Gracombex 
could, for example, have asked to see Miss As bank statements, amongst other things, to 
verify her financial situation. 
And, as our Adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loans four and five would most 
likely have shown that Miss A was having problems managing her money. This is because 
Miss A had at least three outstanding loans with other short-term lenders when she asked 
for loan four. And she had one recent default on a short-term loan. 
So I think that if Gracombex had made better checks for loan four it would have seen that 
this loan, and any subsequent loans, were unsustainable for Miss A. And so I think it should 
have realised that it was wrong to have provided loans four and five. So Im upholding the complaint about loans four and five and Gracombex should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Gracombex should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss A from loan four, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss A may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss A in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss A would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Gracombexs liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I require Gracombex Ltd (trading as The Money Platform) to do the following:
refund all interest and charges Miss A paid on loans four and five;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
offset this refund against the balance still owing for loan six and pay Miss A anything 
remaining; or, if an amount remains outstanding, then an affordable repayment plan 
should be agreed to clear the balance;
remove any negative information about loans four and five from Miss As credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Gracombex to take off tax from this interest. Gracombex 
must give Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Miss As complaint. I 
require Gracombex Ltd (trading as The Money Platform) to carry out the redress set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman