DRN-1778548
The complaint
Mr B says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) was irresponsible to offer him a loan.
What happened
Mr B says he applied by phone for a £10,000 loan to consolidate his existing debts in April 
2019. ELL asked him to visit a branch to sign the paperwork and bring in recent bank 
statements. He says before it even reviewed his bank statements it changed its decision and 
offered a £5,000 loan. He says it then used the fact there were gambling transactions on his 
statements to justify the lower loan offer, abusing the regulatory irresponsible lending 
guidelines. He also said the lower offer was irresponsible as he needed the full £10,000 to 
consolidate his debts and any less would have left him worse off financially.
ELL says it lowered the loan value it was happy to approve after seeing Mr Bs bank 
statements. But it accepts that it shouldnt have made any offer to lend. For the 
inconvenience this caused Mr B it offered him £25 compensation.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said ELL ought not to have offered a 
reduced amount after reviewing Mr Bs bank statements, but the loan had not been 
processed so Mr B had not suffered any financial loss for him to consider. He said the £25 
was an appropriate goodwill offer in the circumstances. Mr B disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory or inconclusive, I have reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities, in other words based on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
I disagree with Mr Bs argument that ELL was irresponsible to reduce the loan offer as he 
needed £10,000 to consolidate his debt, and reduce his monthly outgoings, so it caused him 
to struggle financially. I understand it would have been frustrating as Mr B was trying to sort 
out his finances, but ELLs checks gave it concern that Mr B would not be able to sustainably 
repay this size of loan so it was entitled to decline the £10,000 application.
The parties are in dispute about when and why ELL decided to reduce its loan offer to 
£5,000 and whether it was before or after reviewing Mr Bs bank statements. Mr B feels 
strongly it was before, but ELL hasnt been able to find any evidence this was the case. Its 
account notes show it was after his documentation was reviewed. I think this is most likely 
given what we know about ELLs loan application process. However, I dont think I need to 
make a certain finding on this point as it would not change the outcome of this complaint for 
Mr B. This wasnt a loan that completed. This means that Mr B didnt suffer any loss because 
of irresponsible lending on the part of ELL. So he hasnt lost out because of the lenders 
unfair decision. My analysis would be different had the loan completed. 
ELL accepts it shouldnt have made the reduced loan offer given Mr Bs financial position. 
I understand the £25 compensation ELL offered is still available. I think this is a fair offer 
given the level of inconvenience caused to Mr B. The time he needed to spend visiting the 
branch would have been no different had ELL outright declined his application after 
reviewing his bank statements.
During our investigation Mr B also raised a concern about having difficulties setting up a 
payment arrangement for a previous loan with ELL. From the correspondence available, it 
looks like this was subsequently resolved. Our adjudicator asked that Mr B let him know if 
this was not the case. As Mr B didnt respond to this point I am assuming the issue is closed.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. If Mr B wishes to accept ELLs goodwill offer he should 
contact the lender directly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman