DRN-3570170
The complaint
Mr K complains that he was mis-advised over a buy to let mortgage product and unfairly 
refused extra borrowing with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr K wants to be compensated for the 
distress and inconvenience and the financial loss he has suffered.
What happened
Mr K applied for renewal of his mortgage product with Barclays in December 2020 and 
wanted additional borrowing of £65,000 for improvements on his buy to let property. Mr Ks 
existing mortgage product would expire on 31 January 2021. A formal assessment was 
conducted for additional borrowing and he got a provisional acceptance. Then whilst 
processing the application in early January, a Barclays advisor told Mr K that due to a banks 
internal system issue, he would have to wait until his mortgage product expired in February 
2021, when Barclays would change his record to the new system and then he could apply 
for additional borrowing. Mr K says that he raised concerns and enquired about the risks for 
doing this but was given assurance by the advisor that the borrowing will be successful as 
he had been given provisional acceptance.
But when Mr K moved to the new product early Feb 2021, the additional borrowing 
application was refused. When Mr K asked why he was told that this was due to affordability. 
The mortgage advisor gave Mr K detailed information only after the refusal. Mr K enquired 
about the financial information recorded on the application, as he believed that Barclays had 
not recorded the correct salary and bonus on the application. But the advisor refused to 
update and said that he was already above the required income level. Mr K says he was 
advised by the mortgage advisor that he would be able to switch to a new product as he was 
within the 15 days cooling off period but when he applied to move from the product the bank 
decided not to revoke the product and he would be forced to pay a £10,400 early repayment 
charge (ERC), if he wanted to move to another product.
Barclays says at the time of Mr Ks application it offered two options to Mr K. Firstly he could 
complete a rate switch on his mortgage to a five-year rate of 2.45% and then complete an 
application for a further advance. Alternatively, Mr K could let his mortgage go onto the 
standard variable rate (SVR) and then the rate switch could take place. It said that a buy to 
let mortgage is non-advised and Mr K completed the rate switch before making the further 
advance application. But the further advance application then failed due to affordability. 
Barclays didnt believe that it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She felt that Barclays 
mortgage adviser told Mr K that affordability was fine and may have been unaware that 
further lending couldnt be given on the old system. The mortgage adviser had told Mr K that 
she asked for the mortgage product to be revoked but this didnt appear to have been 
actioned. Our investigators view was that if Mr K had known affordability would have been 
an issue that he would have gone to another lender to secure additional borrowing and not 
committed to a fixed product with an ERC. Our investigator recommended that Barclays 
either revoke the product or waive the ERC and pay Mr K £250 for his distress and 
inconvenience. Barclays accepted our investigators findings and whilst it couldnt revoke the 
rate applied said that it would refund any ERC payable if Mr K moved to another lender. Mr 
K disagreed and believed that the compensation should be increased as certain issues 
werent considered by our investigator. 
The complaint was reviewed, and a new investigator recommend further compensation to 
reflect the differences between the five-year products - of £48.38 per month - that Mr K could 
have chosen and £350 to reflect Mr Ks upset. Our investigator also asked Barclays to 
provide Mr K with a two-month period to allow him to exit the mortgage if he wished. 
Barclays accepted this recommendation. Mr K disagreed saying is summary that £350 
doesnt reflect the size of the error that Barclays made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a substantial file which Ive read carefully. I will not be referring to every point that 
was made in the course of the complaint but concentrating on the significant parts of the 
complaint. But I thank Mr K and the bank for the information they provided to allow me to 
come to a fair decision.
Our investigator reached the conclusion that Barclays was at fault in this complaint by giving 
Mr K to understand that if he fixed a rate on his existing mortgage and then applied for 
further borrowing that the application would be successful. Although Mr K fixed a rate on his 
existing borrowing, Barclays refused him the additional borrowing. So, Mr K had a problem 
being tied into a fixed rate product for five years and having to pay an ERC if he wanted to 
exit and get the additional borrowing. I note that in its email to us that Barclays accepts our 
investigators conclusions. Two issues appear to remain. Firstly, did Barclays act fairly in 
refusing the additional borrowing and secondly what compensation would be due to Mr K 
because of Barclays error.
To test whether Barclays refusal of the additional borrowing was fair we obtained further 
information from Barclays. I note that Mr K felt that the application was failed because 
Barclays hadnt considered all his income including his bonus. Barclays completed for us an 
affordability assessment on Mr K based on all his income and commitments on the 
assumption Mr K received his annual bonus, but the calculation showed that the case would 
fail Barclays personal solvency review. So, I consider that Barclays refusal of the additional 
borrowing was fair.
The other issue is to put Mr K in the position he would have been had Barclays not 
misinformed him about how they would treat the application. On the basis that he would 
obtain additional borrowing and so increase the LTV Barclays offered Mr K a fixed rate of 
2.45% rather than the lower rate of 2.25% fixed for five years. The alternative for Mr K would 
have been to go elsewhere for the additional borrowing but the documentary evidence 
produced by Mr K indicates that the lowest rates available for a five year fix with the 
additional borrowing would be 2.69% assuming that the lender would lend the amount that 
Mr K would want to borrow. Mr K says that he could have moved to a cheaper two-year fix 
with Barclays, but it was clearly Mr Ks preference to have a fixed rate for five years. So, I 
believe that an appropriate amount of compensation for this is the financial loss Mr K 
suffered by being on the 2.45% mortgage product rather than the 2.25% one for the five-year 
period. The difference between these is a monthly payment of £48.38 and that should be 
refunded for the period of the fixed rate.Mr K also says that as he was refused the extra borrowing, he could not complete the works 
he intended to do with the extra borrowing as the costs of doing these has increased. Mr K 
wants to be compensated for the inflation in material costs as result of Barclays error. There 
is an issue as to whether the substantial inflation in material costs was a reasonably 
foreseeable consequence of Barclays making this error. Its one thing to say that material 
costs have risen but another to say that both parties would have realised when they were 
doing the deal that if Barclays caused an error that it should be held liable for the inflation in 
building materials.   
But in any case, Ive seen no compelling evidence that Mr K would have been able to obtain 
the borrowing that he needed for the work elsewhere. As that is the case, I cant say that Mr 
K lost out because of inflation as Im not convinced that he could have got a loan of this 
money from another lender before prices began to rise. I note that our investigator view was 
similar and in the intervening period Mr K has produced no further supporting evidence. So, I 
dont agree that Mr K should be compensated for the rise in the cost of materials to complete 
the work.
That said I believe that Barclays error caused Mr K a degree of distress and inconvenience. 
Our role is not to punish a bank for its errors but to compensate Mr K for the impact this 
would have on him. So, the degree of error that the bank makes isnt the significant factor 
but the impact on Mr K. I recognise that Mr K must have been disappointed with Barclays 
failure to provide the additional borrowing that he expected to get and the inconvenience thar 
this would have caused him. Although Mr K has had an unfortunate time with family 
bereavements and other issues, he is a person involved in business and banking who would 
be expected to deal with a certain level of inconvenience and the ups and downs of 
business. I have to assess what the level of that disappointment and inconvenience would 
be. My view is that compensation of £350 is fair in the circumstances. I can see that Mr K 
has spent a lot of time in processing this complaint, but we dont usually provide 
compensation for that time.
As I say above, I also agree that Barclays should refund the difference between the 2.25% 
five-year mortgage product and the 2.45% mortgage product which I believe is £48.38 per 
month. Mr K should have the opportunity to exit the mortgage product within a two-month 
window without payment of the ERC.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr K compensation of £350. 
In addition, it should compensate Mr K for the £48.38 that Mr K pays each month during the 
five-year term of the fixed product that represents the difference between the 2.25% product 
and the 2.45% product. In respect of payments already made, Barclays should refund those 
monthly excess payments together with interest at 8% simple pa from when the payments 
were made until they were refunded. If HMRC requires Barclays to deduct tax from this 
interest it should give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he requests 
it. Barclays should reduce the future monthly payments during the five-year period by 
£48.38. 
If in the two months following the date of this decision, Mr K redeems his mortgage to take 
advantage of a similar mortgage with another lender, Barclays should not charge Mr K an 
ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman