DRN-3576773
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy about the service he received from BUPA Insurance Limited
What happened
Mr W holds a private medical insurance policy with BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA).  
In early 2020, Mr W was diagnosed with cancer and started treatment under the NHS. In 
July 2020, he was told he needed radiotherapy and a treatment plan was being arranged, 
again through the NHS.
During July 2020, Mr W got in touch with BUPA. He wanted to know what BUPA could do for 
him during his treatment under the NHS. He explained hed been a BUPA member for 
several years, with a high level of cover. He wanted BUPA to step in and help him. BUPAs 
adviser explained the process for having his treatment covered under his policy. She talked 
about having a consultation with a BUPA recognised consultant who would agree a plan for 
his care.  
During this call, Mr W expressed concern that his policy was not going to deliver much. He 
also though the balance between what his policy offered him and his treatment under the 
NHS was vague. Because the adviser was not medically qualified, she arranged a call with 
one of BUPAs oncology nurses that took place the following day. 
The oncology nurse explained that it was a personal choice for Mr W.  If he wanted to 
continue his treatment under the NHS, his BUPA policy included NHS cash benefit; a 
payment for having his treatment under the NHS rather than under his insurance policy. The 
nurse went on to explain that radiotherapy treatment is the same, if its provided through the 
NHS or paid for under his BUPA policy, as there are set clinical standards for cancer 
treatment. She also gave Mr W some advice about troubling symptoms he was experiencing 
due to his on-going treatment.
Mr W remained unhappy. He wasnt satisfied his policy was providing him with any 
advantage. He asked for his concerns to be raised with BUPAs customer services team. He 
subsequently asked for three quarters of his premium to be refunded or, alternatively, to pay 
a nominal sum for the next three years. BUPA didnt agree.
Mr W continued to be unhappy with BUPAs responses and referred his complaint to this 
Service. He didnt think BUPA had provided any material assistance to him during his cancer 
journey and that BUPA failed to connect him with a specific radiotherapy centre to have his 
treatment. He said the form he needed to complete to claim cash benefit payments was 
unworkable because it required an electronic signature from the treating NHS hospital.  He 
didnt think it was reasonable to expect the NHS to pay for the electronic subscription service 
he thought was needed. He was also unhappy the form didnt have a specific place for him 
to submit his transport costs.
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt uphold Mr Ws concerns. 
In her opinion, she said she wasnt satisfied Mr W had asked to have his treatment covered 
under his BUPA policy or specifically mentioned the radiotherapy treatment centre hed 
referred to in his correspondence with us.  
And although Mr W was unhappy about the cost of his policy, she was satisfied Mr W had 
had the benefit of his policy, having claimed cash benefit payments in line with the policy 
terms. She also noted BUPA had gone over and above the policy benefits by agreeing to 
fund transport costs to take Mr W to and from hospital for his treatment, as well as two 
months cover, premium free.
Finally, she didnt think the NHS cash benefit claim form was unworkable. She was satisfied 
BUPA were flexible in accepting forms signed by hand and posted to them.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators findings and so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the obligations placed upon BUPA by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) as detailed in the Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook.
ICOBS 8.1.1 states:
An insurer must:
(1) Handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) Provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;
(3) Not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
(4)Settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed
Ive also considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy with BUPA as this information 
forms the basis of the contract between the parties.
There are several matters Mr W is unhappy with. They are well known to the parties, so I 
intend to focus my decision on what I consider key to my outcome. That isnt intended as a 
discourtesy but reflects the less formal nature of our Service.
Whilst I have every sympathy for Mr Ws situation, having reviewed all the evidence provided 
to me and listened to phone calls between Mr W and BUPA, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator and for largely the same reasons.  Let me explain.
Did BUPA provide reasonable guidance about making a claim?
Having listened to the calls and reviewed the correspondence between Mr W and BUPA, I 
dont find BUPA failed to give him the guidance he was entitled to. BUPAs representatives 
could only give him general guidance about claiming on his policy and some of the benefits 
available to him when he got in touch. BUPA didnt have access to Mr Ws NHS records so I think it was understandable it couldnt go through his treatments line by line as hed wanted.
The cancer care centre Mr W has referred to is several miles from his home. BUPA 
explained to our investigator, it wouldnt have been likely to suggest it without prompting 
from Mr W due to the distance involved. I havent been provided with any evidence to show 
Mr W referred to the centre specifically in his contact with BUPA in July 2020.
Mr W has said hed have been happy to travel a distance for his treatment, but from the 
information provided to me, I cant say Mr W asked BUPA about treatment facilities or to 
transfer his care to the private sector. He asked questions about the benefits of his policy. 
He often asked, what can BUPA do for me or what advantage does my BUPA policy give 
me?. In his call with the BUPA oncology nurse he refers generally to his location and the 
hospitals nearby.
Based on everything Ive seen Im satisfied the information BUPA gave to Mr W was 
reasonable and in line with the generic nature of the questions he asked about his policy.
Policy value
Mr W has questioned the value of his BUPA policy when the radiotherapy treatment hed 
have received privately was the same treatment hed receive on the NHS. BUPAs oncology 
nurse explained to Mr W that radiotherapy treatment is of the same standard regardless of 
the service provider. In that call, the BUPA nurse explained to Mr W that he could choose to 
have his treatment provided privately under his policy, rather than the NHS if he wanted to. 
But he should discuss that with his consultant. I appreciate Mr W was told that even under 
his private insurance cover, his radiotherapy might take place in an NHS hospital, if that was 
the most appropriate location for him. But the oncology nurse also explained having his 
cancer treatment under his policy would mean hed be seen by the same consultant and 
have access to cancer drugs that might not be available under the NHS. 
I dont think having radiotherapy treatment under his policy, in an NHS hospital if that was 
the right location, necessarily means Mr Ws policy didnt provide him with any additional 
benefit over and above NHS care. Although Mr W chose to have his cancer treatment 
through the NHS, he was still able to gain some benefit from his policy. He claimed NHS 
cash benefit payments and BUPA agreed to cover his transport costs to and from hospital. 
His transport costs were covered over and above his policy terms. BUPA also offered him 
two months cover free of charge. Because of this, I cant agree Mr W hasnt had value from 
his policy. Its important to say that BUPA is entitled to retain policy premiums even if no 
claims are made. Thats because the premium is paid to BUPA for covering the risk of a 
claim, not just actual claims.
Submitting a claim
Mr W is also unhappy that to claim for NHS cash benefit he had to ask his NHS hospital to 
electronically sign his claim form. I understand why that might have seemed frustrating.  
BUPA has said it introduced electronic signatures to avoid members taking unnecessary 
trips to hospital during the pandemic. But has also confirmed the form can be accepted 
without an electronic signature or printed off, signed, and posted. This was confirmed to Mr 
W in a call in September 2020 and in BUPAs letter to Mr W in October 2020  so Im 
satisfied BUPA has alternative processes in place if adding an electronic signature makes 
submitting a claim difficult.
Ive also considered Mr Ws complaint that the claim form doesnt have a specific place to 
claim for his transport costs. Given that BUPA had made an exceptional agreement to cover these costs for him, I understand why he might have been unhappy about not finding an 
obvious space on the form to add the details. Again, BUPA has said its possible to add 
additional claim details to an additional sheet  or to email the details into their office.  I 
understand Mr W might not be happy with BUPAs position on these matters, but I think 
BUPAs willingness to accept the claim form and claim information in alternative formats 
meets the test of reasonableness laid down in ICOBS 8.1.1.
Its clear from the communication Ive seen that Mr W is deeply unhappy with BUPA. I 
understand being diagnosed with, and having treatment, for cancer must have been very 
worrying for him. But based on everything Ive seen Im satisfied BUPAs considered his 
concerns and provided the information hes asked for. There was one occasion when a 
promised call back didnt happen. BUPA acknowledged its mistake and paid Mr W £150.00 
compensation, which in my opinion is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking BUPA Insurance 
Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman