DRN-1664480
 
complaint
Mr K says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr K took out a regular premium PPI policy when he took out a credit card in 2002. He told 
us he applied for the card and PPI by post. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland plc had to make it clear to Mr K that the PPI was optional and that he had 
to choose to take it out. So Ive looked at the copy of his credit card application that Bank of 
Scotland plc has given us. I can see theres a section of this form for payment protection. It 
directs Mr K to sign for the PPI if he wanted it. Mr K has signed the box in favour of PPI. So, 
I think Mr K would have been aware that PPI was optional and I think he agreed to take it 
out, even though he doesnt remember doing so now, many years later. 
Bank of Scotland plc says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K, so it didnt need to make 
sure that the policy was suitable for him. However, Bank of Scotland plc still had to give Mr K 
clear enough information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland plc gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But I dont think better information would have resulted in Mr K making a 
different decision about PPI. I explain why I say that below.
Mr K was eligible for the cover and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the key 
exclusions from or limitations to the policy, for example, any unusual employment terms or 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr K could have found the policy useful. Mr K said he was entitled to some sick pay but it 
seems this would not have lasted longer than six months (only three months at his full rate of 
pay). And Mr K told us he had no other means he could have relied on in that circumstance, 
or if he lost his job.  But upon a successful claim, if Mr K lost his job or became too ill to work, the policy would 
have paid out 10% of his balance for up to 12 months for any one claim. And it would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay he would have received from his employer and for 
significantly longer than his full pay entitlement. So, overall, I think he could have found the 
policy useful.  
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
I have looked at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator, and set out above, I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund everything Mr K paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Mr K back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman