DRN-3315242
The complaint
Mr N complained because Metro Bank PLC refused to refund him for transactions he said he 
didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr N was in prison from July 2018, with a conditional release date of July 2021 and a licence 
expiry date of July 2024.
Mr N rang Metro on 6 July 2019. The phone call recording shows that Mr N said he wanted 
to change his address. He explained that he was in prison, and said his card was at home. 
This caused some difficulties with passing security, but the adviser said he recognised he 
couldnt send Mr N to a store to sort it out. So he checked with a specialist team, and was 
able to go ahead with giving Mr N information about his current balance, which was £77.42 
in debit. Mr N asked for his transactions going back to July 2018. The Metro adviser went 
through all the credits, and also added up all the debits. He told Mr N that the debits totalled 
£12,721.51 up to mid-April 2019, which was the last date there had been any transactions 
on the account. Mr N thanked the adviser, and asked how to change his address to the 
prison address.
In July 2021, after hed been released on licence, Mr N rang Metro. He said that hed lost his 
card when hed been taken straight from court to prison. He wanted a refund for all the 
payments which had come out of his account since July 2018. But he didnt pass the security 
questions, so the adviser told him to go to a branch. Mr N did that. He said he hadnt 
authorised the 2018-2019 transactions, because hed been in prison and didnt have his 
debit card at the time.
Metro refused to refund Mr N for the disputed transactions. In its final response to his 
complaint, Metro said that there was a 13 month timescale for reporting transactions, and Mr 
N had reported them too late.
Mr N wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said he hadnt had his card, 
because hed left it in the car when going to court in 2018, and had been taken straight to 
prison from the court. He said his partner had taken the car home and would have had the 
card.
Mr N also told this service that hed phoned Metro, but it had told him to visit a branch which 
he couldnt do. He said hed phoned Metro three or four times to ask it to freeze his Metro 
account, but it had refused, every time saying hed have to go to a branch with identification. 
Mr N said he hadnt given his PIN to anyone and didnt know who had made the 
transactions. He wanted a refund, which he said was for around £19,000.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. She noted that most of the disputed 
transactions were cash withdrawals and purchases, which were in line with the transactions 
before Mr N had gone to prison. Mr N had said his partner had had the card, so it was 
plausible that she could have done the transactions. And the investigator noted that Mr NN 
had said hed had a child born when he was in prison  and some of the transactions were 
for a retailer specialising in maternity and childcare products. The investigator thought it was 
likely Mr N would have consented to his partner using the card for expenses for their child. 
The investigator also pointed out that Mr N hadnt disputed the transactions when hed 
phoned Metro on 6 July 2019. And she explained that the rules say that if a consumer has 
allowed a third party to appear as if they have the authority to make the payments, those 
transactions would count as authorised even if the consumer hadnt asked them to be made, 
or known about them. So the investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N didnt agree. He said he hadnt given his PIN to anyone, and hadnt authorised anyone 
to use his card. He said the car in which hed left the card was parked outside his partners 
flat and had later been sold. Mr N also said hed phoned Metro and asked it to freeze his 
account, and it hadnt done so. Mr N provided another number from which he said hed 
phoned Metro.
Metro checked its systems and said it hadnt had any phone calls from Mr N on the extra 
number hed provided. It also said Mr Ns branch hadnt received any letters from him.
Our investigator rang Mr N to tell him this. Mr N then said that his PIN had been written on 
his unlocked phone, which hed also left in the car when he went into court. Mr N asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in 2018 and 2019 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSR). 
Section 74 (1) of these regulations says that:
A payment service user [the customer] is entitled to redress  only if it notifies the payment 
service provider [the bank] without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 months 
after the debit date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed 
payment transaction.
Payment service providers also have to set out this provision in the terms and conditions of 
the account. Ive checked, and Metro does this. Section 5.9 of its terms and conditions says:
 You should tell us immediately if you  become aware of any unauthorised transaction or 
failed or incorrect payment on your account. If you become aware of any suspect or unusual 
transactions and fail to tell us as soon as you are able to, and in any event no later than 13 
months after the date any transaction was taken from your account (or, in the case of a 
failed payment, ought to have been taken from your account, it may affect your right to have 
the errors corrected and may mean that we are not responsible for any loss or damage you 
may suffer.
What this means for Mr Ns complaintThe effect of the rules Ive mentioned above is that Mr N had 13 months from the date of 
each transaction to have raised this with Metro. The transactions Mr N is disputing started on 
6 July 2018 and continued until mid April 2019.
As the last disputed payment took place in April 2019, in order to meet the requirements of 
the regulations, Mr N would have had to have told Metro that he disputed the last of the 
payments by the end of May 2020 (and by an earlier date for the earlier payments).
Theres a disagreement about when Mr N first disputed these transactions with Metro. Mr N 
said he phoned and wrote to Metro several times while he was in prison, asking Metro to 
freeze the account. Metro said it had no letters or phone calls from Mr N, apart from the call 
on 6 July 2019. It sent us the phone call recording for that call, and Ive listened to it.
At the start of that call, Mr N asked to change his address and told the adviser that he was in 
prison. He didnt say hed phoned before, or that hed written letters. There was some delay 
while security was sorted out, but the adviser was helpful and consulted a specialist team to 
try to deal with the difficulties of not being able to ask Mr N to go to a branch with ID. And the 
adviser did get past this problem, and spent a long time going through the transactions with 
Mr N, who repeated the details individually as if he was writing them down. I note that this 
included the adviser telling Mr N that the debits totalled £12,721.51. But Mr N didnt dispute 
the debits, just  thanked the adviser and the call ended with a further discussion of changing 
the address.
So by 6 July 2019, Mr N was aware of all the debits and he didnt dispute them at this stage.
Ive considered whether I think its likely that Mr N wrote, or rang, Metro between then and 
the end of May 2020. I consider its unlikely. If Mr N hadnt known about or been happy 
about the payments, I think hed have complained soon after the call when he was told that 
£12,721.51 had been withdrawn. And I also think that, if Mr N had indeed then phoned or 
written to Metro before the end of May 2020, hed have chased Metro, keeping written 
evidence, not waited until he contacted Metro in July 2021.
And the phone recordings from when Mr N rang Metro in July 2021 dont start off by Mr N 
saying hed been trying for over a year to dispute all the many transactions totalling 
thousands of pounds. Theyre about administrative matters, such as saying hed lost his card 
while in prison. If Mr N had genuinely tried many times to tell Metro that he disputed the 
transactions, I think this would at least have been mentioned in the July 2021 call.
So I find that its more likely than not that Mr N didnt dispute the transactions until July 2021. 
Ive taken everything Mr N has told us into account  especially given that his circumstances 
here (in particular being in prison) mean that it would have doubtless been more difficult than 
usual for him to be able to have raised this with Metro. But, in the individual circumstances 
here  its clear to me that he was aware of the transactions as of July 2019 and that he 
didnt dispute them for some time after that. And when he did dispute them, he only did so 
over 13 months after they had been made.
That means that I dont think the position Metro has taken here is unreasonable. Mr N was 
aware of the transactions here and the overall timescale in which to raise a dispute is 
contained in the terms and conditions of the account here. That means that I think its fair for 
Metro to have not refunded him here. Ive also considered whether there are any grounds to 
consider that it might be fair and reasonable to say that Section 59 of the PSRs shouldnt 
apply here. But for the reasons Ive given above, I dont think there are.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman