DRN-3047812
The complaint
Miss P complains about Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) under her 
motor insurance policy. Shes unhappy that AA reduced her No Claims Discount (NCD) 
following a claim for an accident.
What happened
In September 2020 Miss Ps car was damaged in a car park. No details were left by the 
other party, so Miss P contacted AA to make a claim. AA accepted the claim and settled it. 
But because the other party hadnt been identified, AA werent able to pursue recovery of the 
costs. This in turn meant that the claim was recorded as a fault claim against Miss P. AA 
subsequently told Miss P that, because she had made a fault claim, and she hadnt 
protected her NCD, they were going to reduce her NCD entitlement from ten years to four 
years at her next policy renewal (March 2021).
Unhappy at this, Miss P complained to AA, who rejected her complaint. In their final 
response letter, they said that when Miss P took out her policy in February 2020, she was 
given clear information about the impact of making a claim (where NCD wasnt protected) so 
was able to decide whether to protect her NCD. As Miss P didnt protect her NCD, AA said 
they didnt have to provide her with the step back rule (how a claim affected NCD). AA said 
that the policy indicated that the step back rule varied by individual insurer, which for Ms Ps 
policy was that for nine or more years NCD a claim meant the step back would be four years 
(that is, the NCD would be reduced to four years).
 
Miss P then complained to this service. The main part of her complaint was that AA shouldnt 
have reduced her NCD from ten years to four years when her renewal became due. She 
didnt think that the terms of her policy allowed AA to do this. Miss P asked that her NCD 
should only be reduced by two years (to eight years).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that Miss P had been provided with 
enough information when taking out the policy about the impact on NCD from making a 
claim, both with and without protected NCD. As she was aware of the impact, AA hadnt 
acted unfairly towards Miss P, either when taking out the policy or subsequently when 
reducing her NCD following her claim.
Miss P disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. Miss P thought that the information on the impact of a claim on NCD should 
be included within the policy, not in a link at the time the policy was taken out, given the 
importance of the information. She also restated her view that it was unfair for AA to reduce 
her NCD to four years, saying it would normally be reduced by two years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AA have acted fairly towards Miss P.
The main part of Miss Ps complaint is that AA shouldnt have reduced her NCD from ten 
years to four years following her claim. She feels that she wasnt made sufficiently aware of 
the impact that a claim would have on her NCD (and that the detailed information should 
have been provided in the policy document rather than in a hyperlink when the policy was 
taken out). Also, that she would have expected a reduction of two years for a claim.
On main element of her complaint, Miss P pointed to wording in her policy booklet about 
NCD. Under Section 9: NO CLAIM DISCOUNT the policy states:
AA operate a panel of insurers and each insurer applies their own individual No 
Claim Discount scale... 
If a claim has been made or arisen under this insurance in any one period of 
insurance Your No Claim Discount will be reduced at the next renewal in accordance 
with the Insurers step back scale applicable at the time of renewal (usually to the 
equivalent of 0, 1 or 2 years) subject to any No Claim Discount Protection condition 
that may apply to this  insurance.
Ive considered the wording of this section carefully. I agree that it doesnt specifically say, 
for Miss Ps insurer, what the reduction in NCD would be if a claim were made. That is, it 
doesnt include the insurers step back scale. While thats the case, its clear that the 
reduction will be in accordance with the insurers step back scale and that this will vary 
between insurers. Miss P interpreted the phrase usually to the equivalent of 0,1 or 2 years 
to mean that the reduction in NCD would be up to two years. But the wording is that the 
reduction would usually be to [the equivalent of 0, 1 or 2 years]. So, 0, 1 or 2 years would be 
the level to which NCD would be reduced after a claim. Not by [0,1 or 2 years], which is 
what Miss P took it to be. AA have confirmed that the former interpretation is what the policy 
term means. On this basis, I think Miss P misunderstood the impact of a claim, rather than 
the wording being unclear.
AA also provided evidence that, when she took out her policy (which she did online), she 
would have been able to view information illustrating the impact of one (or more) claims in 
the next 12 months, both with and without NCD protection. Ive looked at this information 
carefully. It shows that (without NCD protection) if a policyholder had one claim in the period, 
the NCD at the following renewal would be reduced to three years (if the policyholder had 
nine or more years NCD before the claim). For comparison, the information shows that (for 
the same amount of NCD before the claim) one claim in the period would mean the NCD 
would remain at nine years. Ive concluded that this makes the impact of a claim on NCD 
clear, both with and without NCD protection.
Miss P argues that this information should have been included in the policy documents 
rather than (as a hyperlink) within the process when the policy was taken out. Ive 
considered this point carefully, but I dont agree. I think its reasonable that consumers are 
provided with the information about a policy and its terms at the point at which they are 
considering whether to take out a policy. In this case, the information available to Miss P 
would have enabled her to make an informed choice about whether she wanted to protect 
her NCD. In this case, she decided not to include NCD protection in her policy. Having 
provided the information as part of the process through which the policy was taken out, AA 
didnt then include it again in the policy documents. Industry guidelines provide that insurers 
dont have to provide information again if it has already been provided. I dont think this is unreasonable. Overall, I think AA provided the information for her to make an informed 
choice, so Ive concluded that they acted fairly and reasonably.
 
Looking at both these aspects, Ive also noted that the policy wording indicated that a claim 
(where NCD wasnt protected) would usually lead to NCD being reduced to 0, 1 or 2 years. 
Also, the information available when Miss P took out her policy showing that (without NCD 
protection) if a policyholder had one claim in the period, the NCD at the following renewal 
would be reduced to three years. Both scenarios indicate a reduction in NCD to a level 
below that to which AA actually reduced Miss Ps NCD (four years).
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded that AA acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Miss P in reducing her NCD to four years following her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman