DRN-2623395
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy to protect their joint mortgage in July 1999. The 
mortgage started sometime earlier in February 1997.
Mr and Mrs M paid a monthly amount of £20.80 for the policy. This covered them for £200 
each, so if either one of them was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant  they 
would receive their share of the policy benefit for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. Having done so, I wont be 
upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that the policy was optional. And it had to 
get their consent before it added PPI to their account. Santander says it would have done 
this, but Mr and Mrs M say they werent aware they had the policy. 
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide the point of 
sale documentation. And what Mr and Mrs M have said isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold their complaint. Particularly as their main complaint is that they werent aware 
of the policy, but phone call records indicate Mr M called the insurer to cancel the policy in 
2001  around the time their mortgage ended. So, it appears as though Mr and Mrs M were 
aware of the policy a long time ago and while it was still active.
Weve seen a number of examples of the paperwork Santander used around the time 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy was sold. And from what I know, usually, Santander gave its 
customers an option to take out PPI. So, without more information, I think its more likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs M would have known the policy was optional. 
The premiums would have been charged separately. And Ive seen a copy of a welcome 
letter the insurer sent to Mr and Mrs M shortly after the policy was set up, which confirms the 
details of the policy. So, if Mr and Mrs M didnt know what the premiums were for, or what 
the welcome letter related to, I would have expected them to have raised this with Santander 
much sooner. 
Overall, considering everything, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M were 
aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time. The 
sale took place some 21 years ago, so its understandable if Mr and Mrs M dont remember 
this now.
Mr and Mrs M cant remember whether they received any advice, but Santander has treated 
the sale as though they did, and I think thats fair. Giving advice puts more responsibility on 
Santander  it means it had to check it was suitable for them. So, Ive considered the case 
on the basis that advice was given and having done so, the policy appears to have been 
right for them. I say this because Mr and Mrs M were eligible for the policy and they dont 
appear to have been affected by any of the terms which might have made it harder for them 
to claim on the policy, such as having a pre-existing medical condition or unusual 
employment circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs M say they were both entitled to at least six months sick pay from their 
employers. They also said they had less than three months other means they could have 
used to make their repayments. Ive thought about this carefully, but the policy would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr and Mrs M received and potentially for longer. They 
could also have made repeat claims subject to a requalification period. So, I think the PPI 
could have been useful to Mr and Mrs M if they fell on hard times. 
Mr and Mrs M havent provided any further detail about their other means. But considering 
that they only had a small amount and the PPI would have enabled them to use their other 
means for any other financial commitments they may have had at what could be a difficult 
time  I dont think this means the policy wasnt right for them.
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs M at the 
time it was taken. And it could have been cancelled at any time without penalty. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think Santander was wrong to recommend the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs M.
Santander also had to give Mr and Mrs M enough information about the policy, so they could 
decide whether to take it or not. Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs M all of the 
other information they needed. But I can see the cost and benefit was set out in the welcome 
letter dated shortly after the policy started. I dont know if the PPI cost and benefits were 
made clear before then, but Mr and Mrs M chose to take out the cover when they didnt have 
to, so they seem to have wanted it. And for same reasons as I think the policy was suitable 
for them, I dont think better information about the terms of the policy would have put them 
off taking it.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Mr and Mrs Ms home. 
And the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I 
think the policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs M and I dont think their PPI was mis-
sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman