DRN-4004098
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money she lost when she was a victim of a 
scam. 
Mrs S is represented by a firm that Ill refer to as C.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In late 2022 Mrs S contacted a well-known and popular investor on a social media platform 
that offered mentoring programmes. After receiving a response, Mrs S asked for a few days 
to consider whether she wanted to proceed with the one-to-one training. A couple of days 
later Mrs S received a follow request from what appeared at the time to be the same social 
media account. The person (scammer) contacting her however was impersonating the 
genuine account  with an almost identical username.
The scammer convinced Mrs S to invest and assisted her in setting up an account with a 
legitimate crypto exchange as well as a profile with the investment platform. After seeing 
profits from the initial investment, the scammer was told she had to pay various fees to 
release the money. These payments were made via legitimate crypto exchanges. The 
relevant payments are:
Date Type Payee Amount
24 November 2022 Debit card transaction Crypto Exchange A £200
25 November 2022 Debit card transaction Crypto Exchange A £800
25 November 2022 Debit card transaction Crypto Exchange A £2,500
26 November 2022 Debit card transaction Crypto Exchange B £4,300
26 November 2022 Debit card transaction Crypto Exchange B £550
26 November 2022 Debit card transaction Crypto Exchange B £2,000
27 November 2022 Debit card transaction Crypto Exchange C £350
Total: £10,700
Mrs S received credits into her account, of £66.09 and £72, on 24 and 30 November 2022 
respectively. 
C complained to Revolut, on behalf of Mrs S, on 5 December 2022 saying these payments 
were made as part of an investment scam. They considered Revolut failed in their duty of 
care to protect Mrs S from it by not identifying the above payments as unusual and 
suspicious, thereby warranting further investigation and enquiries. C said, had such 
enquiries been made, Revolut wouldve become aware that Mrs S was likely the unfortunate 
victim of a scam. And upon being appropriately warned of the risks involved, Mrs S wouldnt 
have proceeded with making the payments but instead, she wouldve sought to establish 
whether the investment opportunity was genuine. Because of this, C wanted Revolut to 
reimburse Mrs S her loss from the scam. 
Revolut didnt uphold the complaint. They said they were actively trying to assist Mrs S and 
attempted to contact her via their in-app chat, as part of their investigation, but she didnt 
respond. And they would need further information from Mrs S to start their investigation and 
attempts to recover funds. Revolut requested Mrs S contact them to provide the necessary 
information and added that theyre acting in accordance with regulatory requirements. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but she didnt think Revolut had to do anything 
further. In short, she said:
She didnt think the payments were particularly unusual or suspicious to Revolut, 
thereby requiring them to intervene before processing them. This was because the 
account was newly opened and so there wasnt any account history to evidence 
Mrs Ss typical spending  which makes it more difficult for firms to identify when a 
customer is at risk of financial harm from fraud.
Making payments to new payees on a new account isnt reason enough for Revolut 
to have intervened, as a new account would likely involve payments to new payees. 
She also didnt think the transactions were so large that Revolut shouldve intervened 
without the benefit of Mrs Ss typical spending history. And, while there were multiple 
payments for crypto purposes over a few days, by the time Mrs S made the larger 
payments  such as the £4,300  her typical account usage involved making 
payments involving crypto. So, given the payments didnt flag as suspicious and 
Mrs S didnt speak with Revolut when making the payments, she didnt think Revolut 
missed an opportunity to prevent the loss suffered.  
Although some banks have decided not to let their customers make payments to the 
crypto exchange, this doesnt mean all consumers using it are at risk of being 
scammed. And its Revoluts discretion as to whether to they allow this or not.
Electronic Money Institutions (EMI)  like Revolut  werent involved in the creation of 
the British Standards Institution (BSI) code (PAS 17271). And so, there are different 
obligations between EMIs and banks as to when they should intervene to protect 
customers from financial harm from fraud. 
Its not unusual for consumers to use EMIs differently to current accounts with banks. 
This includes, as happened here, money being paid into the account before being 
used for the crypto payments. So, she didnt think the payments were remarkable 
enough to stand out to Revolut given that nothing else about them differed from how 
other customers typically use EMIs. 
She thought it was reasonable for Revolut not to raise chargeback claims on the 
payments as she didnt think there were reasonable prospects of success. This was 
because the claims wouldve been against the crypto exchange and trading platforms 
for which she received a service  that being the purchase of crypto. 
C disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, they said:
They consider the payments made from the newly opened Revolut account shouldve 
been recognised as suspicious according to the BSI code. The payments were of a 
high amount and going to a series of new payees linked to crypto, matching the 
prevalent pattern of investment fraud. Revolut therefore shouldve been alerted to 
them and to the fact Mrs S was being targeted to a sophisticated investment scam. Although they appreciate the usage patterns and trigger points are different for EMIs 
to banks, they maintain these transactions were sufficiently unusual to have indicated 
a high risk of financial harm.
Mrs S repeatedly made large deposits into the Revolut account before rapidly using 
the funds to purchase crypto by making payments to new payees. Revolut ought to 
have least sought to have established the source of these substantial funds for anti-
money laundering purposes. Over £10,000 passed through the account entirely 
unchallenged  which demonstrates Revolut failed to monitor the account for 
countering both risks involving money laundering and scams.
Although they recognise Revoluts customers utilise their services to legitimately 
invest in crypto, they stressed that the fact these numerous payees were related to 
crypto is just one indicator of financial fraud. The payments were also unusual as 
they were made in short succession and of an increasingly high value -- which 
follows a known pattern of financial fraud in investment scams that Revolut ought to 
be aware of but missed here. 
They dispute the notion there needs to be historic spending on an account to 
compare activity to detect potentially fraudulent transactions. They think this activity 
strongly mirrors the hallmarks of typical investment scams and so, they consider 
Revolut shouldve intervened and broken the spell of the scammer  thereby 
preventing the financial and mental impact on Mrs S caused by it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mrs S has been the victim of a scam and I dont underestimate the impact this has 
had on her. However, I must consider whether Revolut is responsible for the loss she has 
suffered. And while I know this wont be the outcome Mrs S is hoping for, I dont think they 
are. It follows that I dont think Revolut has acted unfairly by not refunding the money lost. Ill 
explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an EMI is expected to process payments 
that their customer authorises them to make. It isnt disputed that Mrs S knowingly made the 
payments from her Revolut account and so, Im satisfied she authorised them. Therefore, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of her account, Revolut are 
expected to process the payments and Mrs S is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Revolut to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mrs S to Revolut (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual enough to have expected additional checks being 
carried out before the payments were processed. 
Mrs S opened the Revolut account on 23 November 2022, the day before she started 
making payments to the scammer. Because of this, there wasnt historical spending on the 
account to have allowed Revolut to assess whether the scam payment transactions were unusual for Mrs S. Ive therefore thought about whether the payments themselves, without 
any typical account usage available, were suspicious enough to have prompted Revolut to 
consider Mrs S was at risk of financial harm from fraud.
C has referred to the payments being of a high value, going to new payees for crypto 
purposes and that they match a prevalent pattern of investment fraud. I think it would be 
relevant to note at this point that the scam payments were made by debit card  so not by 
fund transfer that wouldve involved setting up a new payee. And given it was a newly 
opened account, any transactions on the account wouldve been made to a new beneficiary. 
So, I dont think it can be reasonably said the payments ought to have stood out in this 
respect.  
Although EMI accounts can be used in a similar way to a high street bank account, they 
often offer different services. And the services Revolut offer includes money transfers for 
crypto investment purposes  which many banks limit or restrict. So, while I accept scams 
like what Mrs S fell victim have sadly becoming increasingly prevalent, many of Revoluts 
customers will use their services to legitimately invest in crypto. I therefore dont think the 
payments being linked to crypto alone wouldve given Revolut sufficient reason to think Mrs 
S was at 
I have however given careful consideration to both the value and pattern of the payments. 
Revolut do have a duty of care to protect their customers from financial harm from fraud. 
And looking at the payments here, I can see they were made over a period of four days with 
the first four payments also increasing in value (from £200 up to £4,300). But while a series 
of payments increasing in value over a short period of time can be an indicator of potential 
fraud, Im not persuaded  in these specific circumstances  the payments were of a high 
enough value or sufficiently suspicious to have indicated a heightened risk of financial harm. 
This is because, as Ive said, there wasnt any typical account usage available for Revolut to 
assess whether the scam payment transactions were unusual for Mrs S. And I dont think 
Mrs S using funds to purchase crypto that shed only recently deposited into her Revolut 
account could be said to be either out of character or particularly unusual. Nor do I think the 
payments were of a significant enough value, either individually or collectively, to have given 
Revolut cause for concern. I therefore think it was reasonable for Revolut to assume the 
payments were being made for legitimate crypto purposes. And so, it follows that I wouldnt 
have expected Revolut to have taken additional steps or carry out additional checks before 
processing the payments. 
On a further note, Im aware that C has also referred to Revoluts failure to appropriately 
monitor Mrs Ss account for anti-money laundering reasons. They consider Revolut should 
have at least sought to establish the source of the funds Mrs S was using and, had they 
done so, they wouldve been able to question the payment(s) and identify the scam. Given 
Ive no reason to think Mrs S funded the crypto purchases using illegitimate money, I cant 
reasonably conclude Revolut failed in respect of their anti-money laundering obligations. And 
so, I cant say they missed an opportunity to prevent the loss Mrs S suffered.  
Ive considered whether, on being alerted to the scam, Revolut could reasonably have done 
anything to recover Mrs Ss losses, but I dont think they could. The only possible option for 
recovery here, given the payments were made by debit card, would have been via 
chargeback claims. But given these payments were for the purchasing of crypto with 
legitimate firms, I dont think chargeback claims would have been successful as Mrs S 
received the service she paid for. As such, I think it was reasonable for Revolut not have 
raised chargeback claims here. I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs S and the loss shes suffered. But it would only be 
fair for me to direct Revolut to refund her loss if I thought Revolut was responsible  and Im 
not persuaded that this was the case. For the above reasons, I think Revolut has acted fairly 
and so Im not going to tell them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman