DRN-1929512
 
The complaint
Mr J says Zippa Limited lent to him irresponsibly. He says that he needed to borrow again 
shortly after lending and he tried to borrow increasing amounts. He thinks Zippa didnt make 
adequate checks before lending. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about six instalment loans Zippa provided to Mr J between July 2017 and 
June 2018.
Loan Date TakenInstalments 
(monthly)AmountDate 
Repaid
1 13/07/2017 3 £150 18/07/2017
2 24/07/2017 3 £150 21/08/2017
3 26/08/2017 5 £250 09/10/2017
4 23/10/2017 5 £250 21/11/2017
5 12/12/2017 7 £250 25/04/2018
6 08/06/2018 5 £150 25/10/2018
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Zippa was wrong to have 
approved loans 5 and 6. 
Zippa disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. So the complaint has been passed to me. 
Zippa did provide a fairly detailed response to the opinion which I wont summarise here as 
much of it was a reproduction of the regulators rules and guidance. But I have thought about 
what it said and I have addressed the key issues it raised below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Zippa needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Zippa should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint. Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint 
in part and have explained why below.
Mr J didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 4. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr J had with Zippa. So 
they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
why I dont think Zippas checks were proportionate for loans 5 and 6 and what 
proportionate checks wouldve shown
By loan 5 Mr J was showing a pattern of taking loans, repaying them relatively quickly, and 
then reborrowing. Whilst the amounts he borrowed werent high Mr J did apply to borrow 
higher amounts which Zippa didnt approve. 
I accept that not approving some of Mr Js loans, and restricting the amount he borrowed, 
shows a degree of responsibility. But by loan 5, in my view, it is fairly clear that Mr J was 
trying to borrow fairly high levels of short term credit. And this had been the case for around 
five months. 
So I think Zippa couldve realised at that time that Mr J may have some longer term financial 
problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow problem. Zippa 
shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about Mr Js true financial 
situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Mr Js financial situation at this 
point. And I think that Zippa needed to verify the information it found out, and what Mr J had 
declared, where possible. This is to make sure Mr J was in position to make the repayments 
sustainably. 
I dont think Zippa did this. As it says it asked Mr J about his income and expenditure and 
looked at some information on his credit file. I dont think this was enough. So I need to think 
about what Zippa wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. Mr J has provided some information about his financial circumstances at the time loans 5 
and 6 were approved. This includes his bank statements. I accept that this isnt exactly what 
Zippa wouldve seen at the time. But I think it wouldve found out similar information if it had 
made proportionate checks, so I think its reasonable to rely on it.
As has been established, and not disputed, Mr J was having problems managing his money. 
His ordinary outgoings were relatively high. And he was also borrowing and repaying money 
to other short term lenders.
And a substantial portion of Mr Js income was going on gambling. Which would mean, to 
some extent, that Mr Js ability to repay the loans was dependent on uncertain factors such 
as being able to borrow further and gambling returns. 
I think that Zippa wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks.  
And I think Zippa wouldve seen Mr J wasnt likely to be able repay the loans in a sustainable 
way. So I think that Zippa shouldnt have given loans 5 and 6 to Mr J and I think hes lost out 
as a result of this.
So Im upholding Mr Js complaint about loans 5 and 6. 
And to be clear to Zippa, as it has asked for this clarity, this approach is reflected in the 
guidance and regulations issued by the FCA. Particularly in, for example:
CONC 5.2.4G02/11/2015 RP(2) A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular 
circumstances dependent on, for example, the type and amount of the credit being sought 
and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly 
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to 
the customer's financial situation.
The key word in this paragraph, and much of the guidance, is sustainable. It isnt enough, as 
I say above, to look at affordability alone. Put simply if a consumer is borrowing repeatedly 
over time it is often the case that a business would need to make further checks to make 
sure the loans are sustainable and to get to the bottom of why short term, expensive, credit 
is being used over a longer period of time. 
 
The information Zippa had, in my opinion, points to the need for more rigorous checks over 
time. Zippa didnt do this. It relied on the same checks throughout which I dont think was 
right here. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr J paid on loans 5 and 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about loans 5 and 6 from Mr Js credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Zippa to take off tax from this interest. Zippa must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Js complaint.
Zippa Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman