DRN-3220390
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the quotation provided by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) to reduce the mileage allowance on her finance agreement.
 
What happened
In June 2019 Mrs G acquired a new vehicle through a hire agreement. The agreement ran 
for 36 months. There was a maximum annual allowance of 20,000 miles, and a maximum 
total allowance of 60,000 miles.  
Near the end of 2020 Mrs G contacted VWFS to ask about changing the mileage allowance 
on the agreement. Shed intended to use the car to commute to work, but because of the 
coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) shed had to work from home, and so hadnt used the 
miles she initially thought she would. 
VWFS provided a quote for Mrs G to reduce her mileage allowance from 60,000 to 36,000. 
This changed her payments from £286.17 a month to £262.43 a month. 
Mrs G was unhappy that the revised quote wasnt lower, as she expected to drive around 
half of the originally agreed miles, so she complained to VWFS. 
VWFS sent Mrs G their final response to her complaint in January 2021. They said the quote 
had been calculated correctly and didnt uphold her complaint. 
In May 2021 Mrs G contacted VWFS and asked to change her maximum annual allowance 
to 35,000 miles. VWFS provided a quote for this change, but Mrs G wasnt happy with the 
new monthly payment of £209.32, and she complained to VWFS. 
VWFS sent Mrs G their final response to her complaint in June 2021. They said the quote 
had been based on their mileage amendment policy, and it was correct. They didnt uphold 
Mrs Gs complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs G brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said the 
car would be worth far more with 35,000 miles than if shed driven it 60,000 miles. The 
agreement terms say shed have to pay for any excess miles driven, so she should be 
entitled to a refund at the same rate if less miles are driven. Mrs G said shes suffered 
financially as a result of Covid-19, and its unfair that VWFS will profit from a car thats worth 
much more.  
Our investigator gave her view that the agreement didnt contain a provision to amend the 
mileage allowance, so VWFS didnt need to accept Mrs Gs request to do so. She said there 
wasnt a provision in the agreement for a refund if the mileage allowance wasnt used, there 
were many factors affecting the resale value of a car, not just the mileage and VWFS had 
treated Mrs G fairly by using their mileage amendment policy to calculate her revised 
monthly payments. So, she didnt think VWFS needed to do anything more. 
Mrs G didnt agree. She said VWFS are benefitting from a situation outside of everyones 
control. She said the cars value will be at least £2,000 more than if shed driven the miles 
she originally expected to, so shell have overpaid for the vehicle by the time the agreement 
ends. Mrs G isnt happy that VWFS are profiting from the situation.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Mrs G was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
As the agreement sets out the legally binding terms, Ive had a look at this. 
When Mrs G entered into the agreement, a maximum annual and overall mileage allowance 
was agreed. In this case it was 20,000 miles per year or 60,000 miles over the duration of 
the agreement. This is the maximum mileage permitted. 
The terms say should Mrs G exceed the agreed mileage, extra charges would be payable. 
But Ive found there are no provisions within the agreement should Mrs G want to reduce her 
mileage allowance. So, I cant say VWFS needed to accept Mrs Gs request to lower her 
mileage allowance. 
VWFS did accept Mrs Gs request to lower her mileage allowance. Because theres no 
provision for this in the agreement, it doesnt set out how this would be calculated. But I 
havent seen anything to suggest that VWFS treated Mrs G unfairly when making this 
calculation. Theyve followed their mileage amendment policy, so Im satisfied that Mrs G 
has been treated the same as any other consumer that VWFS amended the mileage for. 
Mrs G has said she should be compensated for fewer miles at the same rate as shed have 
been charged for excess miles. I havent seen anything in the agreement to say there would 
be a reduction in payments if the car is returned with fewer miles than anticipated. The 
allowance is a maximum so the possibility of travelling less has already been factored into 
the agreement. 
Mrs G said because of Covid-19 and the restrictions imposed by the UK government, her 
use of the car was impacted because she no longer needed to travel to work. So, in 
considering the complaint, Ive also looked at whether I think VWFS acted reasonably given 
the impact of Covid-19. 
I appreciate Mrs Gs frustrations and I can also understand her point that by driving less than 
the agreed allowance of 60,000 miles, the resale value of the car is likely to be impacted. 
However, there are several factors that could affect the resale value of a car, not just its 
mileage. Its not uncommon in a hire agreement like Mrs Gs for the maximum milage and 
monthly payments to be agreed at the outset, but for the value of the car to change during 
the term of the agreement. Should Mrs Gs vehicle have lost value, she wouldnt be 
responsible for this and VWFS would incur this loss. Unfortunately, Covid-19 changed Mrs Gs circumstances, However, even though her 
circumstances changed, I need to take into account that this was unforeseen and not 
something VWFS, nor Mrs G, could prevent. Overall, while I understand the impact Covid-19 
has had on Mrs G and her use of the car, I dont think I can fairly say VWFS have done 
anything wrong by agreeing to alter Mrs Gs mileage allowance, or in their calculations for 
doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman