DRN-2030269
The complaint
Mrs J complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) avoided her motor 
insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay her claim following her 
car being stolen.
What happened
Mrs J originally took out a motor insurance policy in October 2018 with AA over the phone 
which automatically renewed in October 2019. Her husband, Mr J, was a named driver on 
the policy. When the policy was originally taken out, Mrs J had declared that Mr J had two 
speeding convictions from 2015 and 2017. 
In March 2020, Mrs Js car was stolen and she tried to make a claim.  
AA said shed answered the question it asked about her and her additional drivers previous 
accidents and claims incorrectly at both the start of the policy and on renewal. This is 
because shed had an incident in 2016 where shed claimed on her insurance policy and Mr 
J had one in July 2019 where his policy had a claim made against it. So, it considered this to 
be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her policy and decline 
her claim because of this but return the premium shed already paid for the 2019/20 policy 
year. 
Mrs J brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld in part. 
They agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But didnt think this was 
deliberate or reckless. They believed it was careless. So, thought AA were entitled to avoid 
Mrs Js policy and decline her claim. However, they felt AA should return the premiums shed 
paid for both policy years whereas AA had offered to return the premium charged at renewal, 
policy year 2019/20. Also, they didnt find that the service given to Mrs J had fallen below the 
standard wed expect.
AA accepted this but Mrs J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She says:
- She shouldve declared her accident from 2016 at the inception of the policy but she 
forgot and has apologised for this. 
- Although aware of the incident Mr J had in July 2019, she didnt realise she had to 
declare this as she didnt feel it had anything to do with her cover. She feels this 
claim is being held against her and Mr J so the AA can get out of their obligation of 
settlement.
- She believes that AA should have checked this history of her and Mr J at the point of 
application. If they had, she says they wouldve been aware, through the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database, that her and Mr J had been involved in 
previous accidents in 2016 and 2019 respectively. 
- Her and Mr J have No Claims Bonus (NCB) protection as well as being AA members 
which means shes allowed two claims per policy year without it affecting her policy. 
- Cancelling the policy should only be done in extreme cases and isnt something AA 
must do. Instead, she feels she should be given a warning or be asked to pay more 
next year. She feels theyre trying to make an example of her and this isnt fair.
Finally, she didnt want the premium for 2018/19 to be returned to her as she didnt agree the 
policy shouldve been cancelled from the beginning. 
Our investigator further considered the matter and points raised. Whilst this didnt change 
their overall opinion that a qualifying careless misrepresentation had been made, he clarified 
with AA whether Mrs J had a member policy. This is because the underwriting criteria for 
member policies was different and would affect whether AA was entitled to avoid the policy 
from the beginning or on renewal and, therefore, if a refund was due for both policy years or 
2019/20 only. AA confirmed that Mrs J had a member policy. As a result, AA would have 
insured her in 2018/19 if it had been given the correct information about the fault claim. 
However, due a further fault claim in July 2019, it wouldnt have then offered her insurance 
on renewal if it had been given the correct information about this at the time. So, our 
investigator explained to both AA and Mrs J that his view was that AA would only need to 
refund the premium from 2019/2020 as it had already offered to do.
The matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AA thinks Mrs J failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
told it that both her and Mr J hadnt been involved in any incidents in the last five years at the 
start of the policy and then confirmed this was still true at renewal.
Ive looked at what Mrs J was asked at the 2018 policy inception however, due to the time 
that has passed, the original sales call is no longer available. However, AA have sent us a 
copy of the documents sent to Mrs J after this call outlining her policy cover and the answers 
Mrs J has provided to any questions she was asked. This says:
Please read your statement of insurance, together with the rest of your policy 
documents, carefully, to ensure that the information about you, the car and the 
named driver(s) is accurate and up to date and that the cover meets your needs. It is 
important that you take reasonable care to ensure the information supplied by you, or 
on your behalf, is provided, honestly, fully and to the best of your knowledge. If you feel this policy does not meet your needs, or if any of the information is incorrect, 
incomplete, or if you need to make a change (e.g. add additional drivers or change 
your estimated average annual mileage), please call our Customer Services Helpline 
as soon as possible, as failure to let us know of any changes could result in your 
policy being invalidated/cancelled or in your claim being rejected or not fully paid
I cant therefore say that AA didnt make Mrs J aware of the importance of ensuring that the 
information provided is accurate and the potential repercussions if it is not. 
Ive also looked at the documents sent at the 2019 renewal and the same wording is still 
present  again prompting Mrs J to ensure the information is accurate and up to date.
In both the 2018 and 2019 documents the answer to the below question is recorded as no.
Have you or any person who will drive been involved in any accident or suffered any 
loss (whether to blame or not) involving a motor vehicle - whether or not the subject 
of an insurance claim - in the last five years?
I think this is a clear question and Mrs J ought to have understood that regardless of the 
nature of any prior incidents her or Mr J may have been involved in, they both needed to be 
declared. And I note she had declared Mr Js speeding convictions when the policy was first 
taken out. Because of this, I believe that Mrs J failed to take reasonable care when 
answering this question. This is at both the start of the policy and on renewal.
AA has provided evidence in the form of their underwriting criteria which shows they wouldnt 
have offered her cover for 2019/20 if theyd been given the correct information. This means 
Im satisfied Mrs Js misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
If a misrepresentation isnt deliberate or reckless then CIDRA says its careless. AA has said 
Mrs Js misrepresentation was careless and I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
otherwise so I agree with this.
As a result, Ive looked at the actions AA can take in accordance with CIDRA. And Im 
satisfied AA was entitled to avoid Mrs Js policy in accordance with CIDRA from renewal. 
And, as this means that  in effect  her policy as from the point of renewal never existed, 
AA does not have to deal with her claim following the theft of her vehicle. 
Taking everything into account, the above is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this 
complaint.
Im not ignoring Mrs Js comment that she and her husband had NCB protection. However, 
this is a policy benefit which would allow Mr and Mrs J to make a set number of claims on 
the policy each term without it affecting the level of discount their NCB given them on their 
premiums. It doesnt affect how CIDRA operates in a situation like this.
Im also unable to agree that AA shouldve known through CUE that Mr and Mrs J had 
previous claims and avoided the policy earlier. Insurance policies are taken out on good faith 
and there is no requirement for an insurer to check the details provided to it until a claim is 
made. However, there is an obligation on the customer to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation.
In summary, AA is entitled to avoid the policy and refuse to deal with her claim for her stolen 
vehicle. It should also refund the premium to Mrs J for the policy year 2019/20 as it has 
already agreed to do. I understand Mrs J feels strongly about this matter and Im sorry this decision will be a 
disappointment to her, especially at a time when shes already feeling very distressed by this 
situation. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with AA 
 can do.
Putting things right
To put things right, AA should return the premiums to Mrs D for policy year 2019/20 as it has 
already offered to do.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Js complaint against AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited. To put things right, it should return the premiums 
to her for policy year 2019/20 as it has already offered to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman