DRN-3489697
The complaint
Mrs M complains about QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declining a claim under her horse and rider 
insurance policy for the death of her horse.
References to QIC include their agents who administer the policy.
In making her complaint, Mrs M was supported by a representative for a period. References 
to Mrs M include her representative.
What happened
Mrs M had a horse insurance policy with QIC, covering a horse she owned. Sadly, in 
October 2021, the horse developed an illness. A vet examined the horse and advised that, 
on humane grounds, the horse should be euthanised, which Mrs M agreed. Mrs M lodged a 
claim with QIC under the policy for the cost of treatment and the euthanising of her horse, as 
well as for its loss.
However, QIC declined the claim on the grounds that a clear diagnosis of the condition that 
led to the horse being euthanised hadnt been provided. Nor had a post mortem been carried 
out. QIC also referred to an exclusion in the policy that it wouldnt accept a claim if it was due 
to a digestive system condition. While a post mortem hadnt been carried out, QIC said there 
was a differential diagnosis potentially related to the digestive system condition exclusion.
Unhappy at QIC declining her claim, Mrs M complained to QIC. In doing so, she provided a 
report from her vet (A). The report stated the horses symptoms didnt indicate a digestive 
system condition.
QIC didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said theyd referred the claim to 
a vet (N) who advised the clinical history of the horse indicated impending colitis and other 
symptoms consistent with a digestive system condition (so falling under the policy 
exclusion). QIC also said that because a post mortem hadnt been carried out (and they 
hadnt been contacted to agree that one wasnt carried out) it wasnt possible to determine 
the cause of the horses condition (that led to the decision to euthanise the horse). Nor were 
QIC told of the decision to euthanise beforehand. They also noted N had considered As 
report but didnt agree with its conclusions. Based on these points, they confirmed their 
decision to decline the claim.
Unhappy at QICs response, Mrs M complained to this service. The main part of her 
complaint was that QIC had unfairly declined her claim for treatment of her horses condition 
and its loss. She didnt think the horses condition was excluded under the policy, as it was 
caused by an infection and not a digestive system condition.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint, concluding QIC didnt need to take any 
further action. She thought the vets notes in the period up to the euthanising of the horse 
indicated impending colitis and Ns report indicated the treating vet thought the horses 
symptoms were due to an intestinal tract condition. As such, the investigator thought this 
would fall within the definition of the policy exclusion for losses directly or indirectly arising 
from the digestive system (including colic). But even had further evidence indicated the 
horses condition wasnt of the digestive system, she thought another policy condition  
stating QIC had to agree that a post mortem wasnt required  meant QIC could have 
declined to accept the claim.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing she said she understood the policy wouldnt cover loss [of use] as 
a post mortem wasnt carried out. But she thought she should be covered for the vets bills 
for treatment of her horse before it was euthanised, as the attending vet had said the 
treatment was for an unknown infection. She also said her horse hadnt suffered from colitis 
for nine years and this meant the exclusion should have been removed. While she accepted 
she hadnt had a post mortem carried out, the timing and circumstances of the loss meant 
this wasnt something she felt could be carried out sensitively.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to express my sympathies to Mrs M for the loss of her horse, which I know will 
have been very upsetting, having owned her for 12 years. I also appreciate the difficult 
circumstances of the loss, which Mrs M has described. While being sympathetic, my role 
here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mrs M. 
The key issue in Mrs Ms complaint is whether QIC acted fairly in declining her claim for the 
cost of treatment up to the euthanising of her horse. Mrs M argues, pointing to support from 
the attending vet, the condition wasnt one of the digestive system (colitis) but due to an 
unknown infection. She also says her horse hadnt suffered from colitis for nine years and so 
the exclusion should have been removed from the policy. QIC, supported by their vets 
opinion, say the clinical notes indicate potential colitis and therefore would fall under the 
policy exclusion. 
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the supporting evidence and information, 
including the clinical notes for the horses history of treatment, together with the reports and 
opinions of the vets engaged by Mrs M (A) and QIC (N). In the absence of a post mortem, 
there isnt a clear, agreed diagnosis of the condition affecting the horse, which ultimately led 
to the difficult decision to euthanise. As the claim was declined on the basis of an exclusion, 
the onus is on QIC to show that it acted reasonably in applying it. Taking the evidence as a 
whole, on the balance of probabilities, Ive concluded it was reasonable for QIC to apply the 
exclusion to decline the claim. I know that will be disappointing to Mrs M, so Ill set out why 
Ive come to that conclusion.
Looking at the vets reports and the clinical notes, the latter includes a reference (two days 
before the euthanasia) to impending colitis. While A agrees with Ns opinion that the 
horses symptoms were suggestive of an infection, he refers to other comments in the 
clinical notes about symptoms that in his opinion would be consistent with an intestinal tract 
conditions and potentially colitis. A also refers to a reference in the clinical notes (in January 
2020) to the horse suffering from recurrent colic. While I accept - in the absence of a post 
mortem that could have provided a clear diagnosis of the condition suffered by the horse - 
its not possible to be definitive, Im persuaded by As view. Based on this, Ive concluded 
QIC acted reasonably in applying the exclusion to decline Mrs Ms claim.
The exclusion itself was contained in the policy and (prominently) on the renewal document 
before the incident  including the most recent renewal in April 2021. Under a heading 
Exclusions on the first page of the renewal document it lists several exclusions, including:Excluding all losses arising directly or indirectly from the digestive system (including 
colic).
Given its prominence, I think the exclusion is clear. Mrs M says her horse hadnt suffered 
from colitis for nine years and so the exclusion should have been removed from the policy 
the absence of any colic. However, its for QIC as the insurer to offer the terms under which 
it will provide cover, including any exclusions (and for Mrs M to decide whether to accept 
those terms and take out cover on that basis). Given its prominence in the renewal 
documentation, I dont think Mrs M could reasonable be said to be unaware of the exclusion 
when she renewed her policy.
While Mrs M, when disagreeing with our investigators view, says she accepts she didnt 
have a post mortem and wouldnt be covered for loss (of use) Ive also considered this 
aspect. Id first want to say that Ive thought carefully about the circumstances of the loss of 
her horse that Mrs M has described, particularly the timing of the loss and why she didnt feel 
it was right for her horse to remain at the place it was euthanised until a post mortem could 
have been arranged. I understand why she felt this, for the reasons shes told us. However, 
looking at the policy terms and conditions, I think they are clear about the need for a post 
mortem, and for QICs agreement where one isnt carried out. The terms and conditions 
relating to the death of a horse through euthanasia include the following condition:
d following the euthanasia procedure you must, at your own expense, obtain a post 
mortem report, unless we have agreed that this condition can be waived.
If any or all of the above Conditions are not satisfied we will not pay your claim.
While I appreciate the circumstances of the euthanasia, the wording is clear and QIC acted 
in accordance with the policy terms and conditions when declining Mrs Ms claim for the loss 
of her horse.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman