DRN-2714664
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) unfairly added a default 
to her credit file and that it did not remove other loans from her credit file in their entirety 
even though her complaint about them had been previously upheld.
What happened
Mrs M previously complained about unaffordable lending in a case that was partially upheld 
in July 2019. She says that whilst she was waiting for Lending Stream to action the agreed 
redress, it defaulted one of the loans that had not been upheld. Mrs M says this is unfair as 
Lending Stream owed her £700 at the time and, had it not approved further unaffordable 
loans, shed have been able to repay the defaulted loan on time. She says shed like all 
adverse information removed from her credit file as she had no control over how long it 
would take to settle her previous complaint. Mrs M adds that shed also like the upheld loans 
removed from her credit file entirely as their presence is viewed negatively by lenders.
Mrs M subsequently raised an additional complaint about Lending Stream not informing her 
about the effect of having short-term loans on her credit file. On that basis, she says, it 
should remove all the loans from her credit file.
Lending Stream says it received the adjudication on Mrs Ms unaffordability complaint on 2 
July 2019 but had defaulted loan 3 at the end of June due to non-payment. It says the loan 
was not one about which the affordability complaint had been upheld. Lending Stream also 
confirmed it had removed adverse information on the upheld loans from Mrs Ms credit file.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that:
This service had previously upheld Mrs Ms complaint about the affordability of loans 
4, 5 and 6 (of the six loans for which shed applied);
The refund owed to Mrs M was £68.62;
Loan 3 had been defaulted, but as this was not one of the upheld loans, Lending 
Stream was entitled to reflect this on her credit file;
Lending Stream had removed adverse information about loans 4, 5 and 6 from 
Mrs Ms credit file.
Mrs M responded to say that she disagreed with the adjudicators view and wasnt confident 
her complaint had been thoroughly investigated. She said she wished to make a Subject 
Access Request (SAR) to enable her to further defend her position. Mrs M also posed some 
specific questions about policies and general regulations.
Mrs Ms detailed response included the following points:
Loan 3 was not sustainable when it was followed by three subsequent unaffordable 
loans;
Lending Stream had said it was unable to freeze interest in response to Mrs Ms 
request in September 2018, but said there are certain legally required 
communications that you will still receive based on the status of your loan including 
payment reminders before the due date, payment confirmation, legal documents and 
notification when you have paid off the loan. So, we would request you to ignore 
these automated payment reminders as we are legally bound to inform you about 
non-payments;
That she maintained arranged payments on the account, including when it was 
transferred to a debt collection agency and so the timing of the default was 
questionable, and she didnt receive a default notice;
Lending Stream was consistently late with its responses, including payment of the 
settlement for the affordability complaint;
The upheld loans should be removed from her credit file entirely. She said that the 
overall pattern of her borrowing for loans 4-6 meant any information recorded about 
them was adverse.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mrs Ms policy queries were addressed separately to this decision. As was outlined to 
Mrs M, I will not be giving any further opinions on such matters, but I will be re-assessing the 
merits of her complaint and providing a decision thereon.
I have considered the outcome of Mrs Ms original affordability complaint and I am satisfied 
that Lending Stream paid the refund and agreed to remove the adverse information on loans 
4 to 6. I have also looked at Mrs Ms credit file and confirmed that to be the case.
I accept that loan 3 is showing as defaulted, but I cant conclude Lending Stream did 
anything wrong in that respect. I acknowledge Mrs M says loan 3 became unsustainable 
once shed been approved for three subsequent unaffordable loans, but the decision on 
affordability is made at the point of application. As loan 3 was not upheld as part of Mrs Ms 
affordability complaint, Lending Stream has an obligation to report accurate information 
about the management of this account. Indeed, I note Mrs M requested that adverse 
information should also be removed from loan 3 before she accepted Lending Streams offer 
on the affordability complaint. When Lending Stream said this would not be a part of its 
settlement, Mrs M agreed to accept the offer regardless.
Although, Lending Stream said Mrs M should ignore these automated payment reminders 
with regard to loan 3, this is because the payment reminders would be based on contractual 
repayments, and not the repayment plan that Lending Stream had agreed with her. Although 
Mrs M says she maintained the agreed repayments, I found that she only made the payments in November 2018, before Lending Stream told her, in February 2019, that it 
would transfer the account to a debt collection agency (DCA). I acknowledge Mrs M said she 
made payments to the DCA, but as she failed to honour the temporary arrangement with 
Lending Stream after the first two payments, I cant conclude it was wrong to default the 
account in June 2019.
Ive also seen evidence that Lending Stream sent Mrs M a default notice for loan 3 dated 
4 February 2019. Lending Stream says this was also emailed to Mrs Ms registered email 
address, so I cant agree it should remove adverse information about loan 3.
I also acknowledge what Mrs M says about the effect of having any short-term loans 
showing on her credit file, even if they contain no negative information. Individual lenders 
have their own criteria for how they use and interpret credit file information and so Lending 
Stream cannot know how such loans will impact an individual in the future. Indeed, a record 
of well-managed loans, even if theyre short-term, will not necessarily have a negative effect. 
I have also looked at the loan agreements and Im satisfied the relevant information about 
how a poor repayment record can impact the credit file is included.
Although Mrs M took out six loans, one of them was in 2016 and I cant agree that the 
remaining five loans showed a pattern of borrowing that meant any information recorded 
about them had an adverse effect on her credit record, especially as loans 4 to 6 now show 
no negative information. Indeed, Mrs M has already accepted this adjustment of her credit 
file in resolution to her affordability complaint.
Finally, I acknowledge there was a delay in Mrs M receiving the settlement for the 
affordability complaint, but I can see Mrs M initially queried Lending Streams offer and finally 
confirmed her acceptance on 28 August 2019, even though the business had agreed to 
settle a month earlier.
In summary, I cant conclude Lending Stream needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman