DRN-2467565
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc didnt allow Mrs W to complete a transfer 
between accounts, in one of their branches.  
What happened
In March 2020, during a national lockdown, Mrs W visited a Clydesdale branch to transfer 
money from a savings account to a current account, that she holds with her husband. 
A staff member wouldnt allow the transaction. They told Mrs W that it was non-essential and 
that due to the national restrictions in place, it shouldnt be completed in branch. Mrs W 
instead deposited a cheque drawn on an account that she held with a different bank, into her 
joint current account.  
Mr and Mrs W complained to Clydesdale. They said that the transfer had been essential. 
This was because they wanted to ensure they had enough money in the account to cover 
their outgoings during the lockdown period. They were unhappy with the approach taken by 
the staff member and didnt feel that Mrs W had been treated fairly. They also said that using 
money from Mrs Ws other account had been inconvenient. 
Clydesdale responded to say that because of the pandemic it was asking customers only to 
visit a branch if they had to, and as Mrs W could have made the transfer using online or 
telephone banking, it didnt think it was wrong to decline her request to complete the transfer 
in branch. 
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into matters and thought that Clydesdale had acted fairly in not allowing the transfer, 
considering government and FCA guidance issued to banks at the time.
 
Mr and Mrs W disagree. They maintain that the transfer was necessary to ensure they had 
enough money in their account. They say they were aware of the guidance and believed it 
was an essential trip. They also dont feel that the staff member was constructive in 
attempting to find out why they required the transfer. They have also confirmed that they 
hadnt used online or telephone banking before.  
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The country was placed into a national lockdown to combat the COVID-19 pandemic on     
23 March 2020. Clydesdale sent customers an email the next day asking that they avoid 
visiting branches unless absolutely necessary, to protect services for those that need them 
most. This was an approach taken by the industry, was in line with government guidance 
and matches guidance issued by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, on 25 March 
2020.
On 25 March 2020, Mr and Mrs W decided to transfer money from a savings account to their 
current account to insulate them from problems the pandemic could cause to their finances. I 
think this was a commendable thing to do. But I dont think making the transfer in branch 
was absolutely necessary. I say this because the transfer could have been made online or 
over the phone. I accept that Mr and Mrs W hadnt used either service previously and would 
have preferred not to have to. But they were an alternative to using a branch counter. It 
follows that I think it was fair and reasonable for Clydesdale to decline Mrs Ws request to 
make the transfer in branch.
Mrs W decided to deposit a cheque drawn on an account held elsewhere. As I understand it, 
this was something Mrs W thought to do, rather than something recommended by the 
branch staff. So, although I accept this may have been convenient for Mr and Mrs Ws 
finances, I dont think Clydesdale is responsible. I also understand the deposit was made at 
a self-service machine, rather than the counter. So, I dont think Clydesdale allowing it 
contradicts its decision to decline the transfer request. 
I know Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an 
end what we  in trying to resolve their dispute with Clydesdale  can do for them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman