DRN-3084336
The complaint
Miss D complains Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited unfairly increased her 
premium and then cancelled her motor insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Watford Insurance are 
responsible, Ive just referred to it in this decision.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint, setting out whatd happened, and what I 
thought about that. Ive set out the relevant sections below, and they form part of this final 
decision.
Miss D initially took out a motor policy online on 4 September 2017. Miss D renewed the 
policy over the telephone on 28 August 2018. Miss Ds car was involved in an accident in 
January 2019  and Watford Insurance said when completing its claims checks itd come to 
light she was unemployed. 
Watford Insurance said shed answered the question it asked about her employment 
incorrectly. And, although it didnt put it in these terms, I think it considered this to be a 
careless/deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to an additional 
premium of £287.44. Watford Insurance said if Miss D didnt pay this, then theyd cancel her 
policy. After letters were issued asking for payment on 9 and 16 January 2019, Miss D 
hadnt paid the additional premium, so Watford Insurance cancelled her policy. They also 
refunded Miss D a proportion of her premium and set out the calculation for this. 
Miss D brought her complaint to us and our investigator ultimately thought it shouldnt be 
upheld. He felt Watford Insurance had asked clear questions which Miss D hadnt answered 
correctly.
Miss D doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Shes said the way the questions worked required you to answer them in the way she did  
so she didnt think shed done anything wrong in the way shed answered them.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Watford Insurance thinks Miss D failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she answered the questions regarding her employment.
Ive looked at the questions Watford Insurance have said Miss D was asked. The questions 
are worded as follows:
Main Occupation
Main Business Type
Employment Status
Do you have a second occupation?
Watford have explained they cant locate a screenshot to show us what happens when 
someone says yes to have a second occupation.
Miss Ds information is recorded in a different format  so Ive included what the details are, 
and the information recorded against Miss D:
Employment Status  Disability
Full Time Occupation  Cleaner
Full Time Business  Civil Service
Miss Ds argument all along is that she was told she had to record her former employment in 
order to progress through the questions. And Im inclined to believe her. I say that because I 
dont see a scenario where someone says theyre disabled, when asked for their 
employment status, but then record a full time occupation as a cleaner  with their full time 
business as civil service. Quite simply, these details dont add up. And thats repeated with 
her fathers details as well.
I understand that Miss D was asked to confirm her details were correct over the phone when 
renewing the policy  but Ive not seen anything to show she was asked to confirm her 
employment status again. And in the documents sent out to her after she renewed the policy 
on 28 August 2018 theres no mention of her employment status in them  so there was no 
opportunity to correct this wrong information.
With that in mind, I think Miss D took reasonable care, meaning theres been no 
misrepresentation. That means I think Watford Insurances actions are unfair, and not in line 
with CIDRA.
Because of that, they need to pay her claim if they havent already and wipe off any 
outstanding premium charge theyve previously asked her to pay.
Watford Insurance also need to remove any trace from any internal or external records about 
the cancellation  as this shouldnt have happened. They should also provide Miss D with a 
letter confirming shes not had a policy cancelled following a review by our service.
Miss D should be aware I wont be asking Watford Insurance to calculate how much shes 
lost out as a result of the cancellation being noted against her. Instead, shell need to contact 
each of her insurers providing Watford Insurances letter about it being cancelled incorrectly to them. Insurers will usually then recalculate a fair premium that she would have been 
charged. 
Taking all of that into account, I think Miss D has been caused quite a lot of distress, and will 
have the additional inconvenience of having to contact several insurers shes been insured 
with. So, I think £400 compensation would be fair to reflect that as well.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss D replied and said she accepted my decision.
Watford Insurance didnt reply by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss D has accepted my decision, and Watford Insurance didnt reply by the deadline, 
Ive seen no reason to change the outcome Ive reached. Ill be upholding the complaint and 
have set out redress in the next section.
Putting things right
I require Watford Insurance to:
Pay the claim  if they havent already
Cancel the premium charge theyve been asking her to pay
Remove all traces of the cancellation from any internal or external databases
Provide Miss D with a letter confirming that her policy wasnt cancelled with them 
following a review by our service
Pay Miss D £400 compensation  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ds complaint and require Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited to carry out the actions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman