DRN-1420853
 
The complaint
 Ms M complains that Barclays Bank PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1999. Ms M completed an 
application form for her credit card and the PPI policy was added at the same time. Barclays 
says it cant be sure whether this was a postal or branch sale. But it has treated it as a sale 
in a branch to be fair to Ms M, because this means it needed to ensure the PPI policy was 
suitable for her.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms M disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Ms Ms case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain. 
Ms M says she didnt know shed been sold the PPI and wasnt told it was optional.
Ive seen a copy of the application form which Ms M completed and signed at the time. 
Theres a section on this about PPI. I can see that Ms M has ticked a Yes box in this 
section to confirm she wanted to take out this cover. Theres an equally prominent No box 
she could have ticked if she hadnt wanted it. I can also see that Ms M didnt choose to take 
out the card protection cover which was offered on the form.
So, on the information available to me, I think that Ms M would have known she had a choice 
about buying the policy and actively decided to do so. But the sale happened a very long 
time ago, so I can understand why she may not recall this now.
I cant now know what Barclays did to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for Ms M. But 
from what I know of her circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt 
have been suitable. I say this because:
Ms M appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
 
Ms M says she would have been eligible for sick pay and had some savings she 
could fall back on in need. She also says that she had another policy at the time which would have protected her if she wasnt able to work. But Ms M hasnt been 
able to provide evidence to show the type and amount of cover given by this other 
policy when this was requested by the adjudicator. So I dont think it would be fair for 
me to conclude that this policy would have given her the same protection as one 
which was designed to specifically cover her card repayments if she couldnt work. 
In any case, her credit card PPI would have paid out in addition to her other means. 
And she chose to take out the policy, which suggests she valued this type of cover. 
So I still think she would have thought the extra security the policy gave her was 
worth paying for.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Ms M. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her 
needs. 
Barclays also needed to ensure that Ms M received enough information about the PPI policy 
for her to decide if it met her needs. From what Ive seen, I think the information it gave her 
could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable for her, I dont think better information would have changed her mind 
about taking it.
So I dont think Ms M has lost out by anything Barclays may have done wrong when it sold 
her this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Ms M has said in response to our adjudicators view, but 
this hasnt changed my mind about not upholding this complaint.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M because:
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms M about 
that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms M, that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms M. 
But Barclays Bank Plc does have to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman