DRN-4053537
The complaint
Miss C has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) started charging her a 
monthly fee for a Select Platinum account. 
Miss C is unhappy with this because, due to her late partner previously working for RBS, 
shed previously been able to have the account without paying the monthly account fee that 
usually applies to the account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong.
Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to uphold this complaint.
RBS has explained that many of its retired employees were able to retain a packaged 
account with RBS  in some cases without paying any fee and in some cases paying a 
reduced fee. RBS says that to ensure that all staff and retired staff are treated equally and 
fairly, it decided to allow all staff and retired staff members to have packaged accounts (with 
a few exceptions) for 50% of the usual cost of the account. 
RBS has explained that, as Miss Cs late partner was a retired member of staff, and as the 
account was a joint account when he passed away, this meant that Miss Cs account has 
essentially been treated the same as a retired employees account.
Miss C says that she was given mixed messages as she says the fees were waived, but 
were then charged without notice. However, RBS says that it sent a notice of variation letter 
in March 2022, explaining that Miss C would be charged 50% of the standard monthly fee 
and Miss C has confirmed she received this letter.
Having looked at the letter in question, I think it made it quite clear that Miss C would be 
charged 50% of the full monthly account fee from 19 May 2022, and it gave the reasons why 
the changes were being made. The letter also explained what options were available to Miss 
C going forwards and included information about the changes within an FAQ document.
Deciding how much it should charge its customers (or conversely, how much of a discount it 
is willing to provide) is a reasonable exercise of RBS commercial judgement. Therefore, I 
cant say that RBS has acted incorrectly in doing this. Furthermore, when making such 
changes, RBS is required to give affected account holders reasonable notice before the 
changes come into effect. This is to allow account holders time to consider their options. And 
given that the notice was issued in March 2022 and the change came into effect in May 
2022, Im satisfied that Miss C was given a reasonable amount of time to consider her 
options and downgrade her account to a fee-free account if she didnt want to pay for the 
account going forwards.
In her response to the adjudicators assessment, I note that Miss C had held off changing 
her account as she still had a couple of questions. 
Miss C asked if widows of ex-employees would also have to pay the 50% monthly account 
fee. However, the letter informing her of the changes made it quite clear that everyone who 
was receiving a staff-based discount (which she was) would have to pay 50% going 
forwards. So I cant see why Miss C questioned if widows would be treated any differently 
given that firstly, the letter was addressed specifically to her so it was clear that the changes 
would apply to her account and secondly, the letter made it clear that the changes apply to 
everyone receiving a staff based discount.
Miss C has also asked if the account number and sort code will remain the same if she 
downgrades to a fee-free account. The adjudicator has confirmed that they will remain the 
same. Miss C says that she has tried to obtain this information from RBS before and wasnt 
given the correct answer. Whereas RBS says that it has no evidence that Miss C had asked 
about this and also says that its branch staff are aware that downgrading a packaged 
account doesnt change the account sort code or account number. Overall, Ive not seen 
enough evidence to be able to say that Miss C was likely given wrong information about this.
As such, having considered everything, Im unable to conclude that RBS has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in this matter. On the contrary, RBS has done what it was required to do in 
terms of informing Miss C about the changes that were due to take place on her account and 
what her options were.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman