DRN-1779791
 
The complaint
Mr B says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about 8 six-month instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr B 
between April 2018 and March 2019. This is a summary of Mr Bs borrowing history from 
Lending Stream.  
Loan Taken out Repaid Amount, £
1 11/04/2018 02/10/2018 300
2 07/09/2018 21/12/2018 400
3 04/12/2018 29/03/2019 400
4 04/01/2019 27/04/2019 610
5 05/02/2019 - 260
6 05/03/2019 - 150
7 29/03/2019 - 170
8 31/03/2019 27/04/2019 70
 
Our adjudicator said loans 6 onwards shouldnt have been given. Lending Stream accepted 
this conclusion, but Mr B didnt. So the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should've carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B says Lending Stream didnt do sufficient checks, and he had other debts at the time. 
I think Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks for loan 1. It asked for details of his 
income and expenditure and carried out a credit check. And I havent seen anything in the 
information it gathered that I think should have led it to reach a different lending decision. I 
note that the credit checks showed Mr B had previously defaulted on accounts, but given the 
early stage in the lending relationship, the value of the monthly repayments and the income 
Mr B declared, Id agree with Lending Stream that this in itself wasnt a reason not to lend to 
Mr B. So I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr B.
I dont however think Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks for loans 2 to 5, there 
was an increase in the amounts he was borrowing, his declared income fell and his monthly 
repayments were increasing. Loans started to overlap. So I think Lending Stream should 
have carried out fuller financial reviews before continuing to lend. We have asked Mr B for 
copies of his bank statements so we could see what better checks would have shown 
Lending Stream. But he didnt provide these. So I am unable to say that better checks would 
have shown Lending Stream that it shouldnt have given loans 2 to 5 to Mr B. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Mr B, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Lending Stream should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Lending Stream should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case I think, like the adjudicator, that this point 
was reached by loan 6. I say this because:At this point Lending Stream ought to have realised Mr B was not managing to repay 
his loans sustainably. Mr B had taken out six loans within 10 months. Whilst he may 
have started to reduce the amount he was borrowing, his loans were overlapping so 
his monthly repayments and total outstanding debt were increasing.  So Lending 
Stream ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr B was struggling to 
manage his finances and that Mr Bs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Lending Stream. Loan 8 
was taken out 11 months after Mr Bs first. His monthly repayments over that period 
had increased significantly. Mr B had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to Lending Stream over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr B lost out because Lending Stream continued to provide borrowing from loan 
6 onwards because:
 
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Bs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 onwards and Lending Stream should put 
things right  as it has already agreed to.
 
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
 
refund all interest and charges paid on loan 8 and pay interest of 8% simple a year 
on any refunded interest and charges from the date they were paid (if they were) to 
the date of settlement*;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans 6 and 7 and treat any 
payments Mr B made towards these loans as payments towards the capital 
if reworking Mr Bs accounts for loans 6 and 7 as Ive directed results in Mr B 
effectively having made payments above the original capital borrowed on any loan, 
then Lending Stream should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, 
to the date of settlement*. 
if reworking Mr Bs accounts for loans 6 and 7 leaves an amount of capital still to be 
paid on any loan, then Lending Stream can use any refund due on other loans (after 
the deduction of tax) to offset this. And if there is still an outstanding capital balance 
on any loan then I remind Lending Stream that it should take a sympathetic view 
when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B. 
Lending Stream may also use any of the above refunds due to repay any outstanding 
balance (including interest and charges) that remains on loan 5.
any information recorded about loans 6 onwards is adverse. So all entries about 
loans 6 onwards should be removed from Mr Bs credit file, for loans 6 and 7 this 
should be once they have been repaid.
 *HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one. If Lending Stream intends to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding balance, it 
must do so after deducting the tax.
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should pay Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman