DRN-2724586
The complaint
Mr E complained about a cheque that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) misplaced and the poor 
customer service it provided.
What happened
Mr E had a current account with HSBC. On the night of 17 December 2020 he posted an 
envelope that contained a paying in slip and cheque, for a large sum of money, into the 
letterbox of his local HSBC branch. 
Mr E phoned HSBC on 22 December 2020, as the funds hadnt been credited to his account. 
HSBC told Mr E to allow 10 days for the cheque to clear. Mr E voiced his concerns to HSBC 
about whether something had gone wrong, as he thought the cheque should have cleared at 
that stage. HSBC said it would contact Mr Es local branch and ask it to phone him. 
Mr E phoned HSBC again on 24 December 2020, as the funds still hadnt been credited and 
he hadnt been phoned by his local branch. Mr E asked HSBC to look into what happened to 
the cheque. HSBC told Mr E it would email his local branch and ask it to either credit the 
cheque to his account or contact him. 
Mr E phoned HSBC twice on 29 December 2020 as the cheque hadnt cleared. On the first 
occasion, HSBC told him it would look into his concerns and would call him back after 5pm. 
At this stage HSBC offered Mr E £50 compensation. 
The HSBC manager from Mr Es local branch emailed him on 30 December 2020 and said 
he personally conducted a search and wasnt able to find the cheque. He told Mr E if he 
deposited another cheque immediately, it would clear by the end of 31 December 2020. The 
branch manager also said that as 1 January 2021 was a bank holiday, any payments that 
were due out of Mr Es account on that day would now be made on 4 January 2021 instead. 
Mr E drove some distance to get a replacement cheque and deposited it on 30 December 
2020. HSBC confirmed on the same day that the cheque had been received and was being 
processed. It also said they couldnt do anything else to investigate why the first cheque had 
gone missing. Mr E complained to HSBC about the missing cheque and about the poor 
customer service it had provided. 
HSBC responded to Mr Es complaint at the end of January 2021. It said customers are 
advised to use its counter service or deposit machines, where receipts can be obtained for 
deposits made. It acknowledged accessing its services wasnt always easy while it had 
reduced opening hours at its branches. HSBC said it realised it was inconvenient for Mr E to 
have to travel to get another cheque, but there was nothing else the branch could have 
done. In relation to call backs, HSBC said there are copies of messages it sent to Mr Es 
local branch asking them to contact him. But it said his local branch might not receive these 
messages for up to 48 hours after they were sent. HSBC said there wasnt any evidence to 
support providing further compensation. 
Mr E was unhappy with the response from HSBC and so complained to this service. He said 
HSBC staff seemed to be unconcerned when contacted by him and the customer service 
provided was appalling. Mr E said he incurred travel costs because he had to drive some 
distance to get a replacement cheque, and incurred charges on his credit card, as the 
second cheque didnt clear in time for his credit card payments to be made. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. She said the service provided could have 
been better and if HSBC had called Mr E to keep him updated, then it would have helped the 
situation. Our investigator said there were no failed transaction charges applied to Mr Es 
account or any items returned unpaid as a result of the cheque clearing when it did, so the 
compensation already offered was fair.  
Mr E disagreed and feels the £50 compensation offered by HSBC does not take account of 
the time and effort it took him to resolve this matter. So this has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Id first of all like to say that I appreciate Mr E is eager to know more about what exactly 
happened to the first cheque he posted into the letterbox at his local branch. HSBC has said 
it looked for the cheque and just cant find it, and Ive not seen any evidence to suggest this 
isnt the case. This means its not possible to know for certain what happened to the first 
cheque. 
As I said, its not possible to know what went wrong here, in terms of the cheque going 
missing. But Mr E says he posted the cheque through the branch letterbox. This means 
confirmation of the deposit couldnt be provided by HSBC, so it seems unfair to hold HSBC 
to account for the cheque going missing when theres no evidence other than Mr Es 
testimony to show it was ever in possession of the cheque. If it had been possible to show 
HSBC were in possession of the cheque and had lost it, so if a receipt for the deposit had 
been obtained, then I could consider compensating Mr E for the financial losses he says hes 
incurred. But I dont think its fair to hold HSBC responsible for the cheque going missing 
when it wasnt securely deposited with them. 
So the focus of this decision is on the customer service HSBC provided after Mr E first 
contacted it on 22 December 2020.  
I can see that when Mr E rang HSBC on 22 December 2020 it told him that cheques can 
take up to 10 days to clear. I dont think this was an unreasonable response to an enquiry 
made during the third working day after the cheque had been put in the letterbox by Mr E. 
And I can see HSBC said it would email the branch, to let them know about his concerns. 
But I think that when Mr E rang HSBC on 24 December 2020 it could have done more and 
could have phoned Mr Es local branch rather than emailing it, in particular as HSBC 
acknowledges that it can take up to 48 hours for internal emails to be actioned. And Mr E 
had also let HSBC know that his local branch doesnt provide a contact phone number, so 
he was unable to make his own enquiries with it and was dependent on HSBC taking action. 
But it also has to be remembered that this happened over the Christmas period and even if 
HSBC had taken action more swiftly, it still wouldnt have been possible for a replacement 
cheque to clear until after the bank reopened on 29 December 2020. However, I appreciate Mr E might have been spared some of the worry of wondering about the cheque and what 
action he should now take during that time. 
Mr E then had to call HSBC twice on 29 December 2020 and it was only after these calls 
that HSBC took meaningful action in relation to the missing cheque. I can see that Mr E was 
promised on several occasions that someone from HSBC would be in contact with him, but 
this didnt happen until 30 December 2020. 
I think the errors made by HSBC here are that it should have done more to assist Mr E from 
24 December 2020. And it should have phoned him when it said it would, or contacted him in 
another way when attempts to call him were made but staff couldnt get through. HSBC has 
already awarded Mr E £50 compensation for not phoning him back. Its important to note that 
this service doesnt punish businesses for making errors. This service looks at any distress 
or inconvenience the errors made by the business had on the consumer. 
Although I know my decision will disappoint Mr E, Im think the compensation already offered 
by HSBC is fair compensation for the inconvenience and distress he experienced when he 
wasnt contacted by HSBC after being told this would happen and for the number of calls he 
had to make before HSBC took action to sort this matter out. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman