DRN-3580875
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited under his home 
emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter last month, part of which is copied below:
Mr R had a HomeCare policy with British Gas that included repairs to his home electrics. A 
British Gas engineer attended Mr Rs property in December 2020 as he had a problem with 
a light switch on the landing. The engineer said he couldnt repair the switch without causing 
some damage as it had been plastered over. Mr R wanted to know how much damage he 
would make and whod be responsible for repairing it. The engineer couldnt say how much 
damage would be caused and he left the property without repairing the fault. 
Mr R complained to British Gas. He said the engineer had been rude and difficult, hed left 
without completing the job and hed left a note about an electrical safety issue without 
discussing that with him. Mr R paid a third-party to complete the repair and he asked British 
Gas to reimburse him for that cost. He also asked it to reimburse him for the cost hed 
incurred in travelling to and from the property, which was a rental property. And 
compensation for the time hed wasted and the inconvenience it had caused.
British Gas agreed that its engineer had been unable to give simple information or offer any 
reassurance about the extent of the damage that would be caused. It said it was very sorry 
for the stress and inconvenience these issues had caused and said it would pay Mr R £155 
to reimburse him for the cost of the third-party engineer who repaired the electrical fault. It 
said it wouldnt normally consider travel costs as part of the HomeCare cover but said it was 
happy to pay £120 on this occasion as a gesture of goodwill. Mr R wasnt happy with this 
response so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think British Gas needed to do anything more. He didnt think the 
engineer had acted unreasonably in not being able to say how much damage would be 
caused to the switch and not carrying out the repairs. He also thought British Gas had done 
enough to make Mr R aware of any danger. He noted that it had accepted it had provided a 
poor service and compensated him for that. He thought that offer was fair. 
As Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. He said he wanted to focus on British Gass policies and practices, 
particularly the way it handles complaints. He also wanted to focus on the obstructive nature 
of its engineers and the general service it provides. Mr R said British Gas should pay him a 
total of about £1,600 for his lost time, his travel costs and for the repair work he had to pay 
for.  
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can see that Mr R is concerned about the approach taken by other engineers hes had 
contact with, and other occasions when hes contacted British Gas. But my decision will only 
focus on the events of December 2020 and Mr Rs complaint about those issues. British Gas 
investigated and responded to those issues and I dont think it would be fair to consider other 
matters it hasnt had an opportunity to consider. 
I can also see that Mr R is concerned with the way British Gas handled his complaint, and 
with the way it handles complaints more generally. As complaints handlings isnt a regulated 
activity that falls within the remit of this service, Im not able to consider those matters. 
The root cause of Mr Rs complaint is the service provided by a British Gas engineer who 
attended his property in December 2020. The engineer noted that the switch he was being 
asked to repair was plastered over and he was unable to remove it without causing damage 
to the plasterwork around it. The note adds that Mr R was rude. For his part, Mr R says the 
engineer was rude, difficult and refused to engage with him. He says the engineer couldnt 
say how much damage would be caused or whether he would repair or make good any 
damage that was caused.  
Whatever was said, the engineer left the property without repairing the switch. He also left 
paperwork about an electrical safety issue, which Mr R believes should have been discussed 
with him.
Theres no recording of the conversation between Mr R and the engineer and no 
independent evidence to support one persons word against the other. It would be difficult to 
make a judgement about who was right or wrong in a situation like this. But I dont think I 
need to. British Gas has agreed that the engineer didnt provide a good service. Its 
apologised, provided a total of £275 for the costs he incurred and the distress and 
inconvenience caused. And said it would take up the issue with the engineer as part of 
ongoing training and development. So, I dont think I need to say anything more about the 
incident itself. The outstanding issue for me to consider is whether British Gas needs to do 
anything more to put things right. And I think it does. Let me explain why.
If the engineer had provided a better service and repaired the electrical fault on the day, 
Mr R wouldnt have needed to pay a third-party to repair the switch. Mr R said that cost him 
about £155. Although he later said it was £145. British Gas paid him £155 so I think thats 
reasonable and I wouldnt expect it to do any more. 
Mr R also said he had to travel to the property on three occasions and that cost him a total of 
£185.60. Mr R would always have needed to travel to the property at least once, so I dont 
think British Gas should reimburse him for that cost. It paid him £120 for two journeys that 
would otherwise have been unnecessary. And I think thats reasonable. Mr R wouldnt have 
needed to spend those amounts if the engineer had repaired the electrical fault as he should 
have done and so I think its reasonable to expect British Gas to reimburse him for that 
financial loss.
British Gas apologised for the distress and inconvenience it caused but didnt pay any 
compensation for that. And I think it should. British Gass poor service has caused Mr R a 
significant amount of inconvenience. Hes had to arrange for a third-party to repair the 
electrical fault. Hes had to travel to the property when that shouldnt have been necessary. 
And hes had to take time out of his day to pursue the matter with British Gas. Mr R believes 
British Gas should also pay him nearly £1,300 for time he lost dealing with this matter. Hes 
set out the amount of hours hes lost and worked out how much he thinks it should pay him 
per hour. I can understand why Mr R has done that but I dont think its always helpful to list 
all the different ways a consumer has been impacted, with an associated cost for each one, 
as there isnt a formula for calculating the overall impact. The approach this service takes in situations like this is to look at all the circumstances and decide a total figure that we think 
puts right what happened. Having done that in this case, I think an amount of £250 would be 
a reasonable way for British Gas to recognise the impact on Mr R of its poor service. 
My decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im currently intending to uphold Mr Rs complaint and 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay him a further £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused by its poor service. 
Responses to my provisional decision
British Gas didnt think further compensation was justified. It said it hadnt refused to carry 
out the repair and it was Mr Rs choice not to have it done. It didnt agree this situation had 
caused Mr R distress and inconvenience as it had given accurate advice on the day. It had 
highlighted a potential issue and as a result of Mr Rs decision to decline the repair, he had 
to make a further trip to the property. British Gas felt the service it had provided had fully met 
its obligations under the policy Mr R had paid for.
Mr R said he welcomed my provisional decision but disagreed with parts of it. In particular, 
he disagreed with the amount of compensation I had suggested and the reasons for not 
awarding him the £1,300 he believed was justified for the loss of his time and the significant 
service failures he had experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence again, including the points made by British Gas and Mr R, 
Im not persuaded to change my findings.
Ive noted what British Gas has said but I think this contradicts what it said previously in its 
final response to Mr Rs complaint. In that response it agreed with Mr Rs complaint that its 
engineer had been unable to give him simple information or offer any reassurance that the 
work would cause significant damage to his property. It also said the matter would be dealt 
with as part of ongoing training and development, further indicating that the service provided 
hadnt been as good as it should have been. British Gas also apologised for the stress and 
inconvenience these issues had caused Mr R so I dont think its fair to now say it hadnt 
caused any.
As I said in my provisional decision, we dont know what was said on the day and theres no 
independent evidence to support one persons word against the other. But British Gas 
accepted its engineer could have provided a better service. Had they provided more 
reassurances and explained the situation better, I think its more likely than not the outcome 
would have been different and the complaint wouldnt have arisen.
Ive also taken account of what Mr R has said about the level of compensation Ive 
suggested. But having reviewed matters and looking at things in the round, Im satisfied that 
a further £250 is a fair and reasonable amount to ask British Gas to pay Mr R for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
In light of the distress and inconvenience caused by British Gass poor service, I think it should pay Mr R £250 to recognise that impact. That amount is in addition to the £275 it paid 
Mr R previously.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr R a further £250 
for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman