DRN-4261229
The complaint
Mr M says Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers Limited (ASFML) is responsible for the
delay in liquidating his fund holding and remitting the proceeds to his Self-Invested Personal
Pension (SIPP). ASFML disagrees. It says it did not delay the liquidation and did not
delay the remittance, that the latter was delayed because of previous and ongoing failures 
by the SIPP administrator to meet its Anti Money Laundering (AML) requirements, and that 
in any case the payment mistakenly was released earlier than it should have been. 
What happened
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) for this case on 5 July 2023.
The PD summarised the background as follows  
ASFML was the fund manager for the relevant fund(s). Mr Ms holdings in the fund(s)  in
the ASI Global Sustainable & Responsible Inv Eq A Acc and the ASI UK Real Estate Share
Fund Acc A Share OEIC (the holdings)  were within his SIPP. The SIPP therefore held a
corresponding account with ASFML for this purpose, in the name of BW SIPP Trustees
Limited (BW1). The Trust for the SIPP was in the name of Barnett Waddingham SIPP
(BW2), and the Pension Administrator for the SIPP was BW SIPP LLP (BW3). All three
entities were known and noted on the ASFML account.
Available evidence shows the following chronology of key events:
Within ASFMLs operations, BW1s AML verification status was updated/passed in 
February 2021 and BW2 had its AML verification status passed in 2019, but there 
was a need to update BW3s AML verification status in 2021. Also in February 2021, 
ASFML wrote to BW3 requesting evidence (and offering guidance) to complete this.
BW1 first submitted the instruction to liquidate the holdings, and to close the account, 
in September 2021. The instruction had to be resubmitted in October 2021 due to an 
earlier address related issue, and ASFML confirms that the holdings were liquidated 
on 11 October 2021. The proceeds were held pending remittance.
The verification of BW3s AML status remained outstanding, so on 18 October 2021 
ASFML wrote to it to resume the process, and it gave notice that the proceeds could 
not be released until this had been successfully completed. The matter continued into 
November, and ASFML specified that it needed from BW3  additional documents for 
the confirmed entity of Regulated Personal Pension Scheme [item 1]; a completed 
Wolfsberg Questionnaire (WQ), a full list of directors, shareholders and PSC 
[Persons with Significant Control] with their names, addresses and dates of birth 
[item 2]; and an updated structure chart [item 3]. ASFML says it needed this 
information because BW3 was a separate entity to the pension scheme.
ASFML received some information on 18 November but, on 6 December, it wrote to 
BW3 again. It acknowledged what was received on 18 November. It also stated that 
items 2 and 3 had not been received and remained outstanding.
On 7 December BW3 complained about the matter. On 8 December Mr M contacted 
ASFML. He affirmed the complaint and enquired into the cause for delay in the 
remittance. He was given a summary of what was happening between the two firms. 
They spoke again on 15 December and he was told there had been no progress in 
ASFML receiving the information required. It was also clarified to him that the 
holdings had been sold and that the matter to resolve was the AML verification 
before remittance.
ASFML responded to the complaint on 20 January 2022. In its response, it mainly 
reiterated the outstanding AML requirements and that the liquidation proceeds would 
be released after they were successfully met.
In March, ASFML received a response from BW which included a part completed but 
unsigned WQ. BW said information requested was disproportionate to the action 
required in the matter (hence its omission of the inappropriate parts of the WQ), that 
it had met and discharged AML obligations within its operations, and that information 
about it was in Companies Houses records and in the regulators register (links to 
which it included), so all other relevant information required could be obtained there. 
Mr M also made further contacts with ASFML, for updates, in this month.
In early April another complaint about the delayed remittance was raised to ASFML. 
With guidance on the matter, it then determined that it could accept what it had 
received for BW3s AML verification at the time, and on 8 April it updated BW3s AML 
verification status to passed. On 12 April it released the liquidation proceeds.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
She gave reasons for this conclusion, and for the form of redress she proposed. ASFML 
disagreed with her findings. The PD summarised its grounds for doing so as follows  
It mainly said:
It is true that it could have made the discretionary decision earlier, but it is also true 
that it could have rightly withheld its discretion and insisted on its requirements being 
met in full. Upholding the complaint because its discretion could have been applied 
earlier unjustly penalises it for applying its discretion at all, and for doing so in the 
customers interest. The effect of such an uphold is that it will be potentially 
discouraged from doing so in future similar circumstances, and from seeking to meet 
a customers best interest. This seems to set an unhelpful precedent.
The investigators conclusion also applies an arbitrary timescale to the matter, in 
terms of when the remittance would have happened in the scenario she cited.
In terms of referral to its compliance department, it had a procedure to follow and 
exhaust. It was reasonable to follow that procedure and the notion of escalating, 
directly to such a referral, at the first situation that questioned the procedure defeats 
the purpose of having it.
The investigators view is silent on the fact that the remittance happened before it 
should have happened. Mr Ms AML verification was outstanding and should have 
been successfully completed before the remittance, but this was overlooked in error. 
Despite its error in this respect, it is illogical to say it is responsible for a delayed 
remittance which, in fact, happened earlier than it should have.The PD was issued because some of my findings differed from the investigators. However, I 
too concluded that the complaint should be upheld. I said  
The main issues in the complaint are the liquidation of the holdings and remittance of the
proceeds. With regards to the latter, the three sub-issues are  the AML verification required
for BW3, the AML verification required for Mr M and the discretion ASFML eventually applied
to the matter (associated with or including the compliance/AML team referral).
Like the investigator, I too find no wrongdoing on ASFMLs part with regards to liquidation of
the holdings. The delay between the instructions in September and October was not its fault.
The address related issue was important enough to warrant attention and resolution before
the instruction could be carried out. When it was resolved, the liquidation was carried out
without delay.
I agree with the investigators revised view that ASFML was entitled to make the relevant
AML enquiries because the sum of the AML regulations and guidance it was following gave
it a basis to do so. Having said this, it is also a matter of fact that Mr Ms complaint is about
the liquidation instruction and the remittance delay  as he set out in his letter of 24 June
2022.
I highlight this in order to set the correct context for the findings that follow in this decision. I
accept that ASFML was entitled to make relevant and required AML enquiries. However, this
decision is not about appraising its AML verifications process in general or in the present
case. With regards to determining responsibility for the delay that Mr M has complained
about, attention should be given to the factual events and to how ASFML conducted its
enquiries.
First, I consider the AML verification for Mr M that ASFML omitted to complete. The fact is
that the remittance was made without this completion, so the implication is there was room
for this to happen. ASFML must have had discretion and/or capacity for error to make the
payment without completing verification for Mr M. It appears to say the latter was the case,
and I consider that to have also been broadly under its discretion. To argue otherwise would
be to say ASFML committed a breach of its AML responsibilities by making the payment in
these circumstances  it seems that it either had a form of discretion to make the payment or
it did so in breach. I have not quite seen such a concession from it and, I repeat, it is beyond
the remit of the complaint to appraise its AML verification process.
The payment was released without AML verification for Mr M because ASFML appears to
have had broad discretion to do that. This suggests there was no absolute requirement, in
the specific circumstances of this case, that meant it had to be released later (after such
verification) or not at all (without such verification). In this context, the argument that it was
released early appears to fall away. Even if it is argued that the payment could have been
released later, after the verification, the fact remains that its release did not have to await
that because there was broad discretion not to do so.
A similar analysis applies to the AML verification required for BW3. It is a matter of fact that,
in the end, BW3 did not meet all the requirements ASFML presented to it. The rights and
wrongs of that are irrelevant to the complaint because it is also a fact that ASFML took the
discretionary decision that it could proceed with the remittance based on what it had at the
time. As the investigator considered, it is therefore important to take a view on when this
decision was applied and whether (or not) it could and/or ought reasonably to have been
reached and applied earlier.
On balance, I am persuaded that it ought reasonably to have been considered, reached and
applied earlier, and I repeat reference to ASFMLs concession that it could have beenapplied earlier.
Its decision was applied in early April 2022.
ASFML had asked for items 1, 2 and 3. As of 18 November 2021, items 2 and 3 were
outstanding. By the end of March 2022 only a part completed and unsigned WQ was
received, and BW3 essentially directed ASFML to obtain information elsewhere to satisfy the
other requests in item 2 and the request in item 3. This remained the situation, in terms of
receipts from BW3, up to the point the payment was released in April. Overall, the main
difference between what ASFML had received by 18 November 2021 and by March/April
2022 was the partly completed unsigned WQ. For the reasons I consider below, this was not
a meaningful difference.
ASFML shared with us some internal communications, with its AML team, showing the
reasoning it applied in deciding to proceed with the payment release despite BW3 not
meeting most of its requests. The communications including the following 
Would it be fair to say then that weve verified the Pension Admin on the strength of what
theyve provided to date (the partial Wolfsberg and accompanying explanation and
documents), but that this can ultimately be seen as a discretionary decision?
Yes I am comfortable that we have sufficiently verified the Pension Administrator on the
basis that we can verify them on the FCA register (which they also confirmed via email) and
they have provided an explanation as to why parts of the Wolfsberg questionnaire were left
incomplete as a result of those questions not being applicable to them. Although they did not
provide the structure chart, I was able to use the links they provided to Companies House to
evidence that BW SIPP LLP is part of Barnett Waddingham LLP, another FCA regulated
firm. On this basis, I was comfortable to accept the documents provided for the Pension
Administrator without the need for further documentation to be requested.
By its own admission most of the information (outside the WQ) it sought could have been
obtained by ASFML through the regulator and Companies House, and there was no need for
further documentation beyond that. There is even more detailed correspondence with the
AML team which further illustrates this finding.
With regards to the WQ, it presented over 110 questions to BW3. This was so because
some of 110 main questions were divided into sub-questions. Out of all these questions,
BW3 appears to have answered only 12 of them  those being questions about its legal
name/address/legal entity identifier, its date of incorporation, its share ownership, whether
(or not) it operated under an Offshore Banking License, its regulator, its business areas and
the number of its employees. As stated earlier, the WQ was returned unsigned.
In the end, ASFML accepted the returned WQ as it was. The implication arising from that, in
the wider context it described in the above quote, is that whilst it was entitled to make AML
enquiries in the case, the vast majority of the WQ fell outside what was relevant. If it disputes
this finding a point similar to that mentioned previously arises  it seems that the vast
majority of the WQ, which was not completed, was irrelevant or, if it was, then ASFML
committed a breach by accepting the WQ without completion of that vast majority (and
without it being signed). Again, I am not appraising its AML process, so I do not make any
finding on the latter, but it is an obvious implication that should be noted.
Another finding on the WQ is that its partial completion contained information, as
summarised above, that would have been accessible in the corporate and regulatory records 
that ASFML ended up using. Their presentation within the WQ was not unique.Based on all the above, an argument that might be made is that the remittance delay
happened mainly because ASFML waited for items 2 and 3 until April 2022, that it ought not
to have done that, and it should have acted earlier to obtain information matching both items
elsewhere, as it eventually did.
I am mindful of ASFMLs point about making findings that defeat the purpose of having its
AML process in place, and its point that it would be unreasonable to expect the process to
be abandoned at its first challenge. I agree that its process had the legitimate purpose of
discharging its AML responsibilities and I do not seek to diminish that purpose. However, it is
the purpose that was/is paramount, so the point to address is not about abandoning the
process at the first sight of challenge, but about whether (or not) it ought reasonably to have
been adjusted earlier to address problems and to achieve the purpose. This is essentially
what ASFML eventually did when it adjusted its application of the process to conclude the
verification, and then to remit the sale proceeds.
Its request for information in October 2021 was reasonable, especially as that was a follow-
up to its previous request (made even before Mr Ms case arose). It was also reasonable for
it to pursue the request up to its email on 12 November, because it had received nothing by
that point.
By 18 November item 1 appears to have been satisfied, so at this point only items 2 and 3
were outstanding, and it asked for these on 6 December. Shortly thereafter, in the same
month and crucially (in my view) problems arose in the form of the following  on 7
December BW3 complained (on its and Mr Ms behalf) about the matter, it considered that
most of the information ASFML was asking for was already available or accessible; on 8
December Mr M contacted ASFML, and did so again seven days after, in both contacts he
affirmed the complaint and expressed his concerns about the matter.
The facts show that, in the end, BW3 was correct, because by April 2022, and other than
submitting the unsigned and minimally completed WQ, it had done no more since 18
November 2021, yet its verification was successfully completed. This should not be viewed
as a criticism of ASFMLs decision to apply its discretion. What it did is commendable. The
problem is that it delayed in doing it, without good reasons for the delay. The period between
the complaints in December 2021 and the verification completion in April 2022 mainly
featured both firms adopting broadly unyielding positions, then at the tail end of this period
ASFML essentially acknowledged that it had and/or could have obtained enough information
to complete verification all along.
ASFML could say the WQ was not received until the end of March 2022, so this has been
omitted from the statement above. I consider that the facts show that the WQ was devalued
in this case. Only 12 of over 110 questions in it were answered. Those answers contained
basic information related to BW3 that was already previously available and/or accessible in
regulatory and corporate records. The WQ was not even signed or dated.
Overall and for the above reasons, I consider that BW3s complaint on 7 December 2021
and Mr Ms contact the following day to affirm the complaint were pivotal events. They
brought to ASFMLs attention that its verification process was facing a notable problem, one
in which Mr Ms interests were at stake. At the heart of the problem was information it
required about BW3, so that was the issue to address. The impression given by available
evidence is that it initially misdirected itself, it lost sight of the true task and instead it focused
on insisting that BW3 comply with its demands. Eventually, it acknowledged that obtaining
requisite information, alone, was the true task and that it already had such information and/or
already had access to such information.
It follows from these findings that ASFML should have reacted differently to the complaints of7 and 8 December. There is evidence from it that says 
We received an email from BW SIPP LLP on 28 March 2022 providing a completed
Wolfsberg Questionnaire and some additional information for the company. These details,
along with the previously received documents, were referred to our Head Office AML team to
review in line with our corporate AML verification requirements. Having reviewed the
documents provided by BW SIPP LLP and established that these were acceptable in order
to verify them, we updated their AML status to Passed on 8 April 2022 and the proceeds
were released via BACS on 12 April 2022.
Within what is described above was an email from BW received by ASFML on 5 April 2022,
making broadly the same point as had been made in the 7 December 2021 complaint. It
treated the email as a complaint, and on the same day it began to liaise with its AML team
for guidance on how to resolve the matter. Evidence of its communications with the AML
team between 5 and 8 April has been shared with us. Like the quote above says, by 8 April
the team approved the updating of BW3s AML status to passed.
On balance, I am persuaded that something similar should have been done from 8
December 2021, at the latest. Two complaints had been received between 7 and 8
December and the core message to ASFML at the time was broadly the same as it remained
up to the complaint on 5 April 2022. The second complaint prompted meaningful action by
ASFML, and I consider that the first should have done the same. As I said above, obtaining
the required information was the true task. It is evident in its internal communications with
the AML team between 5 and 8 April that focus was rightly on this task and the contents of
the communication show how the relevant existing, identified, accessible and identifiable
information was considered, up to the point that they could be satisfied to pass BW3s AML
verification. The same could and should have happened in response to the first complaint.
ASFML reacted to the complaint of 5 April immediately, by contacting its AML team for
guidance, by 8 April the issue had been resolved and by 12 April the remittance happened.
That, including the first and last dates, amounted to four working days to resolve the AML
verification and six working days to reach the point of remittance. Had the same or similar
been done from 8 December  in response to the complaints on 7 and 8 December  it is
reasonable to conclude that the same periods of time (four and six working days, including
the first and last dates) would probably have been used to resolve the verification issue and
to remit the relevant proceeds. In other words, the remittance would probably have
happened on 15 December 2021.
Both parties were invited to comment on the PD. Mr M mainly said he accepted the PD and 
its findings, but he also holds the views that the provisional compensation, in the PD, for the 
trouble and upset caused to him  £200  is insufficient, and that the same applies to the 
PDs award for financial loss.  
ASFML agrees with the £200 trouble and upset compensation. However, it says it strongly 
disagrees with the PDs other findings because  
In the PD, I showed uncertainty about whether (or not) there had been an error in the 
remittance being actioned despite having no AML verification for Mr M. The 
remittance was definitely done in error, it should not have happened, had its 
procedure been properly followed it would not have happened and, contrary to the 
PDs finding, it did not happen as a matter of discretion. This therefore supports its 
contentions that, overall, the remittance was not delayed and that it was made earlier 
than it should have been made.
The PD repeatedly acknowledges that it is beyond its scope to appraise ASFMLs verification process, yet it simultaneously  suggests that [ASFML] should have 
softened [its] requirements at an earlier date than otherwise would have been the 
case. 
Any discretionary decision taken by abrdn is considered individually on a case-by-
case basis and should be considered only when attempts to submit acceptable AML 
documentation have been exhausted as a last resort. There is a clear level of risk 
attached to releasing monies to an unverified party and, as you know, abrdn are 
obligated to protect our investors from such risks and we treat these duties with the 
utmost importance. The Wolfsberg Questionnaire and additional details provided by 
BW SIPP LLP which allowed us to verify them were not received until 28 March 
2022; it was not until we had received this additional information that our AML team 
were able to make an informed decision to verify BW SIPP LLP on a discretionary 
basis. There is nothing to suggest that we had received enough information from BW 
SIPP LLP at the time of their complaint on 7 December 2021 which would have 
allowed us to verify them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the complaint and the PD in light of both parties comments. Having done 
so, I retain the findings and conclusions in the PD, and I incorporate them into the present 
decision.
With regards to redress and compensation, the PD said  
 I will award redress to Mr M in the form of interest  to compensate for the delay in 
having access to his funds (in the remittance)  to be calculated at the rate of 8% simple per 
year between 15 December 2021 (when the funds should have been released to his SIPP) 
and 12 April 2022 (when the funds were eventually released to his SIPP).
I also endorse the investigators award of £200 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr M.
There is evidence that he was actively involved in the overall pursuit to resolve the delayed
remittance and that he contacted ASFML several times between December 2021 and March
2022. This would have been an ongoing source of trouble and upset for him, whilst it lasted
and I consider that an award of £200 will fairly compensate him for that.
Mr Ms view about redress is that the interest payment does not fully cover the consequence 
of not receiving the remittance in time for its intended purpose. Whilst there is evidence of 
the delay in releasing the proceeds, and therefore evidence that the same delay affected 
access to his funds, there is a lack of evidence to show a specific financial loss incurred with 
regards to subsequent use of the proceeds  and a lack of evidence that any such loss 
resulted directly and mainly from the delayed access. Furthermore, and depending on the 
circumstances, an additional consideration could be whether (or not) any such specific 
financial loss, if proven, was sufficiently foreseeable to ASFML to make it liable for redress  
this too has not been established. 
For these reasons, I consider it fair to limit redress to what the PD set out.
As I reflected and acknowledged in the PD, Mr M played a part in contacting ASFML to 
progress the remittance. However, it is also fair to say that the main contacts in this respect 
were made by BW3 and BW. This included the two complaints they submitted on his behalf. 
Overall, I consider that their involvement (on his behalf) had the effect of mitigating the trouble and upset he directly endured. In this context, I am satisfied that £200 is fair 
compensation for the extent of trouble and upset he faced in the matter.
I now turn to ASFMLs comments.
As I included in the quoted summary above, my findings on the release of funds despite the 
absence of Mr Ms AML verification were that   the remittance was made without this 
completion, so the implication is there was room for this to happen; ASFML must have had 
discretion and/or capacity for error to make the payment without completing verification for 
Mr M. It appears to say the latter was the case, and I consider that to have also been broadly 
under its discretion; This suggests there was no absolute requirement, in the specific 
circumstances of this case, that meant it had to be released later (after such verification) or 
not at all (without such verification); In this context, the argument that it was released early 
appears to fall away; Even if it is argued that the payment could have been released later, 
after the verification, the fact remains that its release did not have to await that because 
there was broad discretion not to do so.
The above shows that I was not unsure about whether (or not) there had been an error in 
releasing the payment without AML verification for Mr M. This was clearly presented in 
ASFMLs submissions and I reflected it in the PD. However, I found that, in a broad sense, 
ASFMLs error happened broadly under its discretion. As I further stated, the fact that the 
release happened means it could happen, despite the missing verification. 
I understand ASFMLs point in this issue. It is not unreasonable for it to argue that, but for 
the error, the release should not have happened. However, it is a different argument to say 
the release happened earlier than it would have, but for the error. 
First, I repeat that the facts show the release happened when it did because it could. If 
ASFMLs operation was such that, despite any human error, the release could not be 
processed without Mr Ms AML verification on its system, then the release would not have 
happened. This is why I considered in the PD that there was capacity, or an implicit broad 
discretion, that allowed for the payment to be released despite the error.
Secondly, the error only establishes a failure to conduct the verification prior to payment. It 
does not automatically establish that, without the error, the verification would certainly or 
probably have delayed the payment beyond 12 April 2022. ASFML should arguably have 
resolved Mr Ms verification earlier than this. The verification is not something that arose 
afresh in April 2022. Starting from October 2021 and up to March 2022 ASFML had at least 
around five months (prior to April 2022) within which to complete it. 
The third point to note is that if, as the PD found (and as I address next), BW3s AML 
verification was concluded in December 2021 as it should have, and even if Mr Ms AML 
verification remained outstanding at that time, I have not seen evidence to show that it would 
have taken over four months (up to and beyond April 2022) to complete that verification.  It is 
more likely (than not) that it would have been completed relatively promptly. 
In other words, in the full context of the case and given the combined implications of the 
three points above, the error that ASFML refers to does not, on its own, establish that the 
payment in April 2022 was made earlier than it should or would have been.
The third point above might prompt ASFML to argue that a need to await completion of      
Mr Ms AML verification in, and possibly after, December 2021 defeats the PDs finding that 
the payment should have been released on 15 December 2021. I would disagree. As noted 
in the second point above, ASFML had the responsibility to conclude Mr Ms AML verification 
and it had time from October 2021 to do so. It is not unreasonable to say it ought to have done so before or by 15 December 2021, given that the process would probably have been 
comparatively easier to apply for him, as an individual, than for BW3. As such, I do not find 
that there would (or should) have been a need to await completion of Mr Ms AML 
verification as of 15 December 2021.
The PD did not quite say or suggest that ASFML should have softened [its] requirements at 
an earlier date than otherwise would have been the case. 
I consider that the findings quoted above show that my analysis in the PD was based upon 
identifying what ASFML did in April 2022 to conclude the verification and remittance, 
identifying the circumstances that led to what it did in that month, and then considering 
whether (or not) the same or comparable circumstances existed earlier. I found that the 
circumstances in April 2022 which led directly to it passing BW3s AML verification and 
releasing Mr Ms payment were broadly the same as, or comparable to, those in December 
2021. I set out the reasons for this finding (also quoted above). On this basis, it was and is 
apparent that ASFML could have acted in December as it did in April and, on balance, I 
found that it should have.
The issue was/is not about ASFML softening its requirement earlier than otherwise would 
have been the case. The PD showed, with evidence (including evidence from within ASFML 
and from its submissions) that most of the requirements it put to BW3 and continued to 
pursue in 2022 were arguably redundant. By late 2021 the information it sought was already 
received and already available or already accessible elsewhere. This included the 
information sought in the WQ, which as a matter of fact (and for reasons given in the PD) 
was essentially devalued in the present case. 
ASFML says The Wolfsberg Questionnaire and additional details provided by BW SIPP LLP 
which allowed us to verify them were not received until 28 March 2022; it was not until we 
had received this additional information that our AML team were able to make an informed 
decision to verify BW SIPP LLP on a discretionary basis. There is nothing to suggest that we 
had received enough information from BW SIPP LLP at the time of their complaint on 7 
December 2021 which would have allowed us to verify them.
I disagree with this statement. I repeat, in the present case the WQ was devalued for the 
reasons given in the PD. The PD, as quoted on pages 5 and 6 of this decision, also set out 
the reasons why ASFML ought reasonably to have been in a position to verify BW3 and 
process the remittance by December 2021. I do not consider that it has said anything in its 
comments that shows this conclusion and the reasons behind it are wrong.
Putting things right
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I conclude that he is due redress for financial loss and 
compensation for trouble and upset, both arising from the complaint.
I order ASFML to do as follows:
Calculate the total interest that would accrue on the full amount remitted to Mr Ms 
SIPP on 12 April 2022, at the rate of 8% simple per year between 15 December 2021 
(when the funds should have been released to his SIPP) and 12 April 2022 (when the 
funds were eventually released to his SIPP). [the redress amount]
Pay the redress amount to Mr M to cover his financial loss caused by being deprived 
access to the remittance between the above dates.
Make this payment to Mr M within 28 days of receiving notice of his acceptance of this decision. If ASFML does not make the payment to him within this period it must 
pay him the redress amount, and interest on the redress amount at the rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date of this decision up to the date redress is settled and 
paid to him. This is to compensate him for any undue settlement delay by ASFML. 
Pay Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset the complaint matter has caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I order Aberdeen Standard Fund 
Managers Limited to calculate and pay him redress and compensation as set out above, and 
to provide him with its calculations in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman