DRN-3361627
The complaint
Mr J says that a Lloyds Bank PLC account was fraudulently opened in his name and is 
unhappy that he has been held liable for the outstanding debt on that account.
What happened
Mr J received a letter from another bank, which Ill call B, saying it had identified that a loan 
had been fraudulently opened in his name, B confirmed it would be removing details 
regarding this loan from Mr Js credit file. At the same time, B contacted Lloyds as the funds 
from the loan had been paid into a Lloyds account in Mr Js name. As a result, Lloyds wrote 
to Mr J to say that it would be closing this account. 
But Mr J says he didnt know anything about the account  he says someone else mustve 
opened it without his permission. Mr J told Lloyds he wasnt responsible for the account, so 
he doesnt think he should be held liable for the outstanding balance of the account.
Lloyds said it had investigated the matter and it had no reason to suspect the application for 
the account wasnt genuine. It said it had sent the debit card and PIN to Mr Js normal 
address and that the card and PIN had been used to identify Mr J when an overdraft limit 
increase was applied for in branch.
Our investigator looked into the matter, and based on what theyd seen, they didnt think it 
was unreasonable for Lloyds to hold Mr J liable for the outstanding balance.
Mr J didnt agree. He said it was clear that an act of fraud had been committed against him 
as B had already accepted this, and he had reported what had happened to the police and 
Action Fraud. He said the way the account was used should have flagged to Lloyds that 
something was wrong, and that no evidence has been provided to show that he did make 
any of the payments out of the account.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons.
The account was opened online in June 2020 and the applicant went on to provide Mr Js 
name, date of birth, national insurance number, employers name, mobile phone number, 
and his home address. Lloyds says it carried out its usual online process to verify Mr Js 
identity. And it sent the bank card and PIN code separately, by post, which would also help 
to ensure the application was genuine.
Mr J says he never received either the debit card or the PIN, so he didnt know an account 
had been opened in his name. But he also says that no outside party could have access to 
his post. So its difficult to see how both the card and the PIN could have been intercepted 
and kept from Mr J  theres no clear point of compromise where an external individual could 
have taken the letters containing the card and PIN.
I also think its unusual to see a fraudster use so much correct information when opening an 
account. I particularly cant see why they would use Mr Js legitimate mobile phone number, 
and then not go on to change or remove that number from the account, when having his real 
phone number on the account would increase the risk of Mr J finding out about the account.
I also note that the pattern of use on the account is not what I would usually expect from a 
fraudster. For a number of months there were credits as well as debits to the account  and I 
note that some of the credits had part of Mr Js address as a reference. And as well as 
withdrawals at cash machines there were also faster payments to individuals and debit card 
payments to retailers, the DVLA and to the land registry. This isnt the way we would usually 
expect a fraudster to use an account.
In January 2021 the overdraft limit on the account was increased from £500 to £1,700, and 
this increase was done in branch where the card and PIN would have been used. In 
February 2021 the loan from B was then paid into the account, and over the next week or so 
the loan funds and the overdraft limit were used up through a series of faster payments, 
cash withdrawals, and debit card payments. But this pattern of spending was consistent with 
the way the account had been used since it was opened, so I dont think Lloyds should have 
identified here that there was potentially something wrong.
I appreciate that Mr J says there is no proof that he made any of the payments out of the 
account, but given that some of them were made with the legitimate card and PIN, for the 
reasons set out above, Ive not seen any clear evidence that someone else carried out the 
transactions on the account. I do note that the cash machine withdrawals were made at a 
location around an hour away from where Mr J lives, but I dont think that in itself means he 
couldnt have made them.
I also acknowledge that B has accepted the loan was opened fraudulently, but Lloyds is 
entitled to carry out its own investigations.
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr J hoped for. But, taking into account everything Ive seen,
I cant say Lloyds has done anything wrong. With the evidence available, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Lloyds to hold Mr J liable for the outstanding balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman