DRN-2320101
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with what Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd did after he made a claim on his 
gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N took out gadget insurance with Bastion in August 2019. Towards the end of December 
2019 he made a claim on his policy. Bastion said Mr N hadnt validated his phone in line with 
the terms of his policy and turned down the claim. Mr N accepted he hadnt done that 
because he missed information in a welcome email he was sent about this. But he 
questioned why Bastion hadnt sent him a reminder and said it wasnt fair hed continued to 
pay for an invalid policy. 
Our investigator thought the requirement to provide validation information was clear from the 
information provided to Mr N when he took the policy out. And he didnt agree the policy was 
invalid because Mr N could still have provided the information to validate his device at a later 
date (prior to the need for any claim to be made). 
Mr N didnt agree. He continued to feel it was unfair hed continued to pay for a policy he 
could never have claimed on. A second investigator reviewed the complaint. She agreed Mr 
N hadnt met the validation requirements of the policy so thought his claim had been fairly 
turned down. But she thought Bastion had never been at risk of a valid claim being made on 
the policy so it was unfair of it to retain the premiums Mr N had paid for this. She said these 
should be refunded to Mr N. 
Neither side responded to her recommendation. So in order to bring the matter to a close I 
need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Bastion has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive looked first at the policy terms. I can see these include conditions which say within 
seven days of cover starting the policyholder must provide a number of things. That includes 
photographic evidence that Your Gadget(s) are in a good and operational state. For a 
mobile phone a policyholder also needs to supply a photograph of Your IMEI number clearly 
displayed on Your mobile phone. The terms go on to explain that if a policyholder fails to 
validate prior to raising a claim that claim will be denied.
In this case I dont think its in dispute Mr N didnt meet the validation requirements. So he 
hasnt done what the policy says. And while the product information document (which 
Bastion is responsible for) doesnt refer to providing a photograph of the IMEI number it does 
include the requirement to provide us with photographic evidence that your gadget is in a 
good and operational state. It appears Mr N was in any case aware of those requirements 
because hes accepted he received a welcome email which contained information about this.  
And I think it was fair of Bastion to turn down the claim because Mr N didnt provide 
information showing the condition of the phone. Not providing that information means 
Bastion doesnt have evidence to show the state of the phone at the point the policy was 
taken out. That means its not been able to establish what the pre-accident condition of the 
phone was.
But while I think Bastion was entitled to turn down the claim Mr N made I understand he 
never had a device registered on this policy. And, under the terms of the policy, until he did 
so he could never have made a successful claim. So he was effectively paying for cover that 
would never be of benefit to him  meaning there was no risk to Bastion. 
I think thats supported by the policy terms themselves which say if proof of ownership 
(which includes the IMEI validation information) isnt provided within seven days of the start 
date this may result in the cancellation of the policy and the return of the premium to You. 
Taking that into account I dont think its fair for Bastion to retain the premiums Mr N paid for 
a period when there was no device registered against the policy. So it will need to return the 
premiums taken while that was the case. If the policy is still in force and Mr N doesnt 
register a device against it then in line with the policy terms Bastion can cancel the policy.  
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd will need to refund 
the premiums Mr N paid for the period when there was no device registered against the 
policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman