DRN-4457769
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Highway Insurance Company Limited declined a claim they 
made under their home insurance policy for roof damage.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise my findings.
Mr and Mrs C got in touch with Highway after water came into their house through 
the roof. Highway had the damage inspected by T, who said the flat roof was quite 
old, had water pooling on it, and so water may have got in there.
Highway accepted there had been storm conditions. But it said the nature of the 
damage and the condition of the flat roof meant the storm had merely highlighted 
maintenance problems. So that damage wasnt covered by the policy. It noted the 
internal water damage was covered under the accidental damage section of the 
policy and invited Mr and Mrs C to let it know if they wanted to claim for that.
Our investigator thought Highway had acted fairly based on the condition of the roof 
and the extent of the weather conditions.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed. They said the leak wasnt in the area of the flat roof or 
pooling water  so they didnt think the focus on the condition of this part of the roof 
was relevant or fair. They said the damage was to the side of the house, along the 
edge of the angled roof. They provided further information to support their position.
This included a pre-purchase survey from 2021, which was carried out by a reputable 
surveying organisation. In summary, aside from the flat roof and chimney stack, it 
said the roof coverings were in a good condition. And comments from their roofer, 
who said the flat roof wasnt the cause of the damage  the edge of the roof to the 
main house was. They said that during high wind, the roof tiles had become 
dislodged and lifted, which allowed water ingress.
Our investigator shared this information with Highway and invited it to comment. It 
didnt do so by the deadline set.
The policy covers damage by storm. Theres no dispute the weather conditions 
amounted to a storm. There were winds of 53mph and rainfall of up to 6mm an hour 
and 20mm a day. The question is whether the storm was the main cause of the 
damage to the roof.
The roofer explained how the storm conditions caused the roof damage and how that 
led to the internal damage. The pre-purchase survey shortly before the damage 
didnt identify any problems with this part of the roof, suggesting there were no signs 
of wear and tear. The only evidence provided by Highway is Ts report, which merely 
says water may have been getting in through the flat roof and doesnt seem to have 
considered the rest of the roof. I dont find that as persuasive as the information 
provided by Mr and Mrs C. The roofer carried out repairs to the edge of the main roof 
and I understand there has been no further water problems since.
As a result, Im satisfied the external and internal damage was likely caused by the 
storm conditions  so Highway should accept the claim and settle it.
Mr and Mrs C paid £2,050 for the roof repairs and carried out the internal 
redecoration themselves. To settle the claim, Highway should pay this amount, less 
the excess, which I understand is £200, plus interest.
I also think Highway should pay compensation. The claim wasnt considered very 
thoroughly and, as a result, it was declined without a full understanding of the 
damage and its cause. This led to a delay reaching a fair position with the claim and 
caused some avoidable distress and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs C, including 
carrying out some of the work themselves.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Highway didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs C did. They said they accepted it but asked whether Id considered that they 
carried out some of the work themselves.
The investigator confirmed that I did so. I took it into account when thinking about 
compensation. I dont think it would be fair to ask Highway to pay the estimated cost of 
having the work carried out professionally, as thats not a cost Mr and Mrs C incurred.
As neither party has challenged or commented on my provisional decision, I see no reason 
to depart from it. I remain satisfied its fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C also said they paid the invoice on 5 June 2023. Highway is entitled to ask for 
evidence of this if it wishes or it can use that date to help calculate the interest payable on 
the claim settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Highway Insurance Company Limited to:
Settle the claim by paying £1,850.
Pay interest on this amount at 8% simple per year, from the date Mr and Mrs C paid 
the invoice to the date of settlement*.
Pay £250 compensation**.
*If Highway considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
**Highway must pay the award within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs C 
accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the award from 
the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman