DRN-2951154
The complaint
Miss G complains that NewDay Limited wont refund to her the money that she paid for a 
sofa. 
What happened
Miss G used a credit card provided by NewDay in May 2018 to pay £207 towards the total 
cost of £3,707 for a new sofa. The sofa was delivered to her in July 2018 but it was faulty so 
the supplier agreed to replace it. The replacement was delivered in October 2018 but Miss G 
says that it was also faulty and that a wall was damaged during the delivery. 
The supplier agreed to collect the sofa and to refund Miss G for the cost of it but Miss G said 
that she wouldnt accept the removal of the sofa unless she was also compensated for the 
damage. Miss G then made a claim to NewDay under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 but it said that if she allowed the supplier to collect the sofa and make a full refund her 
claim would be closed due to there being no breach of contract. It said that it wouldnt be 
liable for any consequential losses but it did pay her £60 for its delay in dealing with her 
claim.
Miss G wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
initially didnt uphold her complaint because she said that the breach would be remedied by 
the suppliers offer to take the sofa and provide a refund. She said that it wouldnt be 
NewDays responsibility to pay for any repairs or consequential losses and that Miss G 
should pursue the supplier for the cost of the damage repairs.
The sofa wasnt collected from Miss G and she didnt receive a refund and our investigator 
then said that NewDay should refund the full cost of the sofa, including any deposits, and 
arrange collection of the sofa from Miss Gs address. She said that shed not been provided 
with the cost to repair the damage so wouldnt be asking NewDay to compensate Miss G for 
that unless she provided some quotes or a receipt showing what the cost was.
NewDay has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that it 
initially rejected Miss Gs claim as the supplier had agreed to assist her by replacing the sofa 
but she claimed that the replacement was also faulty. It says that Miss G hasnt provided any 
evidence of the faults with the replacement sofa and, as it wasnt a party to the second 
contract, it has no liability for reimbursing her. It also says that its seen no evidence to show 
that the delivery team damaged Miss Gs property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Miss Gs complaint about NewDay, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the sofa and 
that NewDays response to her claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but 
Im not determining the outcome of Miss Gs claim under section 75 as only a court 
would be able to do that;
I consider it to be clear that the sofa that was delivered to Miss G in July 2018 was 
faulty and that the supplier agreed to replace it;
the replacement sofa was also faulty and the supplier agreed to collect it and to 
refund to Miss G for the full cost of the sofa;
Miss G says that damage to a wall was caused when the replacement sofa was 
delivered  shes provided a photo of that damage and said that she wanted the 
damage to be paid for before the sofa was collected;
our investigator has said that Miss G hadnt provided a receipt or quotes for the cost 
of the repair to the damage and that, without it, she wouldnt be asking NewDay to 
compensate Miss G for that cost;
Ive not seen that Miss G has provided a receipt or quotes for the cost of that repair 
and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require NewDay 
to take any action in relation to that damage;
there have been issues between Miss G and the supplier about the collection of the 
sofa so it hasnt been collected from Miss G and she hasnt received the refund;
I consider that theres been a breach of contract by the supplier as the sofa wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and the replacement sofa that was provided to her also wasnt of 
satisfactory quality;
I consider that a collection of the sofa by the supplier and a full refund would have 
been an appropriate remedy for the breach of contract  but that hasnt happened;
NewDay is jointly liable under section 75 for the suppliers breach of contract and as 
the sofa hasnt been collected from Miss G and she hasnt received a refund, Im not 
persuaded that its response to her claim under section 75 has been fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for NewDay to take the actions set out 
below.
Putting things right
I find that NewDay should refund to Miss G the £3,707 that she paid for the sofa, with 
interest. I also find that it should arrange and pay for the sofa to be collected from Miss G.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint and I order NewDay Limited to:
1. Refund to Miss G the £3,707 that she paid for the sofa.
2. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.3. Arrange and pay for the sofa to be collected from Miss G.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to at 2 above. NewDay must give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if 
she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman