DRN-1627312
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from Aviva Insurance Limited while it handled 
a claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019, some items were stolen from Mr W while he was abroad. These included 
cash; a phone and sunglasses. Mr W got in touch with Aviva on 11 August 2019 to make a 
claim. He sent in a claim form, together with a police report and evidence to support his 
claim.
After looking into Mr Ws claim and getting the Police report translated, Aviva accepted it and 
agreed to settle it in line with the policy terms. Payment was authorised on 5 September 
2019.
Mr W was unhappy with the service hed got from Aviva.  He said hed spent over £60 on 
phone calls from the hotel hed been staying in, while on hold waiting to get through. He said 
he was told upfront that it would take five to ten days for his claim to be paid. But that hed 
had to call many times to chase up progress; he didnt get call backs when theyd been 
promised; hed missed out on a pre-paid training session and a lunch because hed been 
waiting for call-backs. He felt Aviva should pay him at least £200 compensation for the way 
itd handled his claim.
Aviva didnt agree to reimburse Mr W for his phone calls or to pay any compensation. It said 
the longest call it could trace that Mr W had made was around 23 minutes. It felt itd acted in 
line with the timeframes itd given him. Mr W remained unhappy with Avivas handling of his 
claim and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She said the terms and 
conditions made it clear that the costs of phone calls were excluded. Shed listened to all the 
calls between Mr W and Aviva and while she acknowledged it had failed to call him back 
once when it said it would, she didnt think it was reasonable for Mr W to have cancelled his 
training session on this basis. Overall, she felt Aviva had broadly acted in line with its 
timescales and had dealt with the claim fairly and promptly. 
Mr W disagreed. He asked whether providing an itemised bill from the hotel might change 
the outcome of the complaint. He felt it shouldve paid for the phone calls at least. And we 
hadnt seen any of the evidence of the time he spent on hold.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Aviva has treated Mr W fairly. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr W that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and the calls he made, Ive carefully considered everything hes said and sent us. 
Handling of the claim
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. So in making my decision, Ive considered whether I think Aviva 
has done so. And Ive also thought about whether Aviva has treated Mr W fairly.
I appreciate Mr W made many calls to Aviva to chase up the progress of his claim. I can 
understand why this wouldve been very frustrating for him when he was waiting for his claim 
to be reviewed and settled. Ive thought about whether Aviva misled Mr W about how his 
claim was progressing or whether it failed to adhere to the timeframes it gave him.
Mr W told us he accepted most of the investigators findings  but he felt the hotel call costs 
should be paid. I dont think I need to explore each call Mr W made to Aviva in detail. Instead 
Ill focus on the key points which I think are relevant to my decision.
Mr W says he was told the claim would be paid within five to seven days. Ive listened to the 
call hes referred to. I accept the claims advisor did tell Mr W that claims are generally dealt 
with within that timescale once the supporting documents were sent in. But she did explain 
that timescales would depend on how busy Aviva was and what else was going on. She also 
explained that the claims team was very busy at that point. So I think she made it clear that 
the timeframes werent definite and managed Mr Ws expectations appropriately.
When it became clear that Mr Ws claim hadnt been settled within the initial five to seven-
day period, he called to chase up the claim on 20 August 2019. The claims handler told Mr 
W the claim had been put in for processing and that he should hear something within seven 
days - by 27 August 2019.
Mr W chased things up sooner than that though. He called again on 23 August. During that 
call, he was told his claim should be looked at by a night team and he should get an email. 
But he was told if this didnt happen, he should hear something by Monday  which wouldve 
been 26 August. He called again the following day because he hadnt got an email overnight. 
The claims handler did tell Mr W during this call that hed get a call back later that day. That 
call didnt happen. So I can understand why Mr W was disappointed. I dont think though that 
I can reasonably hold Aviva responsible for his decision to cancel his booked training class 
and the consequential costs he incurred. After all, he hadnt agreed a specific time for a call, 
and he couldve let Aviva know he had plans for that particular time. Mr W chased up again 
the next day and was told hed hear something by 26 August, as hed originally been 
informed.
Mr W was contacted by the claims team on 26 August with an update on his claim. So Im 
satisfied that in the round, Aviva did get in touch with Mr W when it said it would. It took a 
few days to fully review his claim and it was accepted on 4 September 2019. Payment was 
authorised and made a few days later. I think the claim was considered and settled 
reasonably promptly and overall, Im persuaded the claim was handled fairly.
Call costs
I can hear from some of the calls that there were times Mr W called Aviva and a recorded 
message explained there were high call volumes. Its also clear that Mr W told many members of staff that hed experienced delays in calls being picked up. But he appeared to 
accept the apologies offered by various members of staff and understand that it was a very 
busy period. I think given the time of year and what was happening across the travel industry 
at that time (including strike action), although it was unfortunate Mr W experienced some 
delays, Avivas explanations and apologies were reasonable.
Mr W feels strongly that he should be reimbursed for the costs of the calls he made from his 
hotel. In some circumstances, I might find that its reasonable for an insurer to refund call 
costs if there was evidence of lengthy delays or unnecessary calls. 
In this case though, the policy says: We may refuse to pay any expenses for which you 
cannot provide receipts or bills. Aviva let Mr W know the screenshots hed sent it didnt 
satisfy it that hed made the calls he said he had or the resulting costs he incurred. So it was 
open to Mr W to provide Aviva with an itemised phone bill from the hotel which showed the 
calls hed made and the costs hed incurred. He suggested to the investigator that he could 
obtain this information. But despite being asked to send in anything else he wanted me to 
consider, Mr W didnt provide a breakdown of the hotel phone bill.
So in the absence of such a bill, I cant fairly direct Aviva to reimburse these costs. After all, I 
simply have no evidence to show what numbers Mr W dialled; how many times; the call 
lengths or the charges the hotel applied. Mr W can though, if he chooses to do so, send in 
an itemised phone bill to Aviva to see if its prepared to consider reimbursing any of his 
costs.
Overall, I think Aviva dealt with Mr Ws claim promptly and fairly. And I dont think hes 
provided enough evidence of the call costs he said he shouldnt have incurred. So Im not 
telling it to pay Mr W any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman