DRN-1549334
The complaint
The estate of Ms C complains Legal & General Insurance Limited acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in declining a claim under a legal expenses insurance policy. They want 
matters put right.
What happened
The estate of Ms C had a legal expenses insurance policy with Legal & General. While trying 
to sell the property in February 2019, it discovered that the boundary line had been drawn 
incorrectly on Ms C's property, meaning that the front garden had been missed off the plan. 
The estate wanted legal assistance to rectify the deeds in order to sell the property and/or 
sue the original lawyer who acted in the purchase, and claimed under the legal expenses 
policy. 
Legal & General declined the claim. The estate of Ms C complained, and Legal & General 
explained that the policy didn't cover all possible legal claims. It said that the policy didn't 
cover claims relating to goods or services not bought during the period of insurance, or 
events that didn't occur when the policy was in force. Legal & General pointed out that the 
policy started on 29 January 2019 and the property was purchased earlier in July 2013; it 
said this meant that the contract and any alleged negligence occurred before the policy 
started. Legal & General offered to reconsider if there was a legal expenses policy in place 
in 2013, but pointed out that the rectification of deeds were also not covered by the policy.
The estate of Ms C complained to us, and said that the policy covered "This additional option 
covers you and your family up to £50,000 to pursue - any infringement of your legal rights 
from owning or occupying your home", which it said should deal with the rectification of the 
deeds. It also pointed out that the issue was only discovered when the policy was in place, 
so didn't think it was fair to refer back to July 2013. Legal & General said that the limitation 
period for negligence claims was six years, and it had passed in this case.
The investigator's view was Legal & General wasn't at fault. He said legal expenses 
insurance policies didn't cover every possible claim, and that the term dealing with 
infringements of rights to occupy or own a home referred to nuisance, trespass or actions 
damaging the property (or which might damage it). The investigator said the policy didn't 
cover the rectification of deeds, but it was possible that it covered a negligence claim against 
the lawyers who dealt with the purchase in 2013. He explained that the policy excluded 
claims arising from contracts made before the policy was in place, which was why Legal & 
General could decline the claim, even though the alleged error only came to light later.
The estate of Ms C disagreed. It said it was the date when it found out about the error that 
should matter, and that was when the policy was in place. It disagreed that rectification of 
deeds wasn't covered by the policy as it said legal rights were infringed as a result of the 
error. The estate suggested that when accepting the policy, Legal & General should've 
checked the register of the property.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When I refer to Legal & General, I'm also 
referring to its agents.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Legal & General has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy itself. This sets out the legal basis 
of what is and isn't covered. The policy only covers some legal claims, and I confirm that the 
term that says "...covers you and your family up to £50,000 to pursue - any infringement of 
your legal rights from owning or occupying your home" does not refer to the rectification of 
deeds; this deals with nuisance, trespass and other issues affecting a policyholder's ability to 
live in the property.
Having looked at the policy, the only possible claim covered is the negligence claim as that 
arises out of a contract for goods and services (in that the duty of care arose from the work 
undertaken in connection with the contract). But the policy excludes claims arising from 
contracts entered into before the policy started, and this does mean the contract to buy the 
property in 2013. Unlike the situation when considering the limitation period, the date when 
the error is discovered isn't relevant - it's the date of the contract that's critical.
I'm not bound by the wording of the policy if I think in the circumstances it would be unfair or 
unreasonable to apply it to the estate of Ms C. But having considered the situation, including 
the point that the policy does clearly set out what is and isn't covered and that the insurance 
premium is calculated on the basis of what is insured and likely to lead to a claim, I don't 
think Legal & General has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim. I note that 
it's offered to review the matter if there was a legal expenses insurance policy in place in 
2013, which is what this service would expect to see. The comparisons made by the estate 
to other types of insurance aren't relevant as each insurance policy is dealt with on the basis 
of its own terms and conditions, and there's no requirement or expectation that insurers 
investigate the title of each property insured.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms C to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman