DRN-2950932
The complaint
Mr A and Mr T complain Marsden Building Society refused to offer them an ex-pat buy-to-let 
re-mortgage after giving them an agreement in principle. Based on their understanding the 
re-mortgage would go ahead, Mr A and Mr T incurred fees which Marsden wouldnt refund. 
They then had to go to another lender which caused delay and they paid additional interest 
in the meantime. 
 
What happened
Mr A and Mr T had a buy-to-let mortgage with an existing lender. To get a better interest 
rate, they applied for an ex-pat buy-to-let re-mortgage with Marsden Building Society through 
a broker. Marsden issued an agreement in principle (AIP) and Mr A and Mr T then paid a 
booking fee to secure an interest rate product and a valuation fee. 
The valuation of the property and achievable rental income came in lower than the figures 
set out in Mr A and Mr Ts application to Marsden. Based on that, Marsden werent prepared 
to offer Mr A and Mr T the amount they wanted to borrow but they did offer to lend them a 
lower amount.
Mr A and Mr T complained. They said Marsden knew from their application that their existing 
mortgage payments were higher than the rent they were getting, they were topping up the 
mortgage from income earned abroad and theyd need to do that going forwards. 
Mr A and Mr T said since Marsden knew they didnt accept payment towards mortgages in 
the currency their salaries were paid in and their application was bound to fail, Marsden 
should have told them. Theyd paid a booking fee and valuation fee on the understanding 
theyd be offered a mortgage by Marsden. As they werent, Marsden should return the fees 
and compensate them for having to make mortgage payments at a higher rate of interest 
while they arranged a mortgage elsewhere.
Marsden rejected Mr A and Mr Ts complaint. They said the fees were non-refundable and 
theyd made that clear. The valuation suggested the mortgage Mr A and Mr T wanted wasnt 
affordable and fell outside their lending criteria. Marsden couldnt take Mr A and Mr Ts 
income into account because they werent paid in a currency Marsden accepted  and this 
was clear from information their broker had access to from the start.
Since Marsden didnt uphold Mr A and Mr Ts complaint, they brought it to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think Marsden had done anything wrong, so the complaints been passed 
to me for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Mr Ts broker applied for an AIP on Mr As behalf in December 2019. It was clear 
from the application, as Marsden acknowledge, Mr A was paid in a foreign currency. And the 
application gave the value of the property they wanted to re-mortgage as £950,000 and the 
achievable rent as £3,500 a month. 
I cant see any indication in the AIP application, though, that there was a shortfall between 
the rental income on the one hand and the mortgage and other outgoings relating to the 
property on the other. So, I dont think Marsden would have known Mr A and Mr T were 
meeting a shortfall from a foreign currency salary at that point. For reasons Ill explain, I dont 
think it would have mattered if they had known.
The application form for the AIP made several things clear to Mr A and Mr Ts broker 
including:
The application for an AIP wasnt a formal application for the re-mortgage and any 
approval of the re-mortgage was subject to Marsdens underwriting criteria. 
The AIP wasnt a mortgage offer and did not bind Marsden to make one. 
Any booking fee was non-refundable. It wouldnt be refunded if information about 
income and outgoings or the property valuation differed from previous information or 
the application fell outside Marsdens lending or affordability criteria.
The lending criteria could be found by clicking a link through to the relevant page on 
Marsdens website.
Following collection of the fee, Marsden required a fully completed application form to 
be sent within seven days and they reserved the right to decline any application 
outside that time limit.
Given Mr A and Mr T were applying through a broker, I wouldnt expect Marsden to have 
been contacting them direct to explain things. I think Marsden could reasonably expect the 
broker to have been passing on relevant information to Mr A and Mr T, since he was 
advising them, not Marsden.  
I think Marsden did enough to make it clear in the application form the booking fee was non-
refundable once it had been paid. The broker had direct access to the lending criteria on 
Marsdens website. The criteria included, amongst other things, how they assessed 
affordability and that Marsden didnt accept payment in the currency they were paid towards 
monthly mortgage payments. So that information was available to Mr A and Mr T through 
their broker when he applied for the AIP.
Mr A argued the AIP Marsden issued didnt contain a link to the terms and conditions on 
their website or mention the currency he was paid in wouldnt be taken into account by 
Marsden in assessing the re-mortgage application. Marsden did provide their website details 
on the AIP.  Its possible for the general public to access the lending criteria through the 
broker page on that website, although its not perhaps entirely obvious. But I dont think that 
matters since Mr A and Mr Ts broker already had the information from the application form 
and direct access to the lending criteria on their behalf. 
Mr A argues by issuing the AIP, Marsden had impliedly agreed the currency he was paid in 
would be acceptable to support the mortgage payments. I dont agree. I dont think Marsden 
knew about any shortfall at this stage as Ive mentioned. But even if Im wrong about that, 
just because Mr A and Mr T were using earned income to top up the outgoings on their 
buy-to-let mortgage with their existing lender, it doesnt mean theyd have had to do that with 
Marsden. Many things could affect their monthly repayments including, for example, the 
amount they were borrowing, the interest rate they were paying and the length of the term. I 
wouldnt expect Marsden to have considered their application in detail until Mr A and Mr T 
sent in their formal mortgage application. An AIP is just that  it is an indication that a lender 
may lend, subject to a full application being made, not a guarantee that they will lend.Mr A and Mr T question why Marsden went ahead and took the fees when it was clear from 
the application form there was a shortfall on their existing mortgage payments and the rent 
they were getting. They say, and I accept, there was a difference between their UK 
expenditure and income shown on the form. They argue that Marsden knew based on the 
application form theyd need to take their foreign earnings into account given the shortfall.
From what Ive seen, it looks as if Mr A and Mrs T paid the booking fee and valuation fees 
before their formal re-mortgage application was sent to Marsden towards the end of January 
2020. If thats what happened, Marsden wouldnt have had that information at the time Mr A 
and Mr T paid the fees. 
Even if things didnt happen in that order, I dont agree it was clear from the application Mr A 
and Mr T would need to use earned income to make payments towards a mortgage Marsden 
might offer, just because theyd had to with their existing lender - for the reasons Ive 
explained already.   
As Id expect, Marsden arranged a valuation before deciding whether to make a formal 
mortgage offer. Mr A and Mr T paid for the valuation as part of their application which is 
normal practice. And I think it was reasonable for Marsden to rely on the advice of the valuer 
in making its lending decision. 
The valuations came in at £900,000 for the property and £3,000 for rent, against the 
information Mr A and Mr T had given in their application of £950,000 and £3,500 
respectively. Marsden were willing to offer £523,500 based on the valuations they got. They 
say they would have offered the £585,000 Mr A and Mr T applied for if the valuations had 
come in at the figures in their application. I think this is consistent with the information 
Marsden have provided about the affordability calculations it carried out.  
Marsden have explained the income of applicants isnt their main measure for assessing the 
affordability of a mortgage. Their assessment is based primarily on the property valuation 
and interest coverage ratio. This is the minimum rental cover Marsden require for the loan 
to be considered affordable. Its only when theres a shortfall on rental income that they will 
take a limited amount of earned income into account in assessing affordability. But they will 
only consider currencies that are on their list of acceptable currencies. And the currency 
Mr A and Mr T are paid in isnt on that list. This information was set out in the lending criteria 
which Mr A and Mr Ts broker could access.
Ultimately Marsden made a commercial decision based on the valuation it got and its 
published lending criteria about the amount they would lend to Mr A and Mr T. I think the 
booking fee and valuation fee were fairly charged to Mr A and Mr T as part of Marsdens 
consideration of their application.  
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think Marsden treated Mr A and Mr T unfairly. And, whilst 
I understand it will be disappointing for Mr A and Mr T, I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr A and Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman