The complaint
Mr M complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited hasnt offered him enough money 
for a replacement phone after he made a claim on his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M had mobile phone insurance through his building society account.  
In June 2018 Mr M contacted Assurant to say that his phone was damaged. He sent it to 
its repair centre. A few days after the phone was received, it told Mr M his phone was 
unrepairable, and that there weren't any duplicate handsets available to give him as a 
replacement. As it couldn't replace the handset for the same make and model, it offered him 
two alternative phones or £100 as a cash settlement.
Mr M didnt want to accept the alternative phones. He didnt think they were equivalent to his 
original handset. He also thought he should be offered more than £100 as a cash settlement. 
So he complained to our service.
When he complained to us, Mr M said that he wouldnt be able to buy an equivalent mobile 
phone for the £100 settlement. He was also unhappy that Assurant had pointed him towards 
online mobile phone suppliers.
Mr M thinks he should be offered enough money to buy a replacement phone form a 
reputable high street name. Ideally he would like to be compensated £230  the amount 
he bought his handset for in the first place.
Assurant says Mr M has already accepted the £100 cash settlement.
Our investigator didnt think Assurant did anything wrong. He said that the relevant term of
Mr Ms insurance policy said:
"If your mobile phone is damaged or breaks down we will either:
(1) repair the mobile phone (where possible), or
(2) replace it with a mobile phone of the same make, model and memory size
If we cannot do this you will be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification.
If we are unable to replace your phone with the same make and model, we will contact you 
to discuss an alternative claim settlement."
Our investigator appreciated that Mr M wanted to buy a replacement handset from a well 
know high street retailer. However, Mr Ms phone wasn't available on any well-known high 
street retailers websites. It was available online for between £49 and £100. A couple of 
DRN-1361951those retailers were well-known retailers that had dispute resolution mechanisms in place if 
something went wrong with the purchase. They also had seller reviews and ratings that
Mr M could consider before making a purchase.
Our investigator also said that Mr Ms handset was launched in June 2014. So while he 
appreciated that Mr M had paid £230 for it, it had depreciated in value since then.
In the circumstances, our investigator thought the £100 Assurant had offered was fair. So he 
didnt think they needed to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
Mr M remained unhappy, so he asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said 
that when he took the £100 he made it clear that he didnt think that was a fair amount, and 
that he would still come to us to try to get more money. 
Mr M told us that he doesnt buy goods online from suppliers he hasnt heard of, because 
online reviews may be fake, and because he has concerns about how they may use his 
payment card information. He would be happy for Assurant to buy a replacement handset 
from one of the online sellers and send it to him. This would assure him that it stood behind 
the quality of the phone supplied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
I appreciate that Mr M wanted to get a replacement handset (of the same make and model) 
from a well-known high street retailer. But the handset in question isnt available from those 
retailers, so Assurant offered Mr M an £100 cash settlement or two alternative handsets.
Mr M declined the alternative handsets, and wants more than £100. I understand Mr M's 
position about this. He says he originally bought his handset for his £230. I appreciate this. 
However, Mr M bought the handset some time ago. It's only available from a limited number 
of retailers now, for between £49 and £100. In the circumstances, I understand why it offered 
him an £100 cash settlement.
Mr M has said hed accept a replacement handset (of the same make and model as his 
phone) if Assurant were to buy one from one of the online sellers and send it to him. I 
understand why he has suggested this. However, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to require it to do this. I'm also conscious that Assurant has already paid 
Mr M a £100 cash settlement.
Taking the matter as whole, I dont think that Assurant needs to do more to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2020.Laura Forster
Ombudsman