DRN-4014934
The complaint
Mr K and Miss S complain that Target Servicing Limited delayed an administration process 
causing interest on the outstanding balance of their mortgage to be charged at the standard 
variable rate (SVR), rather than a new interest rate for longer than necessary.
What happened
Mr K and Miss S had a shared equity mortgage administered by Target. Their fixed interest 
rate product expired in December 2021. They wanted to remortgage to obtain another fixed 
rate with a new lender. To do so, they required a deed of postponement to be sealed by the 
shared equity provider  Homes England. Target were required to administer that process.
The process of getting the deed of postponement sealed by Homes England was delayed  
it took significantly longer than Target says the process should take. Mr K and Miss S say 
Target were responsible for them being delayed in obtaining a new mortgage rate deal and 
they paid approximately £2,000 more in interest than they otherwise would have done. They 
say that was because Target failed to identify mistakes in the deed of postponement before 
it submitted the document to Homes England for sealing. So, Mr K and Miss S complained to 
Target.
In its final response dated 29 April 2022, Target acknowledged it had caused some delay but 
said that was limited to not updating Mr K and Miss S within its expected six-week period. 
And it acknowledged it should have noted that the lenders address was incorrect when 
amendments to the document were first requested. It apologised for that service. Later in the 
complaint process offered Mr K and Miss S £100 to resolve the complaint.
Dissatisfied with Targets response, Mr K and Miss S asked us to consider their complaint. 
Our investigator thought Target should do more to put things right and she thought Target 
was responsible for more of the delay than it had acknowledged. She said shed seen that 
Mr K and Miss Ss solicitor caused some delays. But she was satisfied by the evidence 
available that, had Target identified the errors before sending the deed of postponement to 
Homes England, it would have been sealed by the end of March 2022. So, she thought 
Target should pay the additional interest Mr K and Miss S were charged while they were on 
the SVR in April 2022. She calculated that additional interest amounted to £551.85. In 
addition, our investigator thought Target should pay £200 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience its delays caused to Mr K and Miss S.
Mr K and Miss S accepted our investigators opinion, but Target didnt respond to it. So,     
Mr K and Miss Ss complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Target acknowledged that it had caused some delay to the sealing of the deed of 
postponement. And Target hasnt objected to anything our investigator has said in her 
opinion about what she thought was fair redress and why. So, to decide Mr K and Miss Ss 
complaint, Ive thought about whether our investigators assessment of the delays 
attributable to Target was reasonable and what Mr K and Miss Ss losses were as a result of 
those delays.
Mr K and Miss Ss previous interest rate expired at the end of December 2021. Target 
informed Mr K and Miss S and their solicitors of the requirements for the deed of 
postponement on 23 December 2021 and received most of those requirements by              
11 January 2022. Target sent the deed of postponement to Homes England for sealing on 
13 January 2022 and informed Mr K and Miss S it is usually sealed and returned within four 
to six weeks. But, having been chased a number of times by Mr K and Miss Ss solicitor, 
Target informed them on 28 February 2022 that there was missing information on the deed, 
and it would need to be completed and re-sent to Homes England. Internal correspondence 
from Target suggests the deed of postponement was aborted. Mr K and Miss Ss solicitor 
asked Target why the deed of postponement was aborted on 2 March 2022 and was told the 
document needed to be completed again on a new template. Mr K and Miss Ss solicitors 
arranged for that to happen, and Target sent the new deed to Homes England on                 
3 March 2023.
On 16 March 2022, Homes England asked Target to make another amendment  the 
lenders address was incorrect. Target confirmed to Mr K and Miss Ss solicitor that the 
document was sent again to Homes England on 21 March 2022. The sealed deed of 
postponement was sent to Mr K and Miss Ss solicitors by Target on 1 April 2022.
From what Ive seen, I think Target acted reasonably promptly when it was required to take 
action. However, the delays occurred due to the deed of postponement being sent to  
Homes England on an old template and with information either incomplete or incorrect. I 
think Target should have checked that the document was as Homes England expected to 
receive it before it was sent for sealing. Target has acknowledged that it would ordinarily 
check the deed of postponement was correct before sending it and I can see from evidence 
it has provided that it knew of Homes Englands requirements. So, I think it was responsible 
for the delays caused by it sending the deed of postponement for sealing when it wasnt 
correct.
I agree with our investigator that its not possible to say with any degree of certainty when  
Mr K and Miss S would have been able to get their new mortgage rate product in place had 
no errors occurred. Thats in part at least because Mr K and Miss Ss solicitor also made 
some errors. But, like our investigator, I think Target was responsible for more delays than it 
acknowledged in its final response letter. And, had the delays Target caused not occurred, I 
think its reasonable to assume Mr K and Miss S would have had their new mortgage rate 
product in place by the end of March 2022. So, I think they should be compensated for the 
additional interest they were charged in April 2022 because they were on their old rate  the 
standard variable rate  longer than necessary.
I think Mr K and Miss S would have suffered distress due to the time they were having to pay 
additional interest on their mortgage stretching on longer than they had been led to believe 
and not knowing when that matter would be resolved. So, I also think Target should 
compensate them for that. Mr K and Miss S accepted our investigators recommendation of 
£200 in that regard and I think that amount is reasonable in the circumstances Ive seen.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr K and Miss Ss complaint, Target should:
Pay them the difference in interest they were charged on the standard variable rate in 
April 2022 and their new rate - £551.85.Add 8% simple interest* from the date they made the payment for the interest 
charged in April 2022 to the date on which Target makes the settlement payment.
Pay them £200 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Target Servicing Limited considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell 
Mr K and Miss S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K and Miss S a certificate 
showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr K and Miss Ss complaint about Target Servicing Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman