DRN-2253133
The complaint
Mr H brings this complaint on behalf of his business, which Ill call K, a limited company. 
Mr H complains that he was unable to access his business bank account with Clydesdale 
Bank trading as Yorkshire Bank or a period of 6 days.  
What happened
Mr H was unable to access his business bank account, and so he called Yorkshire Bank to 
try and resolve this. Mr H was trying to access his account via an online banking app, but the 
One Time Passcode (OTP), required to log in, was either not being generated, or was not 
being sent to his registered mobile phone. 
Yorkshire Bank logged a technical issue with Mr Hs account and placed him in a queue for a 
call back to resolve the issue. 
Mr H called Yorkshire Bank several times over the 6 days that he was unable to access the 
account. Yorkshire Bank offered to send Mr H a hard token to access his account, which is 
a device used to generate a pin to enable Mr H to log in without the OTP. They offered to 
complete transfers for Mr H, and directed him to the CHAPS form on their website, that Mr H 
could use to request a same day transfer of funds. 
Mr H refused the hard token because of the time it would take to get to him, and completion 
of transfers, but he did submit a CHAPS form. 
Mr H says that Yorkshire Bank were very unhelpful over the phone, and they didnt call him 
when they said they would to confirm they had fixed his access, instead he found this out 
himself when trying to log in to the app 6 days later. Mr H has explained how frustrated he 
was that he had to keep calling back to try and resolve the issue, because he hadnt 
received the promised call back and so didnt know what was being done to try and restore 
access to the account. Mr H is also unhappy that the CHAPS request he submitted was not 
processed. 
Mr H says that he had to ask a client not to pay him, as he didnt know when he would be 
able to access the funds. He also says that he had to lose a days wages in travelling to 
open a new business banking account. 
Mr H would like £350 for the loss of a days wages, £26.10 for the travel into town and £200 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Yorkshire Bank upheld Mr Hs complaint. They apologised for the difficulty in accessing the 
account, for no phone call being made to update Mr H on his account access, that his 
CHAPs form was not processed, and for taking so long to answer his complaint. 
Mr H brought his complaint to this service as, although theyd accepted his complaint, 
Yorkshire Bank made no comment on his request for compensation and didnt acknowledge 
the costs hed told them hed incurred due to the problems. They made no offer of redress to 
Mr H to resolve his complaint.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H, and decided that he wouldnt ask Yorkshire 
Bank to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
Mr H has asked for an ombudsman review. He doesnt feel its fair to decide in favour of 
Yorkshire Bank when they have admitted themselves to making mistakes. Mr H explains that 
he has suffered financial loss and inconvenience as a result of these mistakes and should be 
compensated for them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether Yorkshire Bank have provided poor service in the provision of Ks business bank 
account is not in dispute here. Both parties accept that Mr H was unable to access his 
account for 6 days, that he received poor service when calling Yorkshire Bank, and that his 
CHAPS request was not processed. So, Ive thought about how Yorkshire Bank should 
compensate Mr H considering what hes told us about the impact on K. 
Because K is a separate legal entity to Mr H, I can only make an award for inconvenience 
experienced by the company, and not by Mr H personally. As K is a business, it doesnt have 
emotions, and its not capable of feeling distress or upset. So, I can compensate K for 
inconvenience if, for example, one if its Directors has spent so much time dealing with an 
issue that it has taken away from the duties that Director would normally perform for the 
business. But I cant compensate it for the personal frustration Mr H experienced in dealing 
with Yorkshire Bank.
I know that Mr H feels that the only option available to him was to take time out of work to 
open a new business banking account. But I think the options given to Mr H were reasonable 
things to offer in the circumstances. They would have allowed Mr H to continue to use the 
account in some way, whilst the technical team worked on restoring access. So, while I 
understand why Mr H wanted to open an account with a different bank, I dont think 
Yorkshire Bank are responsible for the costs incurred by Mr H in doing so. 
Yorkshire Bank have accepted that Mr Hs CHAPS form was not processed when it should 
have been. I can see that the account access was restored on the same day that the 
CHAPS form should have been processed, and Mr H was able to withdraw most of the funds 
hed requested on that day. So, I dont think K lost out as a result of this error and I dont 
think Yorkshire Bank need to take any further action to put this right. 
I recognise what Mr H says about the frustration and inconvenience he experienced in 
dealing with Yorkshire Bank, but I dont think the inconvenience caused to K by the time Mr 
H spent resolving matters was enough to justify an award of compensation. 
In summary, I think Yorkshire Bank has done what I would expect in order to put matters 
right by working to fix the account access issue, offering alternative methods of access to 
funds during this time and apologising to Mr H. And because of this I wont be asking it to do 
any more in relation to Ks complaint.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman