DRN-2956198
The complaint
Mr H complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has unfairly refused to pay a
claim he made for items stolen from his car. He made the claim under his home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr H left two bikes in his car overnight, ready to use the following morning. The car was
parked at the side of his house. He covered the bikes with a tarpaulin over the normal pull 
across cover so they wouldnt be visible to anybody passing.
The next day he discovered the bikes and other items had been stolen. He reported this to 
the police and contacted Fairmead about making a claim. Fairmead said it wouldnt meet the 
claim because Mr Hs belongings werent in a locked boot  and it thought using a tarpaulin 
to cover the gaps in the normal cover would draw attention to the fact that there were items 
beneath it. 
Our investigator thought Fairmead should meet the claim as Mr H had done what he could to 
conceal his property. 
I didnt agree, and issued my provisional thoughts in June. In summary I thought that 
Fairmead had fairly relied on the clause in the insurance policy that said items had to be 
completely concealed in a glove compartment, locked luggage compartment or locked 
boot. I thought that covering the items with a tarpaulin would draw attention to the fact that 
there were items beneath the pull across shelf  and make it more likely that a thief would 
think there might be something worth stealing.
I said if the items had been concealed beneath the standard shelf (without the seats being 
moved) I might think Mr H had done all he needed to meet the terms of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded to my provisional decision. Fairmead agreed with my 
conclusions, and went on to say that as the cover was effectively two roller blinds that 
pulled across the from the rear door to the seats  and would never effectively hide items 
beneath it. Im not entirely persuaded by that argument, as that would mean Mr H could 
never claim for items stolen, and I dont think thats always going to be fair. But I dont think 
this makes a difference to this decision, because Mr H also added the tarpaulin, which I think 
made a crucial difference and could alert a thief to the fact that items were in the car.
Mr H thinks Ive misunderstood how the boot of his car works. Im sorry if the words I used 
led him to believe that, but I do understand how the seats work in these cars. And I 
appreciate Mr Hs point about it possibly being too dark for a thief to see the tarpaulin  but it 
remains that something attracted the thiefs attention.
I also understand why Mr H thought it a good idea to load his car the night before. 
Unfortunately, that course of action left his belongings vulnerable in a way that could have 
been avoided.
Neither party have provided any new evidence that leads me to change my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that Im unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman