DRN-3828733
The complaint
Mrs O complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
under her motor insurance policy. She says it failed to obtain CCTV footage which might 
have shown she wasnt at fault for an accident.
References to AA include its agents. 
What happened
In May 2022, Mrs O made a claim on her motor insurance policy with AA after she was 
involved in an accident, resulting in damage to both her vehicle and the other drivers. 
Mrs O says the other driver caused the accident by cutting into her lane from the right hand 
side. However, the other driver disputed this.
The third party offered to settle on a 50/50 split liability. However, Mrs O didnt want to 
accept this as she believed the other driver was fully responsible for the accident.
AA recommended that Mrs O agree to the third partys offer. It said there didnt appear to be 
any independent evidence from either party to show who was at fault. It said the offer hadnt 
been presented directly to AA, but it would look to accept it if it was, as this was the likely 
settlement a judge would make if the claim was to proceed to court.
Mrs O complained to AA about its handling of her claim. She was unhappy that it hadnt 
requested CCTV footage, which she believed may have shown that she wasnt responsible 
for the accident. 
AA said it wasnt satisfied there was any CCTV footage to obtain as this was not mentioned 
during Mrs Os first call, and it wasnt discussed until a couple of months after the accident. 
AA said it couldnt obtain footage if it was unaware of its location or the property holder. 
Mrs O remained unhappy, so she asked our service to consider her concerns. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. He 
thought AA had acted fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs O disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said she hadnt known if there was 
CCTV when she made the claim and the police had told her it was her insurers 
responsibility to request the footage, not hers. She didnt think AA had acted appropriately 
because it hadnt even attempted to request CCTV footage. So, her complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Os complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see Mrs O raised some other issues in her complaint to AA. However, shes only 
referred to her concerns about AA not requesting CCTV footage in the complaint shes 
brought to our service. So, this is all Ive considered in my decision.
The policys terms and conditions allow AA to take over and conduct the negotiation 
defence or settlement of any claim in Mrs Os name. Similar provisions are found in most 
motor insurance policies, so I dont find this unusual. It means AA is entitled to decide 
whether to defend a claim or settle it.
In its most recent communication with our service, AA told us liability for the accident was yet 
to be determined. So, I dont know what the outcome of the claim is or will be. 
Mrs O raised her complaint after AA told her it was likely to accept liability for the accident on 
the basis of a 50/50 split liability. Shes unhappy that AA hadnt requested CCTV footage 
that she believes might have shown she wasnt at fault. She was concerned about the 
impact on her premiums as well as her excess not being covered. She also says the 
situation has caused her anxiety.
Mrs O says she contacted the police about CCTV footage shortly after the accident and she 
was told it was the responsibility of her insurer. Shes provided an email from the local 
council which says there are council CCTV cameras within the vicinity of the roundabout 
where the accident occurred, but footage is only retained for 30 days. 
I appreciate Mrs O feels strongly that AA should have contacted the local council at the 
beginning of her claim to see if CCTV footage was available. However, we wouldnt expect 
an insurer to physically inspect the location of every accident to see if CCTV cameras cover 
the area, or to contact a local council as a matter of course.
We would expect an insurer to request CCTV footage in a timely manner, if it learns of 
CCTV at the location of an accident. So, Ive considered whether AA was likely to have been 
aware there was CCTV within 30 days of the accident. 
Ive listened to Mrs Os telephone conversation with AA when she first notified it of the 
accident. There was no mention of CCTV footage in the call. 
Mrs O completed a statement form a couple of days after the accident. This includes the 
question: Is there any CCTV footage available? If yes, please provide this to us or contact 
information for us to obtain this. Mrs O answered this with unknown.
The first mention of CCTV footage in the information Ive seen, is in an email Mrs O sent AA 
in August 2022. In this, she refers to being told previously that the CCTV wasnt requested 
because its usually hard to access because of data protection and that it was too late 
because it had been over 30 days since the accident. I havent seen anything to show me 
when AA might have said this to Mrs O. However, it appears to have been after the 
timeframe in which any footage would likely have been available.
On balance, I dont think AA is likely to have been aware of the existence of CCTV at the 
location of the accident during the period in which any footage would likely have been 
retained. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for AA not to have requested CCTV footage.
I know my answer will be disappointing to Mrs O, but I havent found reason to uphold her 
complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman