DRN-3062805
The complaint
Mr H complains about what Acromas Insurance Company Limited wont cover as part of his 
legal expenses claim following a property dispute with his neighbour.
Any reference to Acromas includes it agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr H and his neighbour have been in dispute over several years. Mr H has sought 
assistance from Acromas and the firm of solicitors it appointed who Ill call S since 2015. 
The disputes have largely centred on some land between Mr Hs house and his neighbours 
house and include: Mr Hs right of way being blocked or interfered with; damage to tarmac; 
trespass; harassment; requests for payment regarding utilities tanks; and suggestions Mr H 
doesnt own what he thinks he does. 
Each time Mr H has raised an issue Acromas has applied a two-stage test. The first to see if 
the claim is covered under the policy and the second to see if there are reasonable 
prospects. Reasonable prospects are defined as:
Where we consider there is a 51% and above chance of succeeding with your claim and 
enforcing any award and that it would be reasonable to advise any private paying client in 
the same circumstances to pursue the claim. 
Immediately prior to Mr H coming to this service Acromas had agreed to cover him for his 
claim for the interference with his right of way. Mr H wanted to pursue his claim for trespass 
as well. But this claim had been assessed by S as not having reasonable prospects. And S 
thought that pursuing these claims together  even if Mr H paid for the trespass part of the 
claim  would prejudice the chances of Acromas recovering its costs. Acromas therefore told 
Mr H that it wouldnt cover him unless he only wanted to pursue his right of way claim.
But that wasnt what Mr H said he wanted to happen, he said what he wanted from Acromas 
is that it funds legal representation for a declaration of boundary for his ownership of his 
portion of the courtyard in dispute. His neighbour has he said put him on notice, through his 
solicitor, that he disputes his ownership of a portion of the courtyard. He wants Acromas to 
fund S to represent him to confirm the boundary so that he can fence his portion of the 
courtyard to protect himself from his neighbours trespass, nuisance and damage and violent 
behaviour when asked to leave. 
Acromas and S have explained that Acromas wont cover a declaration of boundary and 
have suggested a surveyor is employed at Mr Hs own expense to provide an opinion. Mr H 
and another solicitor who is also advising him believe this contradicts the policy terms. Mr H 
has also referred to information provided to him at the point of sale which suggests he would 
be covered for boundary disputes.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought he wouldnt be able 
to ask Acromas to cover a declaration regarding the boundary as this isnt covered under the 
policy terms. 
He also thought Acromas was entitled to withdraw cover, because pursuit of the trespass 
claim alongside the right of way claim might prejudice the latters chance of success. 
He thought Acromas had referred Mr Hs disputes to S in a timely manner and as soon as it 
had confirmed a positive prospect of success had confirmed cover. It had only withdrawn 
cover when it found Mr H was wishing to pursue the trespassing element as this would 
potentially undermine Acromass position. 
The investigator said that if Mr H feels that the assessments of the prospect of success are 
incorrect then he would need to fund a new prospects assessment from a suitably qualified 
firm of solicitors. Alternatively, if Mr H was willing to stop pursuing the trespassing element 
then cover would resume as previously agreed.
Mr H has asked for an ombudsmans opinion. He believes that the ownership of the land 
needs to be clarified. His neighbour, through his neighbours solicitor, has put him on notice 
that the land is in dispute and it is therefore very difficult to sell his house. He thinks Acromas 
should support him in trying to establish the boundary as shown by the deeds. He believes 
that the concept of legal cover is to protect your legal property rights and to defend in court if 
necessary. He cannot find in the policy document any exclusion clause concerning 
boundaries. He says he has been attacked and harassed whilst maintaining his own 
property on his own land and then been told by his neighbour that his land doesnt belong to 
him. He has been attacked inside his own house and damage has been done to his tarmac 
and he has suffered the nuisance of his log store being moved to his back door. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration. He wants to move to a new house and the long-running 
dispute with his neighbour is preventing him from doing so. He has explained that he has 
suffered years of abuse from his neighbour some of it physical.
But I dont think Acromas, has done anything wrong here. 
It has offered cover for those matters which are covered under the policy and S has advised 
have reasonable prospects. It wont cover anything which is not covered or doesnt have 
reasonable prospects. This is reasonable and is what the policy says.
Im going to first explain why I dont think Mr H is covered for a boundary declaration  as 
this seems to be the biggest issue for Mr H - and then I will consider how Acromas has 
handled his claim.
Mr H thinks Acromas should support him in trying to establish the boundary as shown by the 
deeds. He has taken advice from a different firm of solicitors. This advice said:
Legal claim is defined in the policy as (amongst other things) defending your legal rights in a 
civil court
An application for a Declaration falls squarely within this definition, and as there has been 
trespass, nuisance or damage, we do not accept your contention that there is no cover for 
an application for a Declaration.
What the policy says is Mr H is covered for is:Legal costs for pursuing a legal claim and/or arrangement of mediation for a dispute relating 
to your property which you own or is your responsibility following an event which causes or 
could cause physical damage to your property: or following a public or private nuisance or 
trespass, including if there are squatters in your property.
It doesnt cover a declaration of a legal right. Thats not unusual  legal expenses policies 
generally cover proceedings for interference with an existing legal right, rather than 
establishing whether a right exists. So, he isnt covered for establishing his boundary by 
itself. I say this even though I sympathise strongly with Mr H and can see why he feels this is 
the best way to resolve the problems he has with his neighbour.
Turning to Acromas general handling of the claim, Mr H has referred several of his 
neighbours actions to his insurer. Once Acromas had satisfied itself that the policy was valid 
and whether any exclusions or conditions applied it referred the claim to S for a legal 
assessment. The legal assessment includes checking whether there are reasonable 
prospects of success. S has looked at all the events Mr H has brought to Acromas and said 
that except for the claim about the right of way he doesnt have a claim under the policy, or 
he doesnt have reasonable prospects. 
Different fee earners have worked on Mr Hs case, they have been paralegals, trainee 
solicitors and solicitors. Most recently the work carried out has been undertaken by a 
solicitor and it was a solicitor who made the assessment that there were reasonable 
prospects of success for his claim for the interference with his right of way. 
At this service we take the view that where an insurer relies on the opinion of a suitably 
qualified lawyer in assessing reasonable prospects then in the absence of strong evidence 
to suggest this opinion might be wrong  such as the opinion of another suitably qualified 
lawyer we would say it was reasonable for the insurer to rely on the advice of its expert. In 
this case S has produced several letters and reports. Taken as a whole my impression of 
them is that they are detailed and considered. The work has been undertaken by a range of 
people with a range of legal experience. I note that latterly the work has been undertaken by 
a solicitor and that Acromas has confirmed that work that wasnt undertaken by a solicitor 
was supervised by a senior lawyer.
Mr H has also obtained the advice of a different solicitor. Whilst this solicitor hasnt agreed 
with S it hasnt  in anything I have seen which has been provided to Acromas  specifically 
considered the reasonable prospects of success of pursuing any of the claims where S has 
said there wasnt reasonable prospects of success. The different solicitor has instead made 
the case that the best way forward would be for there to be a boundary declaration. But as I 
have said this isnt covered by the policy. So, overall, I think that it is reasonable of Acromas 
to rely on Ss advice in these circumstances. 
Turning to the question of withdrawal of assistance I think it is helpful to set out what the 
policy says about this. On page 45 it says:
5. Withdrawal of assistance by us
We may at any time withdraw our support for your claim:
a. If we or your appointed representative decide that there are no longer reasonable
prospects for success or enforcement of any judgement or potential judgement are
insufficient to justify our continuing support

d. if you act in a way which may prejudice the settlement of your claim; or
e. if you fail to co-operate with us or the appointed representative or fail to follow their 
advice.Acromas has received advice from S that pursing the claim for trespass may prejudice 
the chance of recovery of costs on the action which does have reasonable prospects of 
success. Given the policy permits withdrawal of assistance if the policy holder acts in a way 
which may prejudice the settlement of the claim and if the policy holder fails to co-operate or 
follow the advice of the appointed representative then I think  in the light of Ss legal advice 
Acromas wasnt unreasonable to withdraw assistance. 
Mr S has referred to the description provided by his home insurance provider of what the LEI 
cover includes. I have looked at what he has said and think that the description is fairly 
general and would thus indicate that it would be reasonable for a consumer to make further 
enquiries at the point of purchase for example by looking at the policy wording itself or the 
policy summary. In addition, Im not satisfied that Acromas, as the legal expenses insurer, 
would be responsible for the general information provided by the home insurer. 
I leave it to Mr H to decide if he wishes to agree to dropping his claim for trespass and 
pursuing only the claim for interference with his right of way. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman