DRN-3313328
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B complains about the service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
In March 2021 Mrs B passed away and Mr B (her husband) contacted Barclays to notify it. 
Barclays took the step of freezing the account. 
A few days later, Mr B2 (Mrs Bs son and executor of her estate) contacted Barclays but 
found the account had already been frozen. Barclays were unwilling to discuss the account 
with Mr B2. Barclays sent Mr B a closure form which was completed and returned. 
Mr B2 has explained he then took action to ensure funds that were meant to be paid into the 
account were sent elsewhere. But Mr B2 later found pension payments had been credited 
the late Mrs Bs account and has told us he had to refund them from his own funds. Mr B2 
raised a complaint on behalf of the estate of Mrs B.
On 1 April 2021 Barclays wrote to Mr B and confirmed it had transferred the late Mrs Bs 
funds as requested.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint and said it had acted in line with the instructions 
provided. But Barclays ultimately offered Mr B2 £50 as it failed to contact him as promised. 
Mr B2 referred the complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Barclays had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. 
Mr B2 asked to appeal and said Barclays had lied when it advised the late Mrs Bs account 
was frozen to credits as well as withdrawals. Mr B2 has explained he was concerned about 
private pension payments being received and thought Barclays had taken steps to ensure 
none would be credited to the account. 
Mr B2 also explained that as the executor of his late mothers estate he shouldve been in 
control of the account. Mr B2 has also told us that whilst funds were paid into Mr Bs account 
at the beginning of April 2021 there were further delays before they could be accessed. 
As Mr B2 asked to appeal on behalf of the estate of Mrs B, this complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by saying how sorry I am at the circumstances under which Mr B2 refers this 
complaint. I can understand how frustrating its been and why Mr B2 was concerned that 
things didnt go smoothly. But I need to explain that there are limits to the way we can 
resolve a complaint and our awards are consumer focused. In this case, the consumer is the 
estate of Mrs B. I understand that Mr B2 has been working on behalf of his late mothers 
estate. But the rules we operate under only allow us to award compensation to the 
consumer, not their representatives. 
So whilst I dont doubt the situation has been stressful and time consuming for Mr B2, my 
focus is on how the consumer was impacted and thats the estate of Mrs B in this case.
Mr B2 has told us that he doesnt agree Barclays acted reasonably when it froze the account 
on Mr Bs advice that Mrs B had passed away. I understand Mr B2 was the executor of Mrs 
Bs estate, but Barclays has explained it will act to enforce account restrictions once its 
notified a customer has passed away. I can see that Barclays sent Mr B a closure form to 
complete after he got in touch and Mr B2 has confirmed it was completed with his input. 
I note Mr B2s concerns about the potential for someone to abuse the process. But we have 
to consider the specific circumstances of a complaint and I havent seen anything that 
indicates Barclays made a mistake when it acted to restrict the account following Mr Bs call. 
Mr B2 has told us Barclays advised the account would be blocked for all incoming and 
outgoing transactions. Mr B says he then took steps to reroute payments that were due to be 
paid in. Mr B also says he relied on this information as he thought any pension 
overpayments would be returned to the provider without being credited. In actual fact, 
pension payments were credited to the account and Mr B2 has explained he had to use his 
own funds to repay the overpayments until they could be released from Mr Bs account. 
As Ive said above, I can only award compensation to the estate of Mrs B, I cant make a 
settlement in favour of Mr B2. I havent seen anything that shows the estate of Mrs B lost out 
as a result of the way Barclays explained the account restrictions it put in place. I understand 
Mr B2 mayve used his own resources to resolve the situation with the late Mrs Bs pension 
provider, but Im not persuaded that came about as a result of the way Barclays settled the 
late Mrs Bs account. 
The closure form was returned to Barclays and processed without undue delay. The funds 
were then sent to Mr Bs account in line with Barclays instructions. Mr B2 has told us about 
further delays when his father tried to use his account to access the estate of Mrs Bs funds, 
but thats not something I can look at in this complaint. I can only deal with the estate of Mrs 
Bs complaint in this decision. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B2 but as I havent found evidence of a loss to the estate of 
Mrs B Im not telling Barclays to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B2 on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman