DRN-3300595
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as H, complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled 
and settled its claim for subsidence on its commercial property insurance policy. 
The directors of H have brought the complaint on its behalf. For ease of reading Ill refer to 
Mr H throughout. 
What happened
H is the owner of a pub. It has a commercial insurance policy underwritten by Ageas to 
insure the building. In June 2018 Mr H made a claim on the policy after noticing uneven 
flooring and cracks in the walls. Ageas appointed a loss adjuster who made an initial visit in 
September and concluded further investigation would be required. Following further 
investigation it concluded that part of the floor had been damaged due to subsidence and 
needed to be replaced. So it accepted the claim.
Over the months and years that followed Mr H raised additional concerns about water 
ingress in the building, damage to another part of the ground floor and damage to the patio 
area. Ageas investigated these issues and initially agreed to replace the whole ground floor. 
However it later retracted this as it said the other part of the floor didnt need replacing. It 
also said the damage to the patio wasnt related to subsidence and the water ingress wasnt 
linked to an insured peril either. So the policy wouldnt provide cover for these.
It offered Mr H a cash settlement of around £45,000 for the rebuild of the part of the floor that 
was covered under the policy. 
Mr H didnt think this was a fair settlement offer, as he said the whole ground floor needed 
replacing in order to ensure there would be no further movement. He also said he was 
unhappy with how the claim had been handled as it had progressed very slowly. And this 
had meant he wasnt able to re-open his business after covid-19 restrictions were lifted in 
2020. So he thought Ageas should also cover the money H had lost due to this. He made a 
complaint. 
Ageas upheld the complaint as it agreed the claim could have progressed more quickly. It 
offered to refund the £1,000 policy excess as compensation to apologise for the poor 
service. However it maintained that the claim settlement it had offered was fair, as it 
represented its liability under the policy. It said it would consider a claim for business 
interruption for the time the repairs would take to do, but Mr H would need to provide 
accounts from 2020 and 2021 in order for it to calculate this. 
Mr H was unhappy with this response as he didnt think it was fair that Ageas were only 
agreeing to pay for part of the replacement floor when a whole new floor was required.  He 
brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt think Ageas had acted unfairly when 
reaching the settlement amount. She said it had based its determination on expert reports, 
which was fair in the circumstances. However she thought it should pay H business 
interruption costs for the two months required for the repairs, based on accounts provided for 
the 12 months prior to the claim, as this was inline with the policy terms.
Ageas agreed to our investigators recommendation. However Mr H didnt agree. He said 
that Ageas had confirmed it would pay for the whole ground floor to be replaced, so it wasnt 
fair that it had gone back on that. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has expressed a number of issues with how Ageas has handled the claim. I consider 
the key ones to be  the limit of policy liability, the claim settlement amount, business 
interruption cover and compensation for poor service. Ive therefore considered each of 
these in turn below. 
Policy liability
Mr H has identified a number of issues at the building, and doesnt think its fair that Ageas 
are only providing a settlement for part of the ground floor. 
My role when making this decision isnt to determine what the cause of the damage to Hs 
building was. But rather to determine if Ageas decision to decline the claim was fair and 
reasonable, based on the evidence. 
Ageas has provided numerous reports from its contractors. From these I can see that its 
experts have concluded that the floor around the carpeted bar area had dropped 
considerably due to subsidence. And that it required replacement. However the damage to 
the rest of the floor was minimal, with no recent movement noted. 
Hs insurance policy provides cover to rectify damage caused by an insured peril  
something listed as covered under the policy. But this doesnt extend to ensuring damage 
doesnt happen in the future. So while I understand it would be preferable for the whole 
ground floor to be replaced, in order to ensure it doesnt move in the future, this isnt what 
the policy provides for. And Ageas experts conclude that there is no significant damage to 
the other part of the ground floor. For this reason, I think its reasonable that Ageas has only 
offered a settlement for the replacement of the floor that has suffered subsidence damage. 
I understand Mr Hs frustration that Ageas offered cover for the whole floor, and later 
withdrew this. However, as I think Ageas decision to just cover part of the floor is fair, I 
therefore cant say it should pay for the whole floor just because this was its original offer. 
Further, Ageas reports conclude that the water ingress and damage to the patio werent 
caused by insured perils. So I think it acted fairly by not accepting these as part of its liability. 
So while I understand Mr H doesnt agree with the findings of Ageas reports, he hasnt 
provided any further expert opinion to show that they are inaccurate. For these reasons, I 
think Ageas has acted fairly by relying on its experts reports to decline the claim. And I wont 
require Ageas to do anything further in this regard.
Settlement amount
Mr H has said hes unhappy with the amount Ageas has offered as a cash settlement for the replacement floor. Ageas has provided a breakdown of the costs it has based the settlement 
on. And while these costs are at its preferred rates with its own contractors, its added 
around an additional £10,000 to this quote to make up for any possible price differences 
between its contractors and those Mr H is able to obtain. So I think this is fair in the 
circumstances.
Should Mr H be unable to have the insured work completed for this amount, then he should 
provide evidence of this for Ageas to re-consider its settlement. 
Business interruption
Mr H has said that H has lost business due to having to close for a prolonged period 
because of the damage. 
Hs policy provides business interruption cover on the following basis:
In respect of each item in the Schedule We will indemnify You in respect of loss resulting 
from interruption of or interference with the Business carried on by You at the Premises in 
consequence of Damage occurring during the Period of Insurance caused by the operation 
of a Contingency covered under the Property Damage Section of the Policy unless otherwise 
stated in the Schedule.
So cover is only provided for interruption due to damage that is covered by the policy. Mr H 
has said that the damp in the bar area is the reason why he hasnt been able to re-open the 
pub. And Ive not seen any reason why the floor alone would prevent the pub from opening. 
So I dont agree Ageas would reasonably be liable for this closure.
However, when the work to the floor is carried out, its reasonable that the disruption will be 
such that the pub will be unable to operate as usual. So I agree Ageas should pay for 
business interruption during this period. Ageas has said that this should take two months. 
And its agreed to our investigators recommendation that it pays this, on receipt of Hs 
accounts from the 12 months prior to the loss. As this is in line with the policy terms, I agree 
with this recommendation and will require Ageas to make payment in line with the policy. 
Compensation
Mr H is also unhappy with how the claim has progressed, as its taken three years before his 
complaint and the damage still hasnt been repaired. 
From looking at the correspondence provided, I agree there have been times when the claim 
could have been progressed more quickly. And this has caused Mr H  on behalf of H  
some inconvenience in having to continue to correspond with Ageas and chase it up. 
However Ageas has offered to refund the £1,000 policy excess as compensation to 
apologise for this inconvenience and this is in line with what I would have required it to pay in 
the circumstances, had it not offered anything. I therefore think this is fair and reasonable 
and wont ask it to pay any further compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Hs complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Hs claim for business interruption for the two months it will take for the insured work 
to be completed, on receipt of Hs accounts for the 12 months preceding the loss. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T and Mrs H and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman