DRN-3829263
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Metro Bank PLC hasnt refunded her after she fell victim to a scam, 
where a fraudster impersonated her daughter on a messaging app.
What happened
Mrs C received a message on WhatsApp from an unsaved number. The message said, Hi 
mum, my phone is broken. This is the new number you can save. Are you home?.
Mrs C immediately believed this message to be from her daughter. It was in fact a scammer. 
Mrs C has explained that she knew her daughter had been having problems with her phone 
and so the message was given legitimacy. Without prompting, the scammer went on to say 
that theyd dropped their phone, breaking it, hence the new one and new number.
The scammer went on to ask Mrs C to make a payment for her. They explained that their 
banking app was inaccessible because of the new phone and that it would take 48 hours for 
security checks to be completed. 
Mrs C wanted to help but said she didnt have money in her account. Shes explained how 
she felt overcome with panic and the need to help her daughter. She was worried that her 
daughter would get into trouble if she didnt make the payments that were due.
Mrs C suggested asking other family members for help, whom she mentioned by name. The 
scammer picked up on these names and asked Mrs C to request money for her. They said 
they were still completing installation and updates on the new phone and so were struggling 
to make calls.
Mrs C went on to contact two family members who agreed to send money to Mrs C, before 
she sent it on for her daughter, on the understanding it would be repaid within two days. 
Mrs C was able to get £800 together, although the scammer had asked for £1,250 to be 
sent. They said theyd contact the recipient to explain a partial payment was going to be 
made and that the balance would be paid in the next couple of days.
The scammer provided Mrs C with the account details the payment was to be sent to. The 
details included the names of an individual that Mrs C didnt know. She didnt ask what the 
payment was for or who the person was, only saying to who she thought was her daughter, 
This better not be dodgy. 
Once the money was sent, the scammer continued to message Mrs C in an informal, 
conversational way.
Mrs C genuinely spoke with her daughter later that day and the scam was revealed. She 
contacted Metro right away to report the scam.
Metro looked into what happened and considered whether it ought to reimburse Mrs C. It 
considered whether Mrs C was due a refund under the Lending Standard Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. The CRM Code, broadly speaking, states 
that a victim of a scam, like Mrs C, should be refunded unless it can be shown they failed to 
meet their requisite level of care, as set out in the Code.
Metro said that Mrs C had failed to meet that level of care because shed ignored what the 
bank considered to be an effective warning, which it presented to her at the time she was 
making the payment. It also said shed not had a reasonable basis for believing she was 
speaking with her daughter, having not carried out any checks to make sure it was her. It 
declined to reimburse Mrs Cs loss on those grounds.
Metro contacted the bank the money was sent to, but no funds were recoverable. 
Mrs C was unhappy with Metros answer and so brought the complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked at what had happened and found Metro had unfairly declined Mrs C 
a refund. 
Our investigator considered the warning Metro said was most likely presented to Mrs C. He 
didnt believe it met the definition of an Effective Warning as set out in the CRM Code. The 
warning appeared as follows:
If youre sending money to someone youve never met or dont know, they might not be who 
they say they are.
Things to remember:
If you met them online, theres an even higher risk of them not being who they claim 
to be.
Even if its a friend or family member, check its really them  one way to do this is to 
contact them in a different way than you usually do.
Dont make this payment unless you know your money is going to the right place.
Call us if you have any questions.
That meant Metro couldnt rely on it as an exception to reimbursement. He noted that Metro 
couldnt evidence what warning it gave to Mrs C, but said that none of the warnings that 
were more likely than not to have been shown met the requirements of the CRM Code. He 
found the warnings werent impactful or specific enough to bring to life the scam Mrs C fell 
victim to. He said the warnings also failed to set out the full consequences of proceeding.
The investigator also considered whether Mrs C held a reasonable basis of belief when she 
made the payment. His arguments can be summarised as:
Mrs C was aware that her daughter was having problems with her phone and this 
matched what was said by the scammer;
The scammer presented a plausible reason  tied to the replacement phone  as to 
why they couldnt make the payment themselves;
The scammer explained the money was for a payment to someone else, and so the 
unknown payee name was explained;
The tone of the messages was informal and conversational, with the scammer 
picking up on cues from Mrs C which made the chat seem more genuine;
The scammer played on the emotional attachment between Mrs C and her daughter, 
exploiting the inherent trust between them. He said he could understand why Mrs C 
felt her daughter was in trouble and needed help getting out of it, so she was 
compelled to help.
Our investigator recommended a full refund based on the above. He awarded no 
compensatory interest as he could see the money had come from family members and 
would be paid back to them once refunded.
Metro responded to the investigators view and didnt accept the outcome. The response 
contained no comment on the reasonable basis of belief element of the complaint; only the 
warnings were addressed. It said:
the warning that was likely presented to Mrs C said, Even if its a friend or family member, check its really them  one way to do this is to contact them in a different 
way than you usually do.
the heading of the warning cautions to stay safe from fraud. It said most people 
should understand the word fraud and the consequences. 
Mrs C had said on a phone call that shed probably not read the warnings 
presented to her, so it was unfair to place much weight on the contents of any 
warning.
Our investigators view wasnt changed by what the bank had said. He went on to have a 
further conversation with Mrs C about her personal circumstances. Mrs C explained several 
health conditions, along with major life events, which our investigator felt meant she 
exhibited some significant vulnerabilities, in the context of the scam she fell victim to.
I wont go into excessive detail here as to do so would be unnecessary. But some key points 
are:
Mrs Cs husband had left the marital home without notice three months earlier which 
had caused a great deal of upset and anxiety;
Mrs C has a chronic condition which is a source of stress and anxiety for her. She 
also takes medication which can exacerbate her anxiety and bring on confusion.
Mrs C has explained how the combination of life events and different medications often 
leave her in an anxious state and unable to make the right decisions. Shes explained she 
often experiences confusion and forgetfulness. At the time of the scam, when she thought 
her daughter needed money quickly, shes explained how she was solely consumed with 
helping her and could focus on nothing else.
With this additional information in mind our investigator wrote to the bank to explain he felt a 
further section of the CRM Code was applicable in Mrs Cs case. This section specifically 
talks about the protection of vulnerable customers. The relevant part of the Code says:
R2 (3)A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. This should be 
assessed on a case-by-case basis. In these circumstances, the Customer should be 
reimbursed notwithstanding the provisions in R2(1), and whether or not the Firm had 
previously identified the Customer as vulnerable. Factors to consider include:
(a) All Customers can be vulnerable to APP scams and vulnerability is dynamic. The 
reasons for dynamics of vulnerability may include: the personal circumstances of the 
Customer; the timing and nature of the APP scam itself; the capacity the Customer 
had to protect themselves; and the impact of the APP scam on that Customer.
On this basis our investigator said Metro ought to refund Mrs C, regardless of its thoughts on 
the warnings presented and Mrs Cs reasonable basis of belief. Metro responded but only to 
say it hadnt been aware of Mrs Cs vulnerabilities before the scam, and the details hadnt 
been revealed through its investigation. The investigator pointed out that Metro neednt have 
been aware of the vulnerabilities in advance in order for a refund to be due under the Code, 
but he received no further response. And so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Metro says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case. 
It says Mrs C ignored what it considers to be an effective warning. It also contends that she 
didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was speaking with her daughter. Metro says 
Mrs C ought to have done more to make sure it was her daughter she was talking to.
Its for me to determine whether those exceptions to reimbursement can be fairly applied in 
the circumstances of this case. 
Did Mrs C ignore an effective warning?
The first thing to note here is that Metro cant evidence what warning Mrs C would have 
been shown. The Code requires banks like Metro to keep robust evidence about any claim 
decisions made under the Code. As it is unable to evidence what warning Mrs C might have 
been presented with, Im not persuaded it can fairly rely on the effective warning exception to 
reimbursement.
Its also true that the warnings Metro believes Mrs C most likely saw do not meet the 
standards set out in the Code. I, like the investigator, find the warning doesnt bring to life the 
scam Mrs C was falling victim to.
Banks like Metro ought to be very much aware of how scams like this tend to unfold. Contact 
will often come unprompted from a new number, with a hi mum/dad introduction. Scammers 
often try to impersonate a parents child in this way, and WhatsApp is a common means of 
doing so. But none of that detail is brought to life.
I dont find that the suggested steps to prevent such a scam go far enough either. These 
arent really linked to the detail of how the scam works. And it would seem to be more 
impactful to spell out specifics, such as actually calling someone if a new phone number has 
been supplied. Its not for me to tell Metro how its warnings should appear. But it is clear to 
me that the warnings it has provided arent specific or impactful enough to meet the 
requirements of the Code.
I know Metro has also said that the heading of the warning  stay safe from fraud  ought to 
have been enough to inform a customer about the consequences of proceeding with a 
payment. I disagree. The Code requires Metro to clearly express what the consequences 
would be; that the money would likely be lost and irrecoverable. Metro contests that 
customers would understand that inherently, but again I disagree. Many people believe that 
they are protected by their bank, should they fall victim to fraud or a scam. Or that their bank 
will be able to claw back funds sent as a result of a scam. Metro ought to be aware that 
neither of those points are necessarily true, and often arent the case at all.
Metro has also argued that given Mrs C said she probably didnt read the warning at the time 
its more likely than not shed have not taken heed of any warning, no matter the wording. 
Whilst I can see the point Metro is making here, I dont believe the argument carries weight. 
Had the warning been more specific and impactful, by properly addressing the scam and 
how to prevent it, theres a good chance it would have altered Mrs Cs actions.
Even if a warning with different content and wording wouldnt have made a difference, it 
doesnt automatically follow that Mrs C failed to meet her requisite level of care under the 
Code. Metro would still have to consider whether Mrs C ignored an effective warning and, if 
so, whether it was reasonable for her to do so in all the circumstances of the case. A 
consideration of her reasonable basis of belief would also still be necessary. If neither 
exception were to apply, then it doesnt matter whether Metro could have prevented the 
scam (through a warning) or not and Mrs C would still be due a refund under the Code.    
Did Mrs C have a reasonable basis for believing the purpose of the payment and person she 
was talking to were legitimate?Its important to remember when dealing with scams like this, and in fact any scams, that 
customers are generally not in a state of alert when it comes to detecting and preventing 
fraud. People dont expect to be scammed in their day to day life. And I think its easy for the 
banking industry to become almost hyper-sensitive to scams, where the expectation is that 
all details of any interaction ought to be questioned by a customer. Particularly when 
reviewing a case of fraud in hindsight. 
But that isnt a realistic view of how individuals go about their lives and the expectation is set 
too high. 
Unless there is something within an interaction that clearly seems out of place or unusual, 
people will often not detect that something might be wrong. Scams like this succeed 
because fraudsters are adept at exploiting human nature and behaviours.
Mrs Cs case is a prime example of such exploitation. She was contacted on a new number 
by who she believed was her daughter. It was purely by chance that Mrs C knew her 
daughters phone had been playing up, meaning legitimacy was immediately lent to the 
messages received.
What followed, whilst not detailed, appeared to be a normal conversation about needing to 
borrow some money fairly urgently. This kind of scam is designed to prey on a parents 
natural inclination to help and defend their child. And so, its fair to say, the rationale or 
circumstances may not be questioned as much as they otherwise might be. The fraudster is 
playing on an emotional response, that the parent is unlikely to be particularly aware of at 
the time. 
Where there isnt anything within the messages that appears off or unusual, I find its fair to 
say that Mrs C held a reasonable basis of belief that she was dealing with, and helping out, 
her daughter. 
I can see from the chain of messages that the fraudster quickly and cleverly picks up on 
cues from Mrs C, notably around the names of family members and seeking help from them 
too. 
The messages show the scammer added legitimacy to the request for payment by giving a 
reasonable explanation as to why the payments couldnt be made by Mrs Cs daughter. It 
was explained that the banking apps werent yet accessible on the new phone. I consider 
thats not an unreasonable explanation for Mrs C to have accepted.
I cant see that Metro has considered these points in its investigation. Indeed, it failed to 
comment on any of the detail after our investigator issued his opinion. And so its given no 
further defence on the reasonable basis of belief argument. 
Mrs C has explained how she panicked at the time and was just thinking about helping her 
daughter. And its clear from what happened, in terms of sourcing the funds, that Mrs C was 
somewhat frantically trying to help. She quickly suggested other family members that might 
have been able to assist, and even contacted them herself in order to gather at least some 
of the money that had been requested. 
Metros position prior to the investigators view looks to have largely been based on an 
assumption that Mrs C ought to have been immediately wary about contact from a new 
phone number, and ought to have been questioning the detail immediately. But I dont 
consider that to be a fair and reasonable position to take, in light of the circumstances of the 
case and the nature of the scam.
Was Mrs C vulnerable to this type of APP scam at the time?
Unfortunately, I dont know what Metros view of Mrs Cs vulnerabilities are. Its chosen not to 
comment on them despite our investigator setting them  and the impact of them  out in 
correspondence with the bank. All Metro has said is that it was unaware of Mrs Cs vulnerabilities and that she hadnt informed it of anything before the scam took place or 
whilst it was investigating (including several conversations on the phone). 
I find this to be a disappointing response from Metro, for a few reasons. For one, Metro 
ought to know that upfront knowledge of any vulnerability is not an exception to 
reimbursement under R2(3) of the Code. Once details of vulnerabilities have been 
presented, they should be considered and assessed. Metro hasnt done that here, even after 
the involvement of  and prompting from  this Service.  
Its also clear that Metro didnt seek to question Mrs C on her personal circumstances, or to 
investigate any potential vulnerabilities, at the time she reported the scam. I wouldnt expect 
a customer to divulge their personal and medical history to their bank unprompted. Often an 
individual will wish to remain private and wont understand the significance of providing such 
detail. Its for Metro to sensitively enquire about a customers personal circumstances in 
order to draw out important details that might impact their claim. 
Given what Mrs C has said about her anxiety and the state of panic she found herself when 
she received the request from her daughter, and the lack of input from Metro, I do think it 
would be fair to say reimbursement under R2(3) applies. And so even if there had been a 
finding that Mrs C ignored an effective warning, or that she didnt have a reasonable basis of 
belief, a refund would still be due.
Putting things right
Metro should now refund the £800 lost to the scam. Like our investigator, I make no award of 
interest on the amount as the principle sum was provided by family members on the 
understanding it would be repaid.
I make an award of £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience on the following 
grounds, which Ive covered in my findings above:
Metro Banks failure to properly engage with this service in respect of responding to 
the investigators findings;
Metro Bank not adhering to the principles of the Code. This is evident both at the 
time the scam claim was being investigated by Metro, and when the complaint came 
to this service;
Any complaint will naturally take time to resolve. Its not the case that compensation 
ought to be paid just because a business didnt resolve the complaint itself, and that 
it was brought to our service. But the two above points have meant the resolution of 
this case has been unnecessarily protracted. This would likely cause anyone 
unnecessary upset, but Mrs C suffers from anxiety, and has other health conditions, 
which have meant having the scam hanging over her for so long has been 
particularly distressing.      
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman