DRN-1683495
The complaint
Ms H complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (Marks & Spencer) have not 
provided an adequate response to the claim she made to them under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators opinion. I know that will come as a 
disappointment to Ms H so please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Ms H made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Its clear that the change of departure port would have inconvenienced Ms H. Shes 
explained that she was looking forward to departing from Liverpool and I can see that her 
cruise didnt commence until the Tuesday evening. I accept she therefore lost some 
scheduled cruise time. However, I think sufficient compensation has been provided for this 
disruption and the impact it would have had on Ms Hs enjoyment of the holiday. I can see 
that shes been offered a free trip of Edinburgh; a £10 spending credit; a 20% discount off a 
future cruise and £424 which Marks and Spencer say represents 50% of the two days lost. I 
think thats reasonable in the circumstances.
I was sorry to hear that Ms Hs itinerary was so badly affected by the stormy weather 
conditions and I understand that this was a special occasion she and her daughter must 
have been looking forward to. But I dont think I can reasonably say the change of itinerary 
was a breach of contract as the terms state the business is not responsible for changes that 
occur due to 8.5 iii) unusual or unforeseen circumstances i.e. a force majeure and I think 
these unusual weather conditions were an example of that.
Ms H has asked me to consider whether the tour operators terms are fair in the 
circumstances. I think they are, its clear that cruise operators are at the mercy of the 
weather and there will be occasions out of their control when changes to itineraries will need 
to be made.
So, in those circumstances I think the business offer is reasonable and Im not asking them 
to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman