DRN-3632724
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with payments into an 
Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
Mr W says he tried to pay cheques into an account in early 2021 following the passing 
away of his wife. He says a cheque was returned and was told required forms hadnt been 
completed. Mr W says a further letter was sent to him by Nationwide telling him the 
cheque was enclosed but it was not. In summary he was caused distress and 
inconvenience at what was already a difficult time and made a number of calls as well as 
visits to Nationwide.
Nationwide accepts mistakes were made and initially offered £75 compensation. It says 
an ISA allowance was exceeded and accepts it gave misleading information about the 
whereabouts of the cheque.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator 
recommended compensation of £350 in total and accepted the complaint was not 
resolved for some months. And thought Nationwide ought to have explained the position 
to Mr W.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and says he lost ISA status on the money and has 
suffered a loss of interest. He would like compensation in excess of a £1,000 for what 
took place.
Nationwide has agreed to pay the recommended compensation and has offered to 
backdate any payments to it into an ISA.
Mr W doesnt wish to invest his money in Nationwide in the light of what took place but 
accepts he cant say what expenses he incurred or what the difference in any interest loss is.
My Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said as follows.
I came to the provisional view that Nationwide should pay £500 compensation for the 
reasons I would explain. I made clear to Mr W that I summarised what took place, as 
the background to the complaint and what took place is well known to the parties. And I 
could see that investigator set out two views which contain all of that information and 
detailed in them the various attempted and actual transfers.
I said there is no doubt here that Nationwide ought to have dealt with Mr W more 
appropriately and explained the process of transferring the ISA accounts. I thought 
Nationwide ought to have appreciated that Mr W was transferring ISAs following the 
passing away of his wife and that he was not the expert on tax allowances and required 
forms.
I was satisfied that the position remained unresolved for some months and that Mr W 
would have been caused additional distress and inconvenience in being told after some 
months the cheque had been destroyed. I could see that Mr W was caused additional 
distress and inconvenience in those circumstances and obtained a new cheque himself.
I had no doubt Mr W was caused considerable distress and inconvenience. I was 
satisfied that a number of telephone calls were made to Nationwide and that visits were 
made to a branch. I also made clear the position remained unresolved for some time and 
there remained unanswered questions about what took place and the exact details of 
parts of this complaint.
  I said the only real issue for me to consider is the level of compensation. I could see that 
the investigator explained how we deal with such matters and that our awards are not 
intended to punish a business. I accepted in this case it was impossible to calculate the 
expenses Mr W incurred and I also accepted it was impossible to calculate any interest 
rate loss as I had not been provided with sufficient information about that. I appreciated 
why in the circumstances that Mr W would not wish to accept Nationwides offer to 
backdate interest and allow a further payment to it.
Overall, my provisional view was that Nationwide should pay £500 compensation. I found 
that award fair and reasonable and in line with the type of awards we would make for this 
type of complaint and impact. I also thought that award reflected the expenses Mr W 
would have incurred in calling Nationwide and attending its branch. I found that award 
also reflects the length of time this complaint carried on for. I appreciated Mr W may 
remain unhappy with my view and appreciated that he considers what took place justifies 
far higher compensation. But I said I hope he appreciates now, how we approach such 
matters and the reasons why I reached my view.
Nationwide has agreed with my provisional view but Mr W has not replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Nationwide should pay £500 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mr W £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman