DRN-4238887
The complaint
Miss P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In May 2022, Miss P was looking to buy a car and saw one she was interested in listed for 
sale on an online auction website. She contacted the seller and after exchanging a number 
of messages with them, visiting their website, and doing some online checks on the car, she 
agreed to buy it. She then made two payments to the bank account details the seller gave 
her, for a deposit and then the remaining balance, as set out below:
Date Details Amount
22 May 2022 1st bank account details £1,000
27 May 2022 2nd bank account details £4,500
It was agreed the seller would deliver the car to Miss P two days after she made the second 
payment. But, when the car didnt arrive and the seller stopped responding to her, Miss P 
became suspicious. She contacted someone else who worked for the company she thought 
was selling the car, but they told her they werent selling the car and she had been the victim 
of a scam. Miss P then reported the payments to Monzo and asked it to refund the money 
she had lost.
Monzo investigated but said it had made the payments in line with Miss Ps instructions and 
didnt think she had taken enough steps to check who she was paying and what for. So it 
didnt agree to refund the payments. Miss P wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so 
referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think Miss P had a reasonable 
basis for belief when making the payments. But they thought Monzo should have provided 
an effective warning when she made the second payment, and hadnt done so. So they 
thought Monzo should refund 50% of the second payment. Monzo disagreed with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code) but has said it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. This code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of authorised push payment 
scams, like the one Miss P fell victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it 
is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Was Miss P vulnerable, under the CRM code?
The CRM code says that, where a customer is vulnerable, the bank should refund them in 
full  regardless of whether any of the exceptions to reimbursement apply. And it defines a 
customer as vulnerable if it would not be reasonable to expect them to have protected 
themselves from the particular scam they fell victim to.
Miss P has mentioned several medical conditions that were affecting her around the time of 
the scam. And I dont underestimate the impact these had and appreciate that this will have 
been a very difficult time for her. But as she had been looking for this make and model of car 
for some time, considered several finance options, carried out some checks and spoke to 
her family about the sale, I dont think she was unable to protect herself from this particular 
scam.
So I dont think Miss P meets the definition of vulnerable from the CRM Code, and so the 
exclusions to reimbursement could still apply.
Did Miss P have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
Monzo has argued that Miss P didnt take enough steps to check who she was paying and 
what for, and so didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments. And I 
appreciate that this was a sophisticated scam and that Miss P had done a number of checks 
to try to satisfy herself that the sale of the car was genuine. But I also think there were a 
number of things about what was happening and what she was told that should have caused 
her significant concern.
From the independent valuations our service has carried out on the car Miss P thought she 
was buying, it appears that the seller was listing it for sale at significantly below market 
value. The car appears to have been listed at less than half the usual market value for a car 
of the same age, make and model. And as Miss P has said she had been looking for this 
particular model of car for some time, I think its reasonable to expect her to have noticed 
this and to have been concerned that the price the car was being listed at was too good to 
be true.
Miss P was also asked to make the payments to personal accounts, rather than a business 
account for the limited company she thought was selling the car. The personal accounts she 
was asked to make the payments to were in the names of two different people, neither of 
which matched the name of the person shed been speaking to or the directors of the 
company shed looked up. And she doesnt appear to have been given any explanation of who the people she was paying were or how they were connected to the sale. So I think this 
should also have caused her significant concern.
While Miss P did do some checks into the sale, I think the issues Ive mentioned above 
should have caused her significant concern. And I dont think the seemingly genuine 
information she saw from the checks she did should have been enough to overcome those 
concerns.
So I think Monzo has established that Miss P made the payments without a reasonable 
basis for belief that they were genuine. And so it has established that one of the exceptions 
to reimbursement under the CRM code applies here, and it does not have to refund Miss P 
all of the money she lost.
Did Monzo meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Miss P had a reasonable basis for belief when making the 
payments, she may still be entitled to a refund of some of the money she lost if Monzo didnt 
meet its obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings 
when it identifies a scam risk.
The first payment Miss P made wasnt for what Id consider to be a particularly large amount. 
There had been other payments out of her account for similar amounts previously, and it 
didnt leave the balance of her account at a particularly unusual level. So I dont think Monzo 
ought to have identified a scam risk as a result of this first payment.
But the second payment Miss P made was for a significantly larger amount, and was 
significantly larger than the payments usually made from her account. And while there were 
some similar or larger payments made from her account in the previous months, I dont think 
they were frequent enough to make this kind of payment seem like normal activity for the 
account. And they were mostly made to other banks, rather than to personal accounts as 
this second payment was. So I think Monzo ought to have identified a scam risk as a result 
of the second payment, and shown Miss P an effective warning before allowing it to go 
through.
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
Monzo has sent us a copy of the warning Miss P was shown before she made the second 
payment, which said:
Could someone be trying to scam you?
Stop if:
You were told your account is at risk, to make an unexpected payment, or to take out 
a loan
The offer sounds too good to be true
You havent double-checked who youre paying
You were told to ignore warnings like thisYou may lose money if this is a scam.
If youre at all unsure, stop and get advice.
While the warning does mention offers that are too good to be true and double-checking who 
you are paying, the rest of the things mentioned in it arent really relevant to Miss Ps 
circumstances. The warning doesnt give much detail about what this kind of scam could 
look or feel like. And I dont think it does enough to highlight the seriousness of the risks or 
what steps someone could take to try to avoid falling victim to a scam.
So I dont think this warning was specific or impactful enough to be effective in Miss Ps 
circumstances. And so I dont think Monzo has met its obligations under the CRM code.
Overall then, I think Monzo has established that Miss P made the payments without a 
reasonable basis for belief that they were genuine. But I also think Monzo has failed to meet 
its obligations in relation to the second payment. So I think Miss P is entitled to a refund of 
50% of the second payment under the CRM code.
As I think Miss P is entitled to this refund under the CRM code, I think Monzo should have 
agreed to it when it first assessed her claim. And so I think Monzo should also pay Miss P 
8% simple interest on the refund, from the date it initially declined her claim until the date of 
settlement.
Did Monzo do enough to try to recover the money Miss P lost?
We expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money their customers have 
lost, once they are made aware of a scam.
But the bank the money was sent to has told us the money was removed from the accounts 
it was sent to before Monzo was made aware of the scam. So I dont think anything we 
would reasonably have expected Monzo to do could have recovered the money Miss P lost, 
and so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Monzo Bank Ltd 
to:
Refund Miss P 50% of the second payment  totalling £2,250
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date it initially rejected Miss Ps claim 
until the date of settlementUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman