DRN-2870565
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr D has a travel insurance policy with his bank current account. 
In December 2019, he booked a trip to Europe for him and his wife. He booked a hotel stay 
for three nights for the both them too. The intended hotel booking dates were from 20 April 
2020 to 23 April 2020. 
Due to government travel advice against all but essential travel, Mr D contacted the hotel to 
inform them they will no longer be coming and asked for a refund or postponement of the 
booking. The travel provider cancelled the reservation. 
The cost of the hotel reservation for three nights was £399.63 for both Mr D and his wife. He 
submitted a claim to UKI for the hotel cost he incurred. UKI said it would refund Mr D half of 
the cost less the excess on the policy of £50. UKI say Mr D has cover under the policy but 
his wife doesnt. Therefore, it will only refund his portion of the costs. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think it should be upheld. She said Mr D had cover on the policy, but 
his wife didnt have cover. A family or guest upgrade was not applied to the policy so it 
wouldnt be fair for UKI to pay the full cost incurred. It has agreed to pay half the cost which 
is attributed to Mr D and our investigator thought that was fair. 
Mr D disagreed and the complaint has been referred to me. Mr D says he wants the 
ombudsman to consider only one point as follows:
The price of the room was the same price whether he was alone or with someone. 
The room was therefore 100% his cost to pay. The insurer should have refunded 
Mr D 100% of the cost less the excess for one person.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry guidelines require UKI to deal with claims fairly and promptly. And, not 
to decline a claim unreasonably. 
The key issue I need to therefore decide is whether UKI has dealt with the claim in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and in doing so, dealt with it fairly.
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential international travel. At the same time, the intended destination Mr D was travelling 
to also applied extraordinary measures. Therefore, I can understand why Mr D contacted 
the hotel to cancel the booking. 
The crux of the complaint is that Mr D believes he should receive a full refund of the hotel 
cost incurred not only his half of the cost. 
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions. Under the Cancelling your trip section on 
page 19, the insured person is covered for FCO travel advice against all but essential travel. 
The insured person in this case is Mr D. 
The section goes on to explain what is not covered:
You are not covered for
We wont pay for:
..
10. The unused costs of any person who is not insured by this policy. If you are 
travelling with someone who is not insured under this policy, we will only pay your 
costs even if you have paid their costs as a gift.
Theres nothing to suggest from either party that Mr D upgraded his policy to include his wife 
for the trip he booked. As such, as only Mr D was the policyholder, Im not persuaded that 
UKI should pay the full costs Mr D incurred for the cancelled hotel booking. 
Mr D has said he has incurred the cost of the room regardless of whether anyone else 
stayed in the room with him or not, so he says hes had to bear 100% of that cost.  I 
understand this and its not in dispute that this room was booked for double occupancy. But 
generally, hotels will charge extra depending on the number of people staying in the room. 
While I appreciate theres no exact way of knowing the cost of each person, the fairest way 
to apportion the cost by an insurer is by sharing this equally. 
Ive also considered Mr Ds comment that he shouldnt have the excess deducted and this 
amount should then also be deducted proportionately. I appreciate this. However, the 
cancellation section of the policy document confirms that the excess for each insured person 
is £50 for each trip that is cancelled. If Mr Ds wife was insured on the policy, the excess 
deducted would have been £100 - £50 for each insured person. Im satisfied therefore UKI 
hasnt incorrectly applied the excess. 
With the above in mind and in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think UKI has 
treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably. 
Ill leave it to Mr D to decide whether he wishes to accept the payment on the basis that hes 
the only policyholder. He should contact UKI directly if the payment hasnt been made. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman