DRN-2983027
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited refused a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
Miss Ps car broke down. She noted the fuel cap was missing and believed that the car had 
suffered a vandalism attack where the vandal contaminated the fuel in her car, which caused 
the breakdown. She asked Admiral to repair the car under the terms of her policy. After 
appointing an independent engineer to examine the car Admiral turned down Miss Ps claim. 
It said the engine problem was a result of wear and tear and not something her policy 
covered.
Miss P brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think 
Admiral had done anything wrong. Miss P didn't agree so her complaint's been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
When putting her complaint to Admiral Miss P raised a number of issues. I've considered 
everything on file carefully but in this decision I don't intend to address every point Miss P 
raised with Admiral. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issue at the heart of 
Miss Ps complaint. 
Miss Ps policy will cover her car for damage caused by vandalism but it wont cover her for 
a mechanical breakdown caused by wear and tear. Miss P said a mechanic told her that 
hed found a crystal like substance in her fuel. And that was why she believed her car had 
suffered vandalism damage, in which the fuel had been contaminated. 
Admiral asked an independent engineer to inspect the car. The engineer noted that while the 
fuel filler cap was missing there was no sign of any damage to that area of the car. He took a 
fuel sample which he sent to a specialist company to examine. The specialist company didn't 
find any evidence that the fuel was contaminated. As a result the independent engineer 
didn't think Miss Ps cars engine trouble was caused by contaminated fuel but by something 
else. Admiral said that her car's breakdown wasn't caused by contaminated fuel so wasnt 
something that her policy covered. 
Miss P provided a report from an engine rebuilding company which said that Miss Ps car 
had suffered engine damage because of fuelling issues. It said it had found foreign matter 
that looked like a sugary powder in the fuel tank. Admiral forwarded this report to the 
independent engineer but he didn't change his opinion on the cause of Miss Ps cars engine 
damage. And Admiral maintained its decision to turn down Miss Ps claim. So I need to think 
about whether or not Admiral did that fairly.
We have two engineering reports which are in direct conflict. So I need to decide which one I 
think is more persuasive. I've noted that the company that the independent engineer sent the 
fuel sample to is a specialist in testing and analysing fuels. It provided a report of its findings 
and set out its method for testing the fuel sample. It didn't find any contaminants in the 
sample it tested.
In contrast the engine rebuilding company said the fuel was contaminated. However, I find 
the specialist companys findings more persuasive. That's because the sample was collected 
by an independent engineer, and the company is dedicated to carrying out the sort of testing 
and analysis that was required. So, if the fuel had been contaminated then I would have 
expected the specialist company to identify that, as testing fuel is the core of its business. 
But it didn't find evidence of any contaminants in the fuel it tested. And I note that it hasn't 
raised any issue about the quantity, quality or method of extracting the sample. In those 
circumstances I'm satisfied that the fuel wasn't contaminated at the time that the 
independent engineer took the sample.
Its not clear why the engine rebuilding company found that the fuel was contaminated, when 
the specialist company didn't. But I note that the engine rebuilding company isnt a specialist 
in analysing fuels. And as I'm satisfied with the specialist companys findings that the fuel 
wasn't contaminated at the time that Miss Ps car broke down, I think it was reasonable for 
Admiral to decline her claim for the damage to her engine. 
For completeness I noted that Miss P said that the specialist company was only asked to 
determine what sort of fuel was in her car. But Ive seen the specialist companys report. And 
it's clear that it tested the fuel for a range of contaminants but didn't find any. I also note that 
Miss Ps said that she thinks the independent engineer didn't take the sample from the 
bottom of her fuel tank where the crystal like substance was found. But as I've said above, 
the specialist company didn't raise any concerns about the method the independent 
engineer had used to take the sample. So Im satisfied with its findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman