DRN-2302094
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I took out a monthly-premium MPPI policy with their mortgage in 2002. The 
policy only covered Mr I. The initial premiums for this insurance were about £30 a month. 
And, following a successful claim, it would initially have paid out about £500 a month for up 
to 12 months had Mr I not been able to work because of accident, sickness or involuntary 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Is complaint should be upheld. As
they disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance on
our website. Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs I, but Ive decided not to
uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs I say that BoS hadnt discussed MPPI with them. But they received a letter, 
(the letter), about it in the same envelope as their mortgage offer. They say they were 
made to believe taking the insurance was part of BoS finally accepting them for the 
mortgage. 
Ive seen a copy of the letter. This says: Now that your mortgage arrangements may 
have been processed, we are pleased to offer you the protection of [MPPI]. I find that 
this wording shows that BoS decision to offer a mortgage was not connected in any way 
with Mr and Mrs Is decision whether to take up the MPPI, or not. This is because the 
wording anticipates that the offer may already have been processed when the letter was 
received. As was in fact the case in Mr and Mrs Is circumstances. This conclusion is 
reinforced because the letter goes on to strongly recommend that BoS customers 
consider the insurance. (The emphases are mine.) I think this shows that they had 
freedom whether to buy the MPPI or not. Further, the letter says that Mr and Mrs I should 
apply for the policy once they have decided how much cover they want. I find this 
indicates that there was no minimum cover required. 
Ive also seen Mr and Mrs Is mortgage offer. There is nothing in that requiring them to 
take out MPPI with BoS or, indeed, at all.
Overall, Im satisfied that the above details make it clear that taking the policy was 
optional. And Mr and Mrs I have not given us any other details of what BoS said to them 
in connection with MPPI that may have led them to believe they had to take it out to get 
their mortgage. So I think that Mr and Mrs I knew that the policy was optional. 
BoS has not been able to supply a copy of Mr Is application for the policy, presumably 
because the sale was so long ago. But Ive seen evidence that it was added to their 
account. And they have never suggested to us that they didnt take it. So I have no 
reason to conclude that they didnt consent to it;
Mr and Mrs I say that they were pressurised by BoS to take the MPPI. I see that in 
the letter Bos strongly recommended that its customers consider taking it. I dont 
conclude that this amounts to undue pressure. I dont think that this is anything 
other than an expression that BoS felt that taking the policy was generally 
potentially advantageous to its customers. It was not tailored advice for Mr I 
personally. And, as Ive said above, Ive seen nothing else relating to what BoS 
said to Mr and Mrs I about the insurance. So Ive nothing on which to make a 
finding that they were pressurised;
Mr and Mrs I say that the policy was sold to them by post. And I can see that an offer for 
it was in the letter. However, BoS can no longer confirm how the sale proceeded. But, in 
any event, this doesnt change my decision. As Ive previously said, I dont find that the 
wording of the letter amounts to a specific recommendation tailored to Mr and Mrs Is 
circumstances to buy the insurance. But, to give them the fairest outcome, Ive 
considered their complaint on the basis that BoS did advise them to take out the policy. 
This means that it had to take reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs I. BoS also had to give them clear, fair and not-misleading information so that they 
could make an informed decision whether they wanted to take the insurance or not, in 
the light of their circumstances at the time.
I dont know what steps, if any, BoS took to check the suitability of the MPPI. But, 
knowing what I do about the terms and conditions of the policy, and Mr and Mrs Is 
circumstances I find that it was suitable because:
oMr I was eligible for the policy;
oI havent seen anything to suggest that Mr I would have been caught by any of 
the MPPSs main restrictions and limitations  such as those affecting someone 
who had a pre-existing medical condition;
oI dont know why the policy was in Mr Is sole name. I can see that around the 
time of the sale Mrs I was working shorter hours because she was undertaking 
some studies. That might have had a bearing on this decision. But, in any event, I 
havent seen anything to suggest that this was not a reasonable decision;
oIm satisfied that the policy was reasonably priced by reference to other policies 
available in the market at the time. And it offered reasonable benefits. And I 
havent seen anything to make me think that Mr and Mrs I couldnt afford the 
premiums. Anyway, because it was paid for monthly, had they later thought that 
they couldnt afford the MPPI, or no longer wanted it, they could have cancelled it 
at any time without further cost. This is something which they did in fact do;oMr I was entitled to sick pay from his employment. But, following a successful 
claim, the MPPI would have paid out in addition to this, leaving his employment 
benefit available to help meet other expenses while he was unable to work;
So I find that the policy could have been of use to Mr and Mrs I. I say this particularly 
bearing in mind the serious consequences that could have arisen had Mr and Mrs I 
been unable to make their mortgage repayments, which were secured on their home;
Its possible that BoS didnt tell Mr and Mrs I everything that it ought to have about 
the policy when it sold it to them. But, as Ive concluded above that it was suitable for 
them and they seem to have wanted this type of cover, I think that they would still 
have taken it had BoS given them clearer information.
As Ive said, Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs I have told us, including that they had 
family who would have helped them make their mortgage repayments had Mr I not been 
working. As we explain on our website, we dont usually take this into account, because 
circumstances change  and such assistance isnt guaranteed. Theres nothing Ive found in 
Mr and Mrs Is case to make me think its reasonable to deviate from this approach here. 
Mr and Mrs I have also told us that they had property abroad. But I dont consider that it is 
clear that they could have, or would have been prepared to sell such property in time to 
avoid getting into difficulties with their mortgage repayments had the need arised. I would 
also like to clarify that, once Mr and Mrs I paid off the loan from BoS in 2005, their mortgage 
with it came to an end. So, as our adjudicator pointed out, the decision in the case of Plevin 
doesnt apply to their complaint. So this and Mr and Mrs Is other comments dont change my 
decision.
From all the above I conclude that Mr and Mrs I havent lost out because of anything that 
may have been wrong with BoS sales process. So theres nothing I require BoS to put right
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman