DRN-3997811
The complaint
Mr P complains that Experian Limited merged his brothers data with his credit file. Mr P also 
complains about a hard credit search he didnt consent to being recorded on his Experian 
credit file. Mr P further complains that Experian failed to respond when he initially contacted 
it about issues with his credit file. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr P referred another complaint to this service that related to details of his brothers 
credit being recorded on his credit file. An ombudsman issued a final decision and upheld 
Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr Ps told us that in April 2022 he found a hard credit search noted on his credit file for a 
business Ill call V. Mr Ps explained he didnt consent to the credit search and tried to 
contact Experian to have it removed. But Mr P says that despite chasing Experian, no 
response was received. 
In August 2022 Mr P found information from his brothers credit file showing on his report. 
Mr Ps explained that he was looking to remortgage around this time but the process was 
delayed while he contacted Experian to correct his credit file. Mr Ps told us his remortgage 
completed in October 2022. Mr P complained to Experian and it sent him a final response in 
late September 2022. 
Experians final response noted Mr P had given consent to V to carry out a credit search in 
September 2021 but not in January 2022. Experian apologised that the agent Mr P spoke 
with failed to offer to dispute the credit search with V. But Experian said that in May 2022 V 
had taken the step of removing the additional credit search from his credit file. 
Experian also said Mr Ps brothers information had been incorrectly linked to his credit file 
due to similarities between their personal details. Experian completed a process called 
disassociation which removed Mr Ps brothers information from his credit file. Experian 
also refunded a £14.99 membership fee and sent Mr P a cheque for £150 to apologise for 
the issues raised. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Within its file 
submission, Experian said it wanted to offer Mr P a further £50. But our investigator thought 
an additional payment of £150, taking the total compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to £300, was a fairer way to resolve Mr Ps complaint. 
Experian didnt agree that the additional compensation was fair. Mr P didnt agree either. 
Mr P said the delay with his remortgage had led to a higher interest rate at a cost of around 
£86 a month. Mr P also gave personal information about his health and how the issues 
raised have impacted him and said he feels the level of compensation offered should be 
higher. As neither party accepted the investigators view, Mr Ps case has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Mr Ps raised concerns about Vs credit search. Experians final response noted Mr P 
consented to an earlier credit search but not the one V completed in January 2022. Experian 
also said its agent shouldve offered to dispute the search with V when Mr P contacted it. 
However, V went on to remove the credit search without contact from Experian in May 2022. 
When Mr P contacted Experian, it shouldve offered to contact V and raise a dispute 
concerning the hard search recorded. Experians final response apologised that its agent 
failed to offer to dispute the credit search on his behalf. But Mr P made contact directly and 
was able to get V to remove its fault. Ive taken Mr Ps comments into account when deciding 
how to fairly resolve his complaint. 
Experians explained that due to similarities between Mr Ps personal information and his 
brothers, details were incorrectly recorded on his credit file. Mr P complained to Experian 
around the time he was applying for a remortgage. Experians final response from late 
September 2022 explained how the issue came about and that Mr Ps brothers information 
had been removed from his credit file. Experian also said that steps had been taken to 
ensure the information wouldnt show again. Experian has provided a copy of Mr Ps 
amended credit file that shows the disputed data has been removed. And Mr P confirmed his 
remortgage was able to complete in October 2022. 
I can understand why Mr P is upset his brothers information was recorded on his credit file. 
Especially as the issue has occurred in the past. Mr Ps provided an email from his mortgage 
broker that shows he was looking to take out a new mortgage during this period. And Mr Ps 
explained that ensuring his credit file was correct caused unreasonable delays that impacted 
the interest rate he was able to take. 
We have access to trade press that shows the mortgage products offered across the market 
 including the lender Mr P used (C). The information Ive seen shows Cs mortgage 
products didnt change during the period Mr P asked Experian to remove his brothers 
information from his credit file. So whilst I understand why Mr P is upset at having someone 
elses information on his credit file, it doesnt appear to have impacted the mortgage interest 
rate.  
Ive looked at how the issues raised have impacted Mr P. Mr Ps given us lots of information 
about his health and how the problems he experienced were affected. I want to assure Mr P 
Ive noted everything hes told us and taken us into account, including how the issues raised 
impacted his health. As Ive said above, I agree that Experian ought to have raised a dispute 
with V when Mr P contacted it about the credit search he found. I can understand why 
having Mr Ps brothers information on his credit file caused so much concern for Mr P. Im 
satisfied that Mr P makes a reasonable point when he says the addition of his brothers 
information caused delays with his mortgage application as he wanted to ensure his credit 
file was correct before proceeding. Taking everything Mr P has told us about his circumstances, health and the level of 
frustration caused, I agree that £150 doesnt fairly reflect the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused. Ive considered how to fairly resolve Mr Ps complaint. Our 
investigator recommended an increase in the settlement from £150 to £300. I agree with the 
investigator that, in addition to the £14.99 refund Experian issued, £300 fairly reflects the 
impact of the issues raised on Mr P and the level of trouble and upset caused. Ive noted 
Mr Ps comments, but I havent been persuaded there are grounds to increase the award 
further. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Experian Limited to settle as follows: 
- In addition to the £14.99 refund, Experian should pay Mr P a total of £300 (less any 
compensation already paid)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman