DRN-1848242
 
The complaint
Mrs N has complained about loans granted to her by Evergreen Finance London Limited 
trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat or the lender). Mrs N says that MoneyBoat 
didnt carry out a sufficient check on her finances before lending to her. She says that the 
loans were unaffordable for her and it would have known this because of the amount of other 
debt she had at the time.
What happened
MoneyBoat agreed four loans for Mrs N between November 2018 and February 2019. The 
loans were instalment loans due to be repaid over three to six payments and they ranged in 
value from £200 to £1,000. The below table sets out some of the information MoneyBoat has 
provided about these loans (with numbers rounded to the nearest pound). I understand that 
Mrs N hadnt repaid her last loan when she brought her complaint to this Service.
 
Loan Start date End dateTerm 
(months)Principal (£)Monthly 
repayment (£)
1 14/11/2018 28/11/2018 3 200 89
2 05/12/2018 11/12/2018 4 400 154
3 31/12/2018 14/01/2019 6 1,000 308
4 07/02/2019 Not repaid 6 1,000 293
 
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Ns complaint and recommended that it be upheld in part 
and that MoneyBoat refunds the interest and charges she paid for loans 3 and 4. MoneyBoat 
didnt respond to our adjudicators recommendation and so the complaint came to me, as an 
ombudsman, to resolve.
I issued my provisional decision on 5 May 2020 explaining why I was thinking of coming to a 
different view of Mrs Ns complaint and provisionally found that MoneyBoat was irresponsible 
to have agreed any loans for her.
MoneyBoat disagreed with my provisional decision. The lender said it considered that the 
checks it carried out were proportionate for the loans especially given the infancy of the 
lending relationship. It explained that the early stages of its lending process are automated, 
most are based on the borrower meeting certain requirements built in to its lending system 
and that it would be unrealistic for an underwriter to sit and review every line of a credit file 
prior to lending. 
MoneyBoat also said that You may well make the assertion that as we had the information 
we should've looked at it, however given the nature of the market we are in where people 
are often looking for short term loans as a matter of urgency and require and quick and efficient service it is as already stated wholly impractical to sit and review every line of a 
credit file for every loan - nor have I found anywhere in [Financial Conduct Authority] 
guidance that suggests we are obliged to undertake such an endeavour.
This is now my final decision on the matter and, if Mrs N accepts this, it will be legally 
binding on the parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, including what MoneyBoat said in 
response to my provisional decision. As before, I have also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time.
I want to reassure MoneyBoat that I have considered carefully what it said in response to my 
provisional findings. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for it but I am still of the 
view that its lending was irresponsible on each occasion. Ive explained my reasons in my 
provisional decision and, for completeness, will set them out again here along with my 
response to its comments.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that 
approach here. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Mrs N took 
out her loans. Its relevant rules and guidance are set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) which said that for all loans MoneyBoat needed to check that Mrs N could afford to 
meet her repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant Mrs N being able to meet her 
repayments out of her normal income without having to go without or borrow further.
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks MoneyBoat needed to carry out in 
order to reasonably assess whether Mrs N would be able to meet her repayments 
sustainably. So MoneyBoat is correct to say that the regulations dont set out exactly how it 
ought to go about making such an assessment. But the regulations are clear that such 
checks needed to be proportionate. In other words, the same checks might not be the 
appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same consumer in all circumstances. For 
convenience, I am quoting some of the relevant regulations here. 
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment, and the steps that the firm must 
take to satisfy the requirement that the assessment is a reasonable one, based on sufficient 
information, are dependent upon, and proportionate to, the individual circumstances of each 
case. (CONC 5.2A.20R)
When considering, having regard to the factors in CONC 5.2A.20R, what steps the firm 
needs to undertake to make the creditworthiness assessment a reasonable one, the firm 
should consider whether the factors point towards a more or less rigorous assessment. 
Certain factors may point towards a more rigorous assessment and others towards a less 
rigorous one in which case the firm should weigh up the factors before deciding what type of 
creditworthiness assessment is required. (CONC 5.2A.21G)
The firm should also have regard to information of which it is aware at the time the 
creditworthiness assessment is carried out that may indicate that: (1) the customer is in, has 
recently experienced, or is likely to experience, financial difficulties  (CONC 5.2A.22G)
CONC 5.2A.24G states:The volume and content of the information that must be taken into account, and the steps 
that must be taken (if any) to evaluate that information and confirm its validity, will depend on 
the level of affordability risk arising out of the agreement. 
Factors that will affect that level of risk include the actual or potential cost of the credit and 
the total amount payable in absolute terms and relative to the customers financial 
circumstances, where known. So, if, for example, all other things being equal, the amounts 
of the repayments and the total charge for credit are low, the amount of information that is 
sufficient to support a reasonable creditworthiness assessment may be less than would be 
required:
a.in the case of more expensive credit or credit that is higher in amount; or
b.where it is known that the customers financial situation is such that the credit may be 
expected to have a more significant impact.
 
And CONC 5.2A.25G states:
In relation to CONC 5.2A.24G(1), potential indicators that the level of affordability risk arising 
out of the agreement may be high include circumstances where:
a.the total value of the customers outstanding debts relative to the customers income 
is high; or
b.there is a high likelihood that the customer will not make repayments under the 
agreement by their due dates.
 
And finally CONC 5.2A.26R states that
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information relevant to the creditworthiness 
assessment.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks in the first 
instance
    the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
    the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
    the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat says it asked Mrs N for information about her income and expenses each time 
she applied for a loan. It recorded her monthly income as £1,344 and her total expenses as 
£800 for all loans. This included an amount of £300 for credit repayments. MoneyBoat also said that it gathered information about Mrs N from a third-party credit reference agency and 
provided the results of its checks.
It would seem, on first looking, that the checks MoneyBoat carried out were thorough and 
proportionate, at least for Mrs Ns first two loans. As the lender has said, this was early on in 
the lending relationship. These loans were taken out and repaid within a month and the 
repayments seemed affordable in relation to Mrs Ns declared disposable income.  However, 
this doesnt necessarily mean that MoneyBoat made fair lending decisions.
On reviewing the information MoneyBoat gathered when Mrs N first applied for a loan, I can 
see that she was spending far more than she declared to the lender on repaying existing 
credit each month. For example, Mrs N had three long-term loans with monthly payments 
totalling over £700. She also had several short term loans. The information showed that 
shed opened 16 new accounts in the previous six months and had 24 searches carried out 
on her credit file. Altogether Mrs N was spending almost her entire monthly income meeting 
repayment on over £20,000 of debt.
The information MoneyBoat gathered at the time of Mrs Ns applications for loans 3 and 4 
showed a similar picture to the information it had for her first two loans, with an increased 
number of credit searches. And by now it seems Mrs N had needed to make arrangements 
to repay at least two of her existing loans.
So, it seems to me that Mrs N was over indebted when she first applied to MoneyBoat and 
could not afford to meet repayments for further credit in a sustainable manner. Mrs N might 
not have disclosed the extent of her existing debts but the information MoneyBoat had 
available to it clearly showed this. 
Furthermore, I think MoneyBoat ought to have sought a more comprehensive picture of 
Mrs Ns finances when she applied for loans 3 and 4, given the increase in the loan amounts 
and associated repayments and that she had applied for each of these within a few weeks of 
repaying a previous loan, all of which suggests Mrs N needed to borrow again to meet the 
gap caused by repaying previous loans.
Mrs N has provided her bank statements from around this time, and these support the 
information shown on her credit reports. To be clear Im not suggesting MoneyBoat ought to 
have looked through Mrs Ns bank statements but, had it sought to verify some of the 
information she provided when she applied for these loans, I think it would have confirmed 
what it already knew, in other words that Mrs N wasnt in a position to sustainably repay 
further credit.
MoneyBoat said in response to my provisional decision that it would be unrealistic to fully 
review the information it had for each customer application. I appreciate that perspective and 
it is not for me to comment on its business processes. However, in this particular case, it 
would not have taken a line by line analysis of Mrs Ns credit file to show her monthly debt 
repayments were far higher than what shed said and that there was a risk to her of not 
managing to meet the repayment for its loans without difficulty. And so in this case I find it 
was irresponsible to have agreed any further credit for Mrs N at that time. 
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, I find that MoneyBoat was irresponsible to have agreed credit for
Mrs N. In order to put things right for her, MoneyBoat should
a.  refund the interest and fees Mrs N paid for loans 1, 2 and 3; andb.  pay interest on all these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement; and
c.   remove any adverse information about these loans from Mrs Ns credit file.
I understand that Mrs Ns fourth loan was not fully repaid. In order to put her back into the 
position she would have been had this not been agreed for her MoneyBoat needs to ensure 
that Mrs N only repays the principal borrowed. In other words she should not pay any 
interest or charges for the loan. So MoneyBoat needs to:
d.  remove any interest and charges that make up the outstanding loan balance; and
e.  treat all payments that Mrs N has made towards this loan as payments towards the 
principal borrowed; and
f.    remove any adverse information about this loan from Mrs Ns credit file, once the 
remaining principal debt has been repaid.
MoneyBoat can use the refund from a) + b) above to repay any outstanding principal on
Mrs Ns fourth loan, if it is still the owner of the debt. If it has passed the debt on then it 
needs to work with the new owner to carry out steps d) to f) above.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
As Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ns complaint about Evergreen Finance London Limited 
trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk and require it to put things right for her as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman