DRN-3403931
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) provided him with poor service when he tried to raise a complaint about the 
car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement and when he tried to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement.
What happened
Mr C entered into a conditional sale agreement with BPF in February 2017 to acquire a used 
car. In March 2019 the engine failed which he says was due to a manufacturing fault. He 
contacted BPF several times but says his case kept being closed without him being 
contacted. He then had the car repaired. 
Mr C asked to voluntarily terminate (VT) his agreement. He says he completed the VT forms 
around August 2019 but didnt hear anything until October 2019 when he was told the car 
would be collected. He thought this was for the VT but then found out the car was being 
repossessed due to missed payments. Mr C then received a response from BPF saying that 
he could pay an amount to make his total payments half the total amount due and then the 
arears would be removed and he could VT his agreement. Mr C says he accepted this but 
wanted his credit file amended. BPF didnt agree to this. Mr C says he made the payment 
after further difficulties and asked that the complaint team contact him, but this didnt 
happen. 
BPF says Mr C initially contacted it in March 2019 as his car engine had failed. It says it has 
issued more than one final response letter about this issue and Mr C didnt then refer this 
complaint to the financial ombudsman service within the required timeframe and so it didnt 
consent to this issue being considered further. With regards to voluntary termination, BPF 
says the documents were sent to Mr C in September 2019 but werent received back. Due to 
the level of arrears on the account, a notice of default was issued in November 2019. It says 
no errors were made when Mr Cs account was passed to its legal representatives.
BPF issued a final response in June 2020 which said that voluntary termination was still an 
option available to Mr C. It said Mr C would be liable to pay the shortfall of £588.06 to get to 
the required amount to VT his agreement. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted the issues raised about the quality of 
the car were addressed in the April 2019 and January 2020 final response letters and that 
the complaint wasnt referred to this service within the required timeframe and so he didnt 
consider this further. He explained his view was in relation to the issues addressed in the 
June 2020 final response letter.
Our investigator said although Mr C had said he had returned the VT documents, evidence 
of this hadnt been provided. He noted that on a call in February 2020, Mr C had said he 
didnt want to sign the forms as he didnt want to be held responsible for the arrears so he 
didnt think BPF had done anything wrong by continuing its course of action. He said that 
Mr C could contact BPF directly to discuss his account and a possible VT if he wished.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators view. He put forward an offer to BPF which it didnt 
accept. BPF said that Mr C could discuss the VT with it further and provided the contact 
details.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved it has been passed to me, an ombudsman to issue a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has raised several concerns and I can understand why he is upset by the issues he 
has experienced. This decision relates to the issues that Mr C raised and were addressed by 
BPF in its June 2020 final response letter, that being primarily in regard to the VT of his 
agreement.
I can understand why Mr C is upset with the time that has been taken on this complaint and 
that he is still needing to discuss the VT of the agreement. However, having looked at the 
information provided; I do not have evidence that BPF received Mr Cs VT documents. The 
notes show that Mr C says he will send the VT documents in September 2019 but the notes 
from January 2020 show these still havent been returned. Notes from a call in February 
2020 show that Mr C said he wont be returning the VT documents. In the June 2020 final 
response letter BPF explained VT is still an option for Mr C. So, while I note Mr Cs 
comments, (including his concern about the VT happening before his complaint had been 
resolved), based on the evidence I have seen I cannot say BPF has received VT documents 
from him and based on the discussion, Mr C would have been reasonably aware of this. 
Therefore, I cannot say it has done anything wrong by not progressing this action. 
In response to the offer made in the June 2020 final response letter, I can see that Mr C 
made the payment set out to take the total amount he had paid to half the total amount 
payable under the agreement and that this was done within the required timeframe of the 
offer. As a result of this BPF confirmed it removed the arrears. However, as the VT 
documents werent provided at that time the VT hasnt taken place.
So, overall, while I appreciate how frustrating Mr C has found this process, I do no think that 
BPF has done anything wrong. It has said that as a termination notice hasnt been issued 
the option to request a VT is still available to Mr C and has provided the contact details for 
him to discuss this. I find this reasonable and if Mr C does still wish to discuss this option he 
should contact BPF directly.
In regard to the information recorded on Mr Cs credit file, I understand that Mr C has 
previously asked for this to be amended. However as the VT documents werent received 
the payments continued to be due under Mr Cs agreement and so without evidence that any 
adverse information has been incorrectly recorded I cannot say that BPF was wrong to 
record with the credit reference agencies the status of Mr Cs account.
In conclusion, while I understand why Mr C is upset, I do not find that BPF has done 
anything wrong in its response to the VT request as the VT documents havent been 
received. It has said that Mr C can discuss this option with the relevant team and so if this is 
still what Mr C wishes to do then I would suggest he contacts BPF directly (if he hasnt 
already done so). My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman