DRN-2873659
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way that MBNA Limited dealt with his claim that he had been the 
victim of fraud.
What happened
Mr P says he discovered payments he disputed on his credit card account when he received 
a notification. He says that he hadnt received the replacement card used and had kept his 
PIN safe. So, he wasnt responsible for the payments. He is unhappy that MBNA wouldnt 
accept this and felt that he was being accused of fraud and that it wouldnt investigate things 
properly. It hadnt apologised and admitted it made a mistake. Mr P says he was worried he 
could be reported on databases as a fraudster and that this has caused him significant 
emotional distress.
MBNA said that it had sent a replacement card to Mr P in June 2020 and this had been used 
for the disputed payments. Some of these were shown as being made using chip and PIN. 
As Mr P couldnt explain how his PIN could have been discovered it decided to hold him 
responsible for all the payments. But in apparent error it had then refunded them and so he 
had no financial loss. And it maintained that it had reached the right decision in the first 
place. It confirmed to this service that it hadnt registered any adverse markers against Mr P.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and Mr P paid £100 in 
compensation. MBNA agreed to this. She said that the payments disputed came to a total of 
£187.24 and were made on 25 and 27 June 2020. MBNA refunded the payments on 1 July 
2020 and so there was no refund claim now outstanding for Mr P.
MBNA had provided an audit log showing how the payments were verified. The majority 
were made online or were contactless. There were three payments of £1 each to the same 
merchant. Of these two showed that they were chip and PIN verified and one was 
contactless. This is why MBNA had asked Mr P about whether he had kept his PIN safe and 
hadnt accepted that he hadnt authorised the payments. Mr P had shown he had contacted 
the merchant which had accepted these payments. That third party stated to him that these 
were made with a vending machine which only accepted contactless payments.
Our investigator said that the nature of the questions Mr P was asked about the payments by 
MBNA wasnt inappropriate. But she thought that given the ambiguity about the chip and PIN 
payments MBNA ought to have opened a fraud case as Mr P had asked. That would have 
resulted in less distress for Mr P at the time. But as shed said the money had been 
refunded. And Mr P could have enquired further about any possible fraud marker had he 
been concerned about this or believed there to have been an impact from this. The refunds 
would have been visible on Mr Ps account after 1 July 2020 and showed on the statement 
of that date. And Mr P would have been aware of this when he received a final response 
from MBNA date 28 July 2020. This service doesnt have a role in setting processes as we 
arent the regulator and we are only looking at the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said it was clear that MBNA 
had made a mistake and that this had caused him emotional distress. He had been falsely 
accused and this wasnt rectified by the refund being made to him in error too. He didnt think 
it acceptable that he hadnt been told about the refund earlier. And he disagreed that his 
concerns about a possible fraud marker werent legitimate ones. He didnt know he could 
phone up to ask about this. The root cause here was a failure to distinguish chip and PIN 
and contactless payments. The compensation wasnt satisfactory and didnt reflect the 
distress caused to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide informal dispute resolution and as our investigator says we arent the regulator. 
We dont make punitive awards and we assess compensation taking into account our 
published guidelines.
I listened in full to a recording of the relevant conversation between Mr P and MBNA as he 
specifically requested. During this call MBNA said it wouldnt be setting up a fraud 
investigation but that it would be treating this as a complaint. I would make the following 
observations about this call:
- While Mr P didnt agree with the outcome I dont believe that the manner in which he 
was dealt with was unreasonable and the questions inappropriate.
- MBNA went through a number of scenarios with him about how the PIN could have 
been discovered and gave him the opportunity to explain his position. MBNA 
explained why it wouldnt be taking this forward.
- Mr P himself asked incisive questions about the payments and specifically raised 
legitimate questions about the nature of the said chip and PIN transactions and why 
a fraudster in possession of the card and PIN would only make payments of a few 
pounds. He also said that as these seemed to be vending machine payments he 
didnt think that these would have required a PIN. He asked whether it would be too 
much trouble for MBNA to look into this. In response MBNA said that this was as far 
as any fraud investigation would go but that the complaints team would revisit this.
- MBNA asked Mr P what resolution he wanted for his complaint and he said a refund 
of the payments but that the real issue was that he felt he was being accused of lying 
and this caused him emotional distress.
- MBNA confirmed that from the next day  29 June 2020  he would be able to 
access his account online again  his inability to do so then was as his other card 
had been cancelled. 
Mr P has shown that he was then in contact with the merchant that operated the vending 
machines and that it told him on 2 July 2020 that our vending machines do not have chip 
and pin, they are all contactless. 
I appreciate Mr P says that this complaint was never about financial loss but about MBNA 
not recognising a clear mistake. But the point is that the original claim to MBNA from Mr P 
was about payments he didnt recognise on his account. Those have been refunded. So, I 
dont now need to make a finding about whether these should have been refunded for a 
different reason or not to put Mr P back in the financial position he says he ought to have 
been in. And so, I wont need to resolve the inconsistency in the way the payments when 
originated through this specific merchant were reported.I agree with our investigator that given the ambiguity about the payments Ive referred to 
MBNA ought otherwise to have looked into things further- the point being that it was the 
expert in the way payments were processed. But when it said it wouldnt Mr P was able to 
raise a complaint and a final response dated 28 July 2020 was issued giving him referral 
rights to this service. Ive seen a copy of his July account statement issued on 1 July 2020 
which shows the refunds to the account. I have also referred to him having his own proof by 
2 July 2020 that these payments werent made by chip and PIN which likely gave him some 
confidence in his own position. Im not clear if he did provide this to MBNA as he doesnt 
refer to this in his timeline of events and he says he had no contact from the complaints 
team until a missed call just before the final response was issued. But in any event I do think 
the related refunds were reasonably apparent to him and paid within a few days and his 
basis for significant further worry about this not as apparent.
Mr P signed a complaint form to this service on 19 January 2021 and has explained how he 
says this matter has affected him. I note there have been no fraud markers applied and that 
wasnt something hed ever raised with MBNA. He did not do anything else about this, and  I 
dont have a reasonable basis to hold MBNA responsible for the worry he describes about 
this possibility, and which turned out to be unfounded. 
Putting things right
I need to decide on the compensation appropriate to reflect MBNA telling Mr P it wouldnt be 
looking into a fraud claim. I agree with our investigator that £100 is the fair amount here. In 
deciding on this I take into account how quickly the refund of the payments was made and 
the final response letter which gave no indication of any ongoing concern by MBNA about 
the background to the payments. It stated, Please accept my sincere apologies for any 
upset that was caused because of this. I appreciate that Mr P has indicated he wanted 
significantly more for the months of worry. I understand his position but Im afraid I dont see 
for the reasons Ive given that there is a reasonable basis for more than Ive awarded here. I 
know he will be disappointed by this.
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require MBNA Limited to pay Mr P £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman