DRN-2217829
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain that Lloyds Bank Plc (trading at the time of sale as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them an MPPI policy. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 August 2020 that I will summarise 
below.
Mr K and Mrs K took out a mortgage in 2000 and at the same time took out an MPPI policy 
that covered Mr K only against accidents, sickness and unemployment. The MPPI policy 
was cancelled in 2003 and the mortgage ended in 2008.
 
Mr K and Mrs K told our service it was not advised to them that the MPPI policy was 
optional. They add that they have no recollection of discussing MPPI. They also said they 
didnt need the policy due to sick pay and savings that they held.
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint so as both parties didnt agree at this point, it 
was passed to me to look into. I also didnt uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint. 
I concluded that it was more likely than not they were sold the MPPI policy, initially through a 
phone call and then through forms sent to them to complete and send back. I said Mr K and 
Mrs Ks recollections were not detailed and that I had placed weight on the documentation 
from the time of sale, including a separate MPPI application form that I felt demonstrated the 
policy was presented as optional.
 
I thought the MPPI policy was recommended to Mr K and Mrs K and that it was not 
unsuitable for Mr K as the sole policy holder based on what I saw of his circumstances at the 
time of sale. I couldnt be sure if the costs of the policy had been disclosed clearly but I felt 
they wouldve gone ahead and taken the policy anyway. I didnt uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks 
complaint and invited further comments by 25 September 2020.
Lloyds Bank Plc didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs K replied on 2 September 2020 and made further points. I will summarise them:
They strongly take issue with my findings. In particular they have never advised that 
they were told MPPI was a part of obtaining a mortgage. They say they switched 
mortgages purely for cash back. They say they had no PPI on the existing mortgage 
at that time and so had no rationale in accepting a new mortgage with an additional 
cost of PPI.
They say Lloyds were not the contracting entity in this case, so they cant understand 
how my opinion on how Lloyds sold the policy is relevant.
They say my conclusion on how I suggested the policy was presented as optional is 
incorrect.
They say Lloyds never recommended the MPPI and no advice was given at all.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mr K and Mrs Ks comments and acknowledge what they have said. I can 
see that they have been consistent about their view that they were not advised about PPI 
and do not have a recollection of MPPI being discussed with them. They say they were 
given forms in the post to sign and send back and that is what they did.
 
In my provisional decision, after looking at everything both parties provided, I could see that 
Lloyds said they sold the MPPI policy and arranged the mortgage during a phone call, where 
it then sent the sales documentation to Mr K and Mrs K to sign and return to it. I could also 
see the forms had been date stamped. I concluded that Mr K and Mrs K had a phone call 
discussion with Lloyds about the mortgage and MPPI and then Lloyds sent the paperwork 
out to them to complete, which they then did. 
Mr and Mrs K have again reiterated in their response to my provisional decision that they 
were simply sent out the forms by Lloyds to sign and did so. They say because of this they 
were not recommended the policy and were not given an option to have it. So, I have looked 
into this again.
On the mortgage application form provided by Lloyds and signed by Mr K and Mrs K, I can 
see on section 12 a box that states, issued by C&G teledirect. After seeing this, I can see 
that the forms were issued and sent by an advisor from Lloyds after a phone call. Based on 
what I know of these sales carried out on the phone by Lloyds at this time, I think it more 
likely than not that Mr K and Mrs K were given advice to have MPPI with their mortgage and 
they agreed to have it. They then completed the forms including a separate MPPI application 
form that presented it as optional to them. They sent the forms back and then Lloyds date 
stamped the forms and went on from this point, with Mr K and Mrs Ks agreement to set the 
MPPI policy up.
Mr and Mrs K have mentioned that Lloyds were not the contracting entity at the time of sale. 
Cheltenham & Gloucester became a subsidiary of Lloyds and because of this, it has taken 
responsibility for this sale of MPPI in this instance. So as Lloyds have taken responsibility for 
the sale, I have referred to it throughout.
In conclusion, I am persuaded based on what I have seen that the policy was more likely 
than not sold during a phone call and that they were given the choice to have it. Mr K and 
Mrs K then completed a separate MPPI policy after the sale that also presented it as 
optional. I know it will be a disappointment for Mr K and Mrs K but It follows that I dont think 
the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman