DRN-2845103
The complaint
Miss L complained that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) lent to her irresponsibly 
and about the way it treated her when she wasnt able to make the loan repayments.
What happened
Miss L took out a Cashfloat loan as follows: 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
111/08/2019 Outstanding 2 £400.00 £254.41
Miss L complained that:
Cashfloat didnt sufficiently check her finances and personal situation, such as 
employment status, income, expenditure and financial history to ensure that she 
would be in a position to pay back the loan 
when she couldnt repay the loan Cashfloat didnt respond sympathetically and 
positively 
in addition, Cashfloat didnt offer to freeze interest and charges when she was unable 
to make payments under a reasonable repayment plan.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss L and Cashfloat told us about this loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. 
During an exchange of correspondence with Miss L he explained why he didnt think that the 
information gathered raised concerns that the loans wouldnt be affordable or that Cashfloat 
saw anything that shouldve prompted it to do more checks before agreeing to lend. 
And he didnt think that Cashfloat had acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. 
Miss L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
Miss L mainly said that she believed the amounts of interest charged on the loan needed to 
be looked into further and that Cashfloat charged her more than 100% of the loan amount in 
interest and fees. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Cashfloat provided Miss L with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use so it needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss L could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Miss Ls income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint. 
Before lending to Miss L, Cashfloat asked her for information about her financial situation, 
such as her monthly income and her outgoings. It also asked about any other credit 
commitments and carried out independent checks behind the scenes to satisfy itself that it 
could rely on the figures it used to assess affordability of the loan. 
Cashfloat says it agreed to Miss Ls application only after carrying out all proper checks and 
the information it recorded for Miss L showed that she could comfortably make the loan 
repayments so it was reasonable to lend. 
This was Miss Ls first (and only) loan with Cashfloat. The amount she asked to borrow was 
relatively modest compared to the monthly take home pay she had declared  she said her 
net monthly salary was around £1,500 (plus other income of £100) and Cashfloat took steps 
to verify this and was satisfied that it could safely rely on what shed said about her take 
home pay.
It appeared that Miss L had been in secure work for some time so although she later 
unfortunately lost her job, I dont think this wouldve been something that Cashfloat couldve 
reasonably foreseen when it was considering her loan application. 
Looking at the information recorded, it seems Miss Ls declared costs came to £1,000  
including £100 being paid towards other credit commitments. 
The background checks Cashfloat carried out didnt give rise to any concerns about the 
information she had provided on her application. 
Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and taking into account 
the information it seems Miss L told Cashfloat about her monthly income and what she was 
paying out, this loan looked comfortably affordable for Miss L. 
I havent seen anything in the information that Cashfloat gathered about Miss L that makes 
me think it shouldve realised that Miss L was going to find it difficult to afford to pay this loan 
in a sustainable way.  
Im sorry that Miss L had a problem with debt and that making the loan repayments shed 
signed up to was difficult for her. I accept that possibly Miss Ls actual circumstances werent 
fully reflected either in the information she provided or the other information Cashfloat 
obtained. And in coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Miss L 
has said, including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. But I dont think a proportionate check wouldve required Cashfloat to make any more in-
depth enquiries such as asking Miss L to prove what she was declaring or that it needed to 
check other information sources to verify what she had told them (or omitted to say) about 
her financial circumstances. So I cant fairly uphold her irresponsible lending complaint. 
As far as I can see, I think its fair to say that Cashfloat tried to work with Miss L when she 
asked for time to pay. Our adjudicator set out in some detail the course of events that 
followed when Miss L got in touch with Cashfloat to discuss her change in circumstances 
and her payment problems. Ive independently reviewed all the information thats available 
and I dont think there is anything further I can usefully add to what our adjudicator said 
about this part of Miss Ls complaint. Based on all the information thats available, I cant 
fairly say that Cashfloat has acted in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable in the course of 
its discussions about revising her payment arrangements. 
This was a high interest loan and I can appreciate that Miss L might now feel this has 
unfairly added to her debt problems. But the loan documents set out the terms and the 
amount of interest payable. Miss L applied for this loan and she had to actively engage in the 
loan application process. The annual percentage rate of charge (APR) on the loan was 
shown as 1260.8270% - so Miss L had a standardised comparison figure if she had wanted 
to shop around and check out different loan costs. 
The agreement showed she would need to make two payments of £254.41.The total amount 
repayable was shown as £508.82 and there was information explaining that if the two 
monthly repayments were made on time then loan would cost £108.82 in interest (and no 
fees would be charged). 
There was also information shown on the loan agreement about costs in the case of late 
payments and the consequences of missing payments. And, even after taking out the loan, 
Miss L had 14 days to withdraw from it if she changed her mind and during that time she 
could have returned the £400 and closed the loan without paying any interest. 
Taking everything into account, I think Miss L was aware she was taking a high cost loan on 
terms she seemed happy to agree to at the time. So I cant fairly say that the high cost of this 
credit is a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
And I havent seen anything to make me think that Cashfloat has charged interest that 
exceeds the price cap regulations set by the regulator. A lender must not charge interest of 
more than 100% of the original loan. Cashfloat has confirmed that when the amount of 
interest charged reached the loan amount (£400) interest was frozen at that point and no 
further interest has been  or will be  added.  
Looked at overall, I havent seen enough to make me think this is a case where Cashfloat 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably or that it would be fair and reasonable for me to award 
any redress. 
I expect Cashfloat to continue to work with Miss L and to treat her positively and 
sympathetically if she is continuing to experience financial difficulty. I would encourage 
Miss L to provide details of her financial situation to Cashfloat if she still needs time to pay 
the outstanding balance on the loan. 
And if Miss L would like help to manage her finances theres more information about how to 
get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman