DRN-4331427
The complaint
Mr H complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) declined a claim he made 
on his home emergency policy for a problem with a leaking toilet.
What happened
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
The policy covers problems or failures in the drainage system, up to £1,000 per 
claim. It covers the cost of a temporary repair or a permanent repair if the cost is the 
same or less than a temporary repair.
It seems to be accepted the problem is a leak from the soil vent pipe and thats 
covered in principle by the policy.
D&G sent a plumber and said it carried out a temporary repair. But Mr H says they 
didnt carry out a repair  and D&G hasnt provided any evidence to show it carried 
out any work. Its acknowledged the leak has continued, so even if it did carry out any 
work, Im not satisfied it amounts to a repair of any description.
D&G declined the claim, telling Mr H the level of insurance is not sufficient for the 
claim. It didnt specify which policy term(s) it was relying on.
After our investigator upheld the complaint, D&G highlighted a policy term which said 
it would only carry out a repair if the equipment was accessible. But D&G hasnt 
provided any evidence to suggest it cant access the equipment in this case.
D&G also said the cost of the work is over the £1,000 claim limit. It hasnt provided 
an estimate for the work at Mr Hs home. But it says a potential costing could be 
over £1,000.
Im not persuaded that shows the cost of the work at Mr Hs home would likely be 
over £1,000. But even if it was, the policy says, the most we will pay is £1,000. That 
doesnt mean a claim for, say, £1,001 can be declined outright  it means D&G would 
pay £1,000 toward that claim.
D&G has often said Mr H should contact his home insurer to deal with the claim. Hes 
welcome to do that if he wishes  but hes not obliged to. D&G should focus on its 
own policy and whether that covers Mr Hs claim.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Mr Hs claim is covered by the policy, up to the 
£1,000 claim limit.
D&G has accepted Mr H had to spend more time on the phone than he should have 
done and paid him £51 compensation as a result. Im not satisfied this goes far 
enough to compensate him for the wasted time and avoidable inconvenience hes 
been put to. I consider D&G should pay an additional £150 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H said he had nothing further to add to my provisional decision.
D&G didnt respond to it.
As neither party has provided further information or challenged any aspects of my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied it remains a fair and reasonable outcome and I wont 
comment any further.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint
I require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to:
Accept the claim, up to the claim limit.
Pay an additional £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman