DRN-3357189
The complaint
Mr C complains that Octopus Investments Limited (Octopus) provided misleading 
information about an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) and failed to meet the 
investment principles they had set.
What happened
In October 2015, Mr C invested £75,000 into an EIS, OEIS-20, provided by Octopus. It is 
common ground that Mr Cs independent financial adviser (IFA) recommended this 
investment with the primary objective to secure tax mitigation.
It is not disputed that the EIS performed poorly with Mr C becoming aware of large falls in 
the portfolio value around mid-2020. Mr C complains that Octopus failed to provide clear, fair 
and not misleading information about the EIS, in particular, it was misleading to emphasise 
an objective of capital preservation and high-risk to capital was not adequately highlighted. 
Mr C also complains that Octopus failed to invest in line with the mandate and exposed his 
capital to volatility during changes to the energy market, contrary to the objective of capital 
preservation. Mr W raises a series of other concerns including the failure to disclose risks 
concerning borrowing, failure to disclose fees and conflicts of interest. Mr C seeks 
compensation for the losses he has sustained and for the distress this matter has caused 
him.
Octopus accept that the EIS underperformed but maintain that risk warnings were clearly set 
out in the product brochures and other documents. Further, Mr C ought reasonably to have 
been aware that EISs are high risk given the eligibility for significant tax relief. Octopus 
denied any mismanagement and said that poor performance was due to a number of factors 
outside their control, such as changes to legislation which reduced or removed some key 
revenue streams and falls in energy prices below industry expert forecasts. These changes 
took place post-investment. As Octopus provided a discretionary managed investment 
service, it was for them to select and manage investments which they believed met the 
objectives, without reference to the investors. Octopus said they looked to target capital 
preservation, whilst achieving EIS qualification for tax relief, but ultimately this wasnt 
guaranteed and the products were higher risk.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He considered the Information Memorandum (IM) 
and related documents for the EIS to ascertain the investment objectives and criteria. Our 
investigator concluded that the funds were invested in companies in line with the energy 
sectors set out in the IM, namely six reserve power and two solar companies. He highlighted 
that Octopus had discretionary management of the portfolio, so it was for them to make 
legitimate commercial decisions and he was satisfied that appropriate due diligence had 
been undertaken before investment commenced.  Further, when changes to the energy 
market were announced, our investigator was persuaded that Octopus did consider the 
information at the time and amended its financial models before taking the decision to 
proceed. He didnt think it was fair and reasonable to make an analysis of that decision with 
the benefit of hindsight. Our investigator thought that the high risks of investing in the EIS 
were clear from the risk warnings within the IM, which were given sufficient prominence. Our 
investigator also thought that Octopus had explained its fees structure and the possibility of 
other fees being received. Also, Octopus had explained that the investee companies may 
borrow from other funds managed by Octopus and their conflict of interest policy was set 
out.
Overall, it was unfortunate that the investment had performed poorly and Mr Cs 
disappointment was acknowledged, but our investigator was not persuaded that Octopus 
had done anything wrong.
Mr C disagreed with the view, he relied upon his original submissions and maintained that 
Octopus grossly misrepresented the nature of the investment risk. Further, Octopus 
disclosure of additional fees was almost hidden. Mr C maintained that Octopus actions were 
illogical and inconsistent with the interests of EIS investors, as they continued to invest in 
reserve power when the energy market was changing. Mr C believed that Octopus continued 
to invest in solar power out of momentum with lack of management oversight. He felt 
Octopus had to use its own funds to support debt because the projects were non-viable. Mr 
C also raised general concern about our services ability to enforce rules to protect 
consumers.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that each party has had fair opportunity to provide the information upon which 
they seek to rely. I have made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words, by 
weighing up what is more likely than not to have happened.
I think its helpful at the outset to explain our role. Our service has no regulatory or 
disciplinary powers, which means we cant tell a business how to operate and cannot impose 
any fine or penalty. We provide an independent, informal dispute resolution service, where 
each case is considered on its own facts.  
As Mr C received advice from an IFA, I will not be considering whether the recommendation 
to invest in the EIS was suitable for Mr C; responsibility for any such advice (which includes 
recommendations around risk exposure) lies with the IFA not Octopus. Octopus were 
responsible for providing information to Mr C so that he could make an informed decision 
about whether to invest in the EIS and it was for Octopus to invest in line with the mandate. It is clear that Mr C is extremely disappointed with the performance of the EIS and I 
appreciate that he feels very strongly about this complaint. I would like to reassure Mr C that 
I have read all the information provided. Ive focused this decision on what I consider to be 
the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. No discourtesy is intended if I do 
not refer to every point raised. The crux of this complaint is whether Octopus provided clear, 
fair and not misleading information about the EIS and whether the funds were invested in 
line with the mandate. The focus of this decision is at the time the information was presented 
to Mr C and at the time the funds were invested. It is not fair and reasonable to make an 
assessment with the benefit of hindsight. 
Investment objective
It is common ground that the objective for this EIS was to target capital preservation through 
investment in the energy sector and to provide multiple tax reliefs, in other words at the end 
of the period of investment, Octopus goal was to have provided investors with the benefit of 
tax relief (including 30% income tax relief and capital gains tax deferral) and to return the 
capital sum invested. Mr C makes no complaint about the tax benefits and it appears that the 
objective of tax efficiency was met.
It is important to highlight that there is a distinction between an investment objective or 
strategy and the inherent risks with a particular investment. So, for example, an investment 
might target growth but be lower risk. The issue for me to determine is whether clear, fair 
and misleading information was provided about the product. I have considered the 
information provided by Octopus in the IM and Details of underlying investments document. 
I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that Mr C read the IM before investing, given that 
in the EIS application form he confirmed he had read and understood the IM of October 
2015 and the risks factors explained within it.
Risks
EISs are complex, illiquid, specialised and speculative investments, where there is a real risk 
of losing the original, capital investment. In the introduction to the 2015 brochure, Octopus 
highlighted that it was important for the investor to read and understand the risks with the 
product and at the beginning of the risk section, stated that this EIS was a high-risk 
investment where capital remained at risk. Further investment would be in unquoted 
companies which have a higher failure rate than investing in shares of companies listed on 
the main list of the London Stock Exchange.
In the introduction Welcome to Octopus page, the distinction between investment objective 
and risk was set out:
. . .we want to make sure youre aware of the risks involved with investing in smaller 
companies. An EIS isnt for everyone and should be viewed as a high-risk investment  even 
though we target capital preservation, your capital is placed at risk. 
In the risk section, Octopus explained that capital was at risk and investment return was not 
guaranteed. So, whilst Octopus explained that the aim was to invest so as to maintain the 
capital sum, Im satisfied that they made it clear this outcome was not guaranteed. 
Octopus directed investors to the risk warning section page numbers that were clearly 
highlighted in the IM. When considering the information objectively, Im persuaded that the 
risks were clearly set out and that Mr C knew or ought to have known from the outset that 
the risks with this investment was higher to achieve the objectives of capital preservation 
and tax relief.In IM the risk section again highlighted the high-risk profile of the product, that there was no 
guarantee the objective would be met and past performance was not a reliable guide to 
future performance, further that the investment was illiquid with the earliest exit point would 
likely be at least four years. 
Risks specific to the energy sector were also set out. Octopus highlighted that revenue 
streams were dependent on the legislation on which they were built and with reserve power 
the revenue stream depended upon the market prices set by the National Grid for supplying 
energy during peak periods and for the plant to meet its commitment to meet agreed 
amounts of energy over the period of the contract. Any changes to legislation or generating 
performance may affect the returns. Octopus also highlighted that there could be increased 
risk due to the limited diversification within the EIS, as investment would likely be in one or a 
small number of companies within one sector only. The risk section further highlighted 
conflicts of interest, amongst other things, that the companies Octopus EIS invested in may 
also receive funding from other sources managed by Octopus Investments, that the partner 
company may hold shareholding in partner companies, there may be joint ventures and 
remuneration and performance fees might be paid from companies in which Octopus EIS 
invests.
In my view Octopus provided clear, fair and not misleading information about the risks 
addressing the fact that the overall risk profile was high, there was a risk that legislation 
could change or that energy prices could fluctuate, the IM explained that investee companies 
were borrowing and in my view this would not be unusual for new and developing 
companies. It was for Mr Cs IFA to assess whether the level of risk was suitable for Mr Cs 
needs. To be clear, the fact that a combination of the highlighted risks materialised was 
extremely unfortunate, but it does not follow that the information provided about risks was 
misleading.
Investing in line with the mandate
Mr C says he placed great reliance on the concept of capital preservation and raises 
concern about the changes within the energy industry and the decisions made by Octopus in 
2016/2017.
First, its important to qualify that capital preservation was held out as a target and not a 
guarantee. Further, it does not follow that a target of capital preservation lowered the risk of 
this particular investment, as Ive set out above, Octopus expressly dealt with this within the 
IM.
Its fair to say that Octopus spoke about relatively predictable revenue and gave information 
about the anticipated revenue streams for the sectors they intended to invest in but that had 
to be balanced against the clear risk warnings set out above. Ive also seen Octopus sought 
industry expert advice about likely returns from the resources and considered these 
forecasts before sharing information with potential investors. Theres nothing to show that it 
was unreasonable to rely on this information at the time it was presented to Octopus. I dont 
consider that it was misleading as at 2015 to refer to relatively predictable revenue streams 
at that time. Octopus had warned that returns could change if legislation changed or 
generating performance changed. 
Octopus have been clear that the price and legislation changes took place after information 
was provided to Mr C and after the point of investment into the underlying companies in 
November 2015. Im not persuaded that Octopus failed to consider the loss of long-term 
capacity markets payment contracts (CM).On balance, I consider that Octopus undertook appropriate due diligence obtaining, amongst 
other things, third party technical expert, energy expert and legal expert reports which were 
then considered through a multi-stage process culminating in consideration by an investment 
committee. When proposals were outlined in March 2016 that EIS sites should not be 
allowed to participate in the capacity market payments (CM), they halted worked on new 
reserve power construction projects. By May 2016 the relevant government department 
confirmed that EIS invested sites would be able to access the CM, but would have to pay 
back the benefit received from the EIS investment, the income tax benefit. Projections were 
adjusted to factor this in and as the projects remained financially viable work continued. 
When further announcements in October 2016 said that only 1-year CM contracts could be 
secured, without the need to repay the tax benefit, Octopus undertook further assessments 
and again consulted with industry forecasting experts before concluding that access to the 1 
year contracts could still provide levels of CM revenue to meet the objective of capital 
preservation. Also, its fair to say that CM payments were not the only sources of available 
revenue.
On balance, I am persuaded that Octopus did undertake ongoing analysis of the energy 
sector changes. Theyve explained that revised financial forecasts, using projections from 
third party specialists, showed a profit on the base investment for both reserve power and 
Italian solar power, above the investment mandate of simply preserving the capital 
investment. 
I appreciate it is Mr Cs view that Octopus should not have continued to invest and he feels 
the decisions made were negligent and now considers the projects were non-viable. But as 
Octopus was the discretionary manager it was for them to make legitimate commercial 
decisions on behalf of investors on the basis of the information available at the time. To be 
clear, it isnt within the remit of this service to undertake an in depth analysis as to whether 
better decisions could now have been made, as our investigator has explained, it isnt fair 
and reasonable to consider this matter with the benefit of hindsight. 
Overall, I think its more likely than not that the objective of capital preservation was being 
pursued by Octopus and the funds continued to be invested in the energy sector areas set 
out in the IM. Its common ground that at the point of investment in November 2015, the 
investee companies were within the energy sector, a sector highlighted as the proposed 
industry for investment. The Details of underlying investments brochure for the OEIS-20 
explained that investment would continue in energy with a focus mainly on companies 
providing reserve power or that generate renewable energy in other countries. And its 
relevant that Octopus had highlighted the risk of lack of diversification within the EIS given 
that investment fell within one industry sector. Again, the suitability of this risk factor was a 
matter for Mr Cs adviser to consider when making the recommendation to invest.
As to concerns about international solar power, I havent seen anything to show that it was 
unreasonable for Octopus to rely upon industry expert forecasts at the time of providing 
information about the investment in 2015. Funds were being invested at the development 
stage and Im persuaded that Octopus undertook due diligence before proceeding. Whilst I 
note Mr Cs view that grid connection should have already been in place, theres nothing to 
suggest that Octopus said this was the case in the IM, so I cant fairly say he was misled and 
Ive noted Octopus had secured the rights to connect to the grid before proceeding. Further, 
the IM warned that international solar investments were dependent on energy prices in the 
countries in which they operated. That energy prices dropped in Italy after investment was 
therefore a risk highlighted within the IMs and was a matter outside Octopus control.Its also relevant that maintaining the investment after funds were invested in November 
2015 meant the requirements for EIS qualification and related tax reliefs remained available. 
It was explained in the IM that the EIS was illiquid and funds would be tied into the investee 
companies for at least three years to secure the benefit of tax relief, but it would likely be at 
least four years before investors could exit. I consider it is more likely than not that Mr C was 
aware that once funds were invested, he would not have access to his capital and funds had 
to remain invested for three years to secure the tax relief he sought.
So, on balance, Im not persuaded that Octopus failed to invest in companies in line with the 
above mandates, EIS qualification providing tax reliefs and capital preservation were 
targeted within the industry sector set out in the IM. That multiple risks materialised causing 
performance to drop does not meant Octopus failed to invest in line with the mandate or that 
Octopus was negligent.
It is unfortunate that other changes also later came into play, which Octopus have explained 
to Mr C, for example, falling energy prices, further legislation changes that removed TRIAD 
benefits in November 2018 and changes to STOR in 2020 and reduction in demand for 
reserve power. But as Ive said, these risks were highlighted and I think Octopus have been 
reasonable in explaining how the collective impact caused underperformance. 
Borrowing
Mr C maintains that the taking of loans by investee companies was risk factor and investors 
were not consulted about this. However, the IM explained in the risk section that investee 
companies might borrow from sources that Octopus had a financial interest in, the 
companies in which Octopus EIS invests may also receive funding from other sources 
managed by Octopus Investments. The Octopus parent company, Octopus Capital Limited, 
may hold  shareholding in other partner companies, namely Development partners . . 
Further in the conflict of interest section, Octopus expressly stated, The EIS companies may 
receive additional equity investment from a source separate from Octopus EIS. They may 
also borrow money from other sources that Octopus may manage or have a financial interest 
in. So, I dont agree that the possibility of investee companies borrowing wasnt highlighted 
and there was no requirement for Octopus to consult with investors about the detail of any 
arrangements, given that the EIS was a discretionary managed service. 
Fees
Mr C has also raised concerns about Octopus failure to disclose fees. Initial charges and 
ongoing fees were set out in the IM, which also included worked examples. However, the 
risk sections also explained that partner companies may be remunerated by and paid by 
performance fees from investee companies. In the conflicts of interest section, Octopus also 
highlighted that it may earn other revenue from operational involvement with the investee 
companies, which may directly or indirectly affect the returns realised from the EIS. So, I 
think Octopus did explain that other fees may be charged, which could impact the return. Im 
not persuaded that Octopus did anything wrong in the information they presented in 2015 
(this being before the more detailed requirements introduced in 2018 under MidFID II) and it 
was open to Mr C and/or his adviser to seek further clarification before investing. Again, this 
risk factor was something for the IFA to consider when advising Mr C about the suitability of 
the product.Conflicts of interest
Mr C has raised concern about conflicts of interest, which he suggests were not highlighted. 
But in the risk section in the IM, which Mr C purportedly read, conflicts of interest were 
expressly addressed as a risk and Octopus went on to present a two-page section on 
potential conflicts of interest, setting out their conflicts process. On balance, Im persuaded 
that Octopus did provide clear information about conflicts of interest, which included the 
potential impact of fees. Theres nothing to show that Octopus didnt follow its conflict 
process.
Conclusion
I have looked carefully at everything that has been said and I understand why Mr C feels so 
strongly about what has happened to his investment. But I cant fairly say on the basis of the 
information provided that Octopus failed to provide sufficiently clear, fair and not misleading 
information to Mr C before he decided to invest or that they have failed to invest in line with 
the mandate given. I realise this will be a very disappointing decision for Mr C, but I wont be 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I am not upholding the complaint against 
Octopus Investments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman