DRN-4136376
The complaint
Miss S complains that West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance (Zenith) unfairly 
declined her pet insurance claim.
What happened
In March 2022 Miss S took out pet insurance with Zenith for her dog Ill refer to as G.     
Miss S spoke to her vet in mid-April 2022 as G had shown signs of an intermittent limp, she 
made an appointment with her vet but later cancelled this when G appeared to get better.  
At the end of April 2022 when Miss S had an appointment with her vet about another issue 
she mentioned that G now and again hopped on her right rear leg. Miss S was told to 
book an appointment should the leg not improve. 
In early August 2022 whilst walking her dog, G stood on something which made her lame 
on her front leg, whilst at the vets Miss S also said G had been showing signs of lameness 
in the right hind leg for around a couple of months. Miss S vet referred her to an  
orthopaedic team as Gs right stifle was showing signs of crepitus and patella luxation.
This diagnosis was confirmed, and surgery was performed. Miss S made a claim against her 
pet insurance. But Zenith declined the claim as G had shown symptoms of the condition 
within 14 days of the policys inception. Miss S complained as she said it wasnt the same 
leg Zenith had referred to in declining her claim.
Zenith said that G had shown signs of an ongoing limp for a few weeks prior to the vets 
visit in mid-April 2022. As such they said theyd fairly declined Miss S claim under the 
exclusion term  any illness arising prior to or within the first 14 days of the inception date of 
the insurance. 
Miss S wasnt happy with Zeniths response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator was satisfied that Gs condition had started prior to the policys inception, 
and so Zenith had acted fairly and reasonably in declining Miss S claim.
Miss S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. I know Miss S will be disappointed but in 
making my decision I have to decide on balance what most likely happened here. And 
whether Zenith acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim, and I think they did. Ill 
explain why.
The policy excludes Any illness arising prior to or within the first 14 days of the inception
date of the insurance. Its very common for pet policies to exclude cover for an illness which
starts soon after the policy began, usually within the first 14 days.
The policy goes on to define illness as:
Changes in your pets state of health that are not caused by an accident or which may be 
resulting from gradual or biological cause.
The information was also shown in the Insurance Product Information Document, which 
is a two-page summary of key features of the policy. So, Im satisfied Zenith did provide 
clear information that there was no cover for illness within the first 14 days of the policy. 
Ive considered Gs medical history. I can see on 13 April 2022 it says:
History - O called as G has had an intermittent limp the past few weeks, non
painful, can jump up and down off beds and sofa's.
And the medical records also show that on 30 April 2022:
..O' also mentioned now and again seems to hop on right hind.
I know Miss S said it wasnt the same leg that she asked her vet about on 13 April 2022. But 
the description of the illness/condition on 13 April 2022 was intermittent limping and on 30 
April 2022 was  now and again seems to hop on right hind.  Im persuaded that the 
similarity in the description about the way the lameness/limp presented itself shows this is 
most likely related to the same illness/condition. And I havent seen any evidence that would 
contradict this.
Miss S has referred to G having had front leg lameness, but I can only see reference made 
to this in Gs medical history in August 2022 when G stepped on something whilst out 
walking. I havent seen any reference to a similar condition prior to this event. And at the 
same visit to her vet Miss S said G had lameness in the right hind leg which had been 
ongoing for around two months. I can see Miss S vet gave a diagnosis of  Suspected 
patella luxation needing surgical correction RH. 
And its this illness/condition in August 2022 that was presented to the orthopaedic team:
On 10/08/2022 G presented with a bilateral hindlimb lameness which was more 
pronounced on the right hindlimb. She has bilateral grade 3 MLPs (JF). G presented with 
roughly a 2 month history of progressively worsening lameness which appears most 
pronounced in the RHL. Initially the owner noticed a mild limp, and she reported seeing G 
kicking out her RHL when walking more recently. There had been no known injury.
While the orthopaedic team refer to a two month history which would mean it started around 
June 2022, this was a rough estimation based on Miss S account. And as outlined above I 
think there were signs of this illness/condition being referred to in Gs medical history 
having been seen within 14 days of the policys inception. 
Im satisfied that it was this illness/condition that Miss S asked her vet about on 13 April 
2022 and which had first been seen several weeks prior to this date.
As Miss Ss policy was incepted 22 March 2022, the 14 day period would have covered up to 
04 April 2022, as the illness/condition presented itself a few weeks before 13 April 2022, I 
think this would have been within the 14 day period. So, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Zenith to apply the exclusion -  Any illness arising prior to or within the first 
14 days of the inception date of the insurance - when they declined Miss S claim.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman