DRN-4331233
The complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Capital One was irresponsible 
when it offered him a credit card and later increased his credit limit.
Mr M brought his complaint to us via a representative but I will refer to him throughout 
for simplicity. 
What happened
Capital One opened a credit card account for Mr M in February 2020 in with a credit limit 
of £750. This type of credit was an open-ended or running account facility. Capital One 
subsequently increased Mr Ms credit limit to £1,000 in April 2021.
Mr M complained to Capital One in early 2023 that the credit was unaffordable for him 
and led to him taking on more debt. 
Capital One didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that it used a variety of information to 
check that credit would be affordable for him including information hed provided and 
information from the credit reference agencies. Its checks showed that the credit would 
be appropriate and affordable for him.  
Mr M referred his complaint to us. Our investigator assessed the complaint but didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. They found that Capital One wasnt irresponsible to have 
opened the account for Mr M or later increased his limit. 
Mr M didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Capital One, need to abide 
by. Capital One will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on 
our website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them.
Before entering into a credit agreement, Capital One needed to check that Mr M could afford 
to repay the credit out of his usual means, within a reasonable period of time, without having 
to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit, for 
example the amount offered, and to Mr Ms particular circumstances.
With this in mind, my considerations are did Capital One complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when it first opened the account for Mr M and later when it increased 
his credit limit to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the credit offered within a 
reasonable period of time? If it didnt do this, what would reasonable and proportionate 
checks have shown and, ultimately, did Capital One make fair lending decisions? 
Mr M told Capital One his salary was £20,000 (approximately £1,460 net a month) when he 
applied for the account. Capital One said that it looked at what Mr M said about his income 
and income estimates provided by the credit reference agencies and relied on the minimum 
value. Mr M said in his application form that his housing costs were £26 a month and 
Capital One used national statistical datasets to estimate his monthly living costs and 
calculated a total expenses figure of £426. This left Mr M with over £1,000 to meet any other 
costs and debt repayments, which Capital One recorded as a total of £9,835. It concluded 
that Mr M would be able to repay the credit along with his other usual commitments and debt 
repayments. 
While I appreciate that Capital One may have sense-checked Mr Ms income it doesnt seem 
to me that it actually verified the figure Mr M had provided. Mr M provided his bank 
statements to us and I can see from these that his income was slightly less than the figure 
Capital One relied on at about £1,375 on average in the months before the agreement 
began. So even if Capital One had gone further in its income checks I think its likely it would 
have come to the same conclusion about the affordability of the credit for Mr M and so I cant 
say it was wrong to have proceeded with the information it had at the time. 
When Capital One offered Mr M an increase on his credit limit from £750 to £1,000 it noted 
his existing debts as £6,900 and so it doesnt seem to me that his overall debt situation had 
changed for the worse. Ive reviewed Mr Ms Capital One account statement and can see 
that prior to the limit increase he sometimes made the minimum monthly payment, 
sometimes more and cleared his full account balance in September 2020. I dont think 
Mr Ms use of his account indicated that he might have been having financial difficulties. I 
understand that Mr Ms income remained around the same level and so, for the same 
reasons as before, I cant say that Capital One was irresponsible to have increased Mr Ms 
available credit at this time. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr M but having reviewed everything Ive 
concluded that Capital One wasnt irresponsible to open the account for him or to increase 
his limit later on and so Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Capital One 
(Europe) plc trading as Capital One and dont require it to pay him compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman