DRN-1873958
The complaint
F, a limited company, complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to protect it
from loss caused by one of its former employees. F also complains NatWest failed to provide
information to help it investigate how the loss occurred. It asks NatWest to pay
compensation for its losses and provide the information it wants.
What happened
Mr M is the director of F and brings this complaint on Fs behalf. The background to this
complaint is well known to both parties, so its unnecessary to detail every event here. But in
summary, Mr M says:
- Mr M engaged a family member, Miss O, to help him with Fs finances. Miss O
helped arrange a business account to be opened in Fs name.
Miss O was an employee of NatWest with significant experience in business banking.
Mr M trusted her. Miss O was later made redundant by NatWest and she became a
formal employee of F.
- Several years later, F was to agree a high value contract, but large losses were
discovered after a review of Fs accounts. F was forced to stop trading and entered
into administration.
- Mr M says Miss O embezzled Fs funds by opening and closing accounts and
transferring funds out, including through Mr Ms personal account.
Mr M believes NatWest carries some responsibility for Fs losses. He thinks Miss O
likely used her seniority and employee access to commit fraud.
- Mr M says NatWest didnt assist F appropriately. He says NatWest didnt provide the
information he needed to investigate what happened - and it didnt deal with a subject
access request as it should have.
- Mr M says Miss O is subject to an active police investigation.
An investigator considered Fs complaint and decided not to uphold it. They found:
- Mr M made a subject access on Fs behalf to NatWest. But F isnt a natural person
and cant make subject access requests. So, we couldnt uphold the complaint
because NatWest hadnt responded as Mr M wouldve liked.
- Miss O was an authorised signatory for F at the time one of the accounts Mr M says
he didnt know about was closed. So, Miss O had permission to close the account
and NatWest werent a fault for acting on her request.
 
- Miss O wasnt an authorised signatory when another disputed account was set up in
2012. But the account was set up using online banking, and an authorised signatory
wouldve needed to do this. The account wouldve been visible alongside Fs other
accounts.
- Miss O acted for F long before she became a signatory or its employee. She was
engaged to administer the accounts. So, she was likely given online account access
to perform her role, which meant she could open and close accounts in Fs name
online.
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2009 the payments were authorised, and
NatWest isnt liable for them. Authorisation doesnt mean F or Mr M knew about each
transfer and payment, which from what Mr M has said, its clear he didnt.
- Miss O wouldve needed security details for Mr Ms personal account in order to
make transfers out of the account. Its probable she was given this information
considering the duration transfers were made over and many transactions werent
disputed. So, the disputed payments out of Mr Ms personal account were
authorised.
- NatWest is not liable for Fs losses for under the PSRs. Instead this is a case of
allegations of embezzlement, which is a matter for the police to investigate and
courts to decide.
Mr M rejected the outcome and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the
complaint has been given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O was NatWests employee for much of the time Fs losses occurred. But she was
engaged to act on the Fs behalf due to her banking experience and the trust Mr M had in
her. So, she was primarily acting for F and not for NatWest.
Mr M asks whether Miss O shouldve acted for F when she worked at the branch holding Fs
accounts. I understand his concern, but to my knowledge its not uncommon for bank
employees to have a private connection with customers. That connection was disclosed, so,
I havent found NatWest at fault for agreeing to F being its customer.
Miss O may have caused F loss in the way Mr M describes. Mr M says she is under
investigation by the police. But even if Miss O used her position as a NatWest employee to
defraud F, its not evident NatWest are liable for Fs losses.
The Supreme Court judgment in WM Morrison Supermarkets plc (Appellant) v Various
Claimants (Respondents) [2020] UKSC 12 demonstrates a firm is not always responsible for
the actions of a rogue employee. But if NatWest does carry some responsibility under the
tort of vicarious liability, this is best decided by a court of law, especially as the matter of
Miss Os actions is still under investigation.
Mr M says Miss O had no authority to open further accounts in the companys name. He was
unaware certain accounts existed or had been closed. However, due to limited information, I 
cannot determine who applied for the accounts and whether they were opened by anauthorised signatory or not.
NatWest said the accounts in question were opened online. So, whoever opened them used
one of Fs signatories online banking access. The accounts wouldve been visible to any of
Fs signatories or other employees with access to Fs online banking.
Im satisfied Miss O had access to Fs online banking with Mr Ms, and therefore Fs
permission. Emails from Fs finance manager in 2014 show Miss O was asked about
transfers and one of the accounts Mr M was unaware of  a company savings account.
Miss O also submitted spread sheets to an accountant. So, its evident she was relied on.
Miss O had wide authority to act for F long before she became a signatory or company
employee. And with this in mind, Im not persuaded F wouldnt have suffered losses even if
NatWest made an error in allowing accounts to be opened. Given the trust Mr M placed in
Miss O, I cant fairly conclude he wouldnt have agreed to those accounts being opened if
Miss O advised they should be.
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSRs), Im satisfied the disputed transfers
and payments were authorised. Miss O was given authority to act for F with access to make
transfers and payments, which gave her the means to open and close accounts. Its likely
she was also allowed to access Mr Ms personal account given the long period over which
the transactions took place. Although Mr M may not have agreed to specific payments,
under the regulations, NatWest isnt liable for the losses those payments represent.
NatWest didnt provide the information Mr M wanted when he made a subject access on Fs
behalf. But a subject access request applies to natural persons and not limited companies.
NatWest isnt at fault for not providing information related to other persons personal
information due to data protection law.
Mr M wants information about Miss Os actions in relation to Fs accounts when she was
NatWests employee. But our services role is to consider whether NatWest did something
wrong in relation to F, and if it did, what redress is appropriate. It isnt to provide information
Mr M has so far been unable to get due to data protection law. I understand Mr Ms
frustration and how important this matter is to him, considering the impact its had on F and
him personally. He has my sympathy in this regard.
On balance, after considering all the information before me, I am not upholding this
Complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman