DRN-2825072
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging
her a fee for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claims.
What happened
In July 2019, Miss B asked FTR to check whether shed been mis-sold PPI with any of her
lenders. Miss B said shed only made an enquiry and hadnt signed any letter of authority 
(LoA). She said she hadnt given FTR any clear instructions to act on her behalf in pursuing 
mis-sold PPI claims.
Miss B said she hadnt had any contact from either her lender Ill call H or FTR about mis-
sold PPI. She said it wasnt until she saw a payment from H had credited her bank account. 
And she received an invoice from FTR for their success fee that she found out a claim had 
been made. She complained to FTR.
FTR said Miss B had signed their LoAs in July 2019, and theyd submitted these to Miss Bs 
lenders. One of her lenders, H asked for a PPI questionnaire to be completed. And also for 
an LoA with a wet signature. FTR said Miss B had completed and returned both the PPI 
questionnaire and LoA to them. And theyd passed these on to H. In July 2020 H told 
them Miss Bs claim was successful. As Miss B hadnt cancelled her agreement with FTR 
theyd asked her to pay their success fee.
Miss B said she hadnt completed either document. She also said she wasnt at home when 
these documents were sent to her home address because of a family bereavement. Miss B 
said the signature on the forms wasnt hers. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said, on balance, Miss B had authorised FTR to act on her behalf. And that 
they were acting fairly and reasonably in asking for their success fee.
Miss B didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint , Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my
decision on what I think most likely happened.
FTR feel strongly that Miss B had agreed to use their services and that it was because of 
their actions her claim with H was successful. I can also understand Miss Bs frustration as 
she doesnt think shed authorised FTR to act on her behalf. Miss B is adamant the signature 
on the LoAs isnt hers. But its not our role to validate a signature, we arent handwriting 
experts, forgery would be for a criminal court to consider. 
In making my decision I need to determine whether I think its more likely than not Miss B 
had authorised FTR to act on her behalf. If I consider she has, whether FTR  knew she no 
longer wanted them to work for her. And to see whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably 
in their actions with her.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for Miss Bs lenders,
including H in July 2019. The personal details in this application correlate with the personal 
details Miss B has given this service. And she doesnt dispute she completed the on line 
application but that she understood it was only an enquiry about mis-sold PPI.
So, Ive looked at the web journey process. FTR has shown the screens Miss B would have
gone through. The screen shows a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
*Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24%
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims as per the Terms of Engagement.
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to the
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens would have asked for information from Miss B about her personal details 
and lenders. FTR has shown an audit trail with this information.
On completing the application, FTR has said Miss B would have needed to agree their terms 
and conditions and this would generate a LoA populated with this information. Theyve said 
this could only be submitted with a signature. There wasnt a requirement to add a date. 
Miss B isnt disputing, she completed an enquiry with FTR. I can see from FTRs records that 
the signature was added on the site at the time the enquiry was made.
As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. 
FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
FTRs records show that they were notified that PPI had been found for Miss Bs claims with
H in February 2020. And I can see that Miss B was sent notification of this, to the mobile 
telephone number shes given to us, the same month. The notification includes Miss Bs FTR 
reference number and said Your PPI check results are in. Its great news. You have paid 
PPI. So, from this point FTR would have been providing their claims service.
PPI being found didnt mean Miss Bs claim was successful as it needed to be considered by 
H whether the PPI had been mis-sold to her. The same notification refers Miss B to a link 
to complete a PPI questionnaire.
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies (CMC)amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims.
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. So,
the PPI questionnaire wasnt always needed for a PPI claim to be considered. But the
information could be used to support and strengthen the claim that the PPI policy
was mis-sold. 
The day after FTR sent the notification to Miss Bs mobile phone, they also sent out a letter 
to Miss Bs home address, asking her to sign LoAs for H as a wet rather than a digital 
signature was needed. I know Miss B said she wasnt at her home address but FTRs 
records show the LoAs were completed and signed 5 March 2020.
The letter advised theyd also sent the link to the PPI questionnaire by email. And said that 
Miss Bs PPI claim couldnt progress without both steps being taken. I can see from FTRs 
records, the email was sent to the same email address Miss B has given to us, on 27 
February 2020, the same day they sent notification to Miss Bs mobile phone. 
The PPI questionnaire asks several questions about circumstances at the time the PPI 
policy was taken out. This includes the purpose of the loan, employment and sick pay 
details. And why the policy holder thought the policy had been mis-sold to them. I can see 
FTRs records show the PPI questionnaire was completed with these details. FTR sent the 
completed PPI questionnaire to H in March 2020. As H had identified two accounts Miss 
B had with PPI, FTR also sent the completed PPI questionnaire to H in April 2020.
In July 2020, H told FTR that Miss Bs claim(s) had been successful and the amount of 
compensation they would pay. I think this shows H recognised FTR as acting on behalf of 
Miss B for her mis-sold PPI claims. Taking all the above into account Im satisfied Miss B 
had instructed FTR to act on her behalf.
I will now look to see whether Miss B asked FTR to stop working for her.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter 
of Authority (Cooling -off period) at no cost to You.
The terms and conditions also explain how the agreement can be cancelled after the 14-day 
cooling off period. And goes on to give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done, 
telephone, email or in writing. 
I consider until PPI is found Miss Bs agreement would have been for a free PPI check. So, I 
consider the 14 day cooling off period starts form the date Miss B would have been notified 
that PPI had been found and when FTRs claims service started. This was 27 February 
2020, so Miss B would have had up to 13 March 2020 to cancel the agreement without cost. 
But I havent seen any evidence that Miss B asked FTR to cancel her agreement either 
within or after the 14-day cooling off period. And despite still getting updates I havent seen 
any evidence that Miss B asked FTR to stop or question them as to why they were still 
contacting her. And by not telling FTR she didnt want them to act on her behalf before the 
end of the 14-day cooling off period, theyd continued to provide their claims service.
Miss B has said the agreement should have been cancelled under Section 8.4 as this says:
In some cases FTR may decide that they are unable to continue to act for you if 
FTR cannot obtain clear instructions from you..But this section allows for FTR to cancel the agreement if they dont have clear instructions. I 
know Miss B says she hadnt given them clear instructions, but FTR continued to act on her 
behalf as theyd completed LoAs and PPI questionnaires which they took as Miss Bs 
authority to act. 
The agreement Miss B had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did.
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Miss Bs claim was
successful.
I know Miss B will be disappointed with my decision. But I think its more likely than not that  
shed authorised FTR to act on her behalf. And she hadnt cancelled that agreement before 
her claim was successful. So, I dont think FTR has acted unfairly or unreasonably in asking 
her to pay their success fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman