DRN-3277239
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a claim he made on his QIC Europe Ltd legal expenses insurance 
policy, which QIC declined.
All references to QIC include their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr C made a claim on his QIC legal expenses insurance policy for advice and help with a 
dispute with the occupier of the neighbouring property. In summary, he was unhappy about 
the purpose for which the property was being used and felt it was in breach of that propertys 
covenants. He also had several other areas of complaint including but not limited to trespass 
to his property, noise nuisance, damage to his fencing, a boundary dispute and parking 
problems obstructing access out of his property.
QIC instructed a firm of solicitors to consider Mr Cs claims. That firm concluded the claims 
werent covered because they didnt have over 51% prospects of success and the costs of 
pursuing them werent proportionate to the value of the claims. Both of these were 
requirements of the policy so QIC said they couldnt assist Mr C any further. Mr C is 
unhappy. He doesnt feel his claims were properly considered nor that the points he raised 
with QIC were adequately addressed. He also says QIC didnt give him any advice which 
was the point of the policy and that he relied on cover being provided when he sent out a 
letter before action.
Our investigator considered Mr Cs complaint. He concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
that Mr Cs complaint was against the solicitors who gave the advice and that QIC was 
entitled to rely on it. Mr C doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why below. 
When reaching my conclusions I can assure Mr C Ive listened to the call recordings he 
wanted me to consider as well as all the points hes made in relation to this complaint and 
the information hes provided to this Service.
The starting point is the policy terms. Its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses 
insurance policies that any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of succeeding. Mr Cs 
policy is no exception. That means his claims needed to have over 51% prospects of 
succeeding in order for QIC to cover them. The policy also excluded claims that were 
disproportionate to pursue.
We dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer 
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed or that the amount they 
might recover would be less than the cost of the action itself. We wouldnt expect a legal 
expenses insurer to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the 
insurer has acted fairly. So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we 
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong 
or based on factual mistakes. QIC did this. The solicitors advice was that Mr Cs claims 
didnt have reasonable prospects of being successful and were disproportionate to pursue. 
Im satisfied that the solicitor was experienced in the area of law Mr C was asking for help 
with. I note that Mr C didnt agree with the initial advice he was given and provided further 
evidence to help his case. QIC referred this back to the solicitor who maintained the same 
view. Following a complaint by Mr C, the advice was then reviewed by the Managing Partner 
of the same firm of solicitors. He also felt the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success and was disproportionate to pursue.
Overall, I know Mr C doesnt agree with the advice given to him. Hes questioned how the 
solicitors reached the conclusions they did based on the facts of his dispute. He hasnt 
however obtained an opinion from an alternative suitably qualified lawyer setting out that his 
claims do have over 51% prospects of success and that theyre proportionate to pursue. So, 
whilst I know he feels strongly that the solicitors havent understood his complaints, I 
wouldnt expect QIC to do anything differently without another comparable legal opinion 
thats supportive of Mr Cs position. Thats because wed consider a suitably qualified lawyer 
to be the expert on the legal issues complained of. 
Mr C is unhappy hes not had the benefit of legal advice on all the points hes raised. For the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think QIC needed to provide Mr C with legal advice 
(through its solicitors) because his claims didnt meet the threshold set out by the policy. The 
advice he was provided with about enforceability of covenants and the merits of the claims in 
general came from the solicitors instructed by QIC. I know Mr C remains dissatisfied with 
this. But as the investigator explained complaints about solicitors arent something I can 
consider so the recourse open to him is to complain to the firm of solicitors directly and then 
to the Legal Ombudsman if they cant resolve things for him. 
The position with the letter of claim as explained by Mr C was that QIC told him his policy 
covered the issues he was complaining of when he first approached them. But this was 
subject to an assessment of it by the solicitors instructed by QIC. The fact that Mr C sent out 
a letter of claim in reliance of this doesnt in my view mean QIC did something wrong.
They werent able to provide any advice about the merits of the claim because QIC arent 
legally qualified and the claims Mr C made were always going to be subject to an 
assessment by legal professionals. This was explained to him in an email from QIC in 
February 2020 when they said:
As I also mentioned on the telephone, whilst cover does apply in principle, there are some 
requirements that the policy imposes before we can confirm that cover will apply for the 
actual claim(s). Initially, I need to review the documents to see if the problems you are 
experiencing with your neighbour come within the scope of the cover available under the 
policy
Whilst its unfortunate that assessment didnt support his claims, I cant say QIC did 
something wrong in answering the questions put to them about general policy coverage and 
I think they made clear that a proper assessment needed to be conducted before they could 
agree to cover the claims.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against QIC Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman