DRN-2969993
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them life and
critical illness cover for mortgage protection which they didnt want or need.
In making their complaint, Mr and Mrs O are represented by a claims management
company.
What happened
In 2008, Mr and Mrs O contacted their mortgage lender, Halifax, about taking out a further
advance. They were looking to consolidate their finances. They applied for an advance of
£32,350, which took their total mortgage borrowing to around £113,000.
They spoke with an adviser on the telephone about this, and that adviser also recommended
Mr and Mrs O take out a mortgage protection plan that included life, critical illness and 
mortgage repayment cover. They already had level term assurance cover in place of
£93,000, but a new plan was recommended for the whole of the mortgage borrowing. The
new cover was arranged so that both the life and critical illness elements were on a
decreasing basis.
Mr and Mrs O sold their property in 2011; repaid their mortgage and ended the protection
plan.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs Os representatives complained on their behalf about the sale of the
2008 policy. Halifax agreed that the mortgage repayment cover, which was a form of
payment protection insurance, had been mis-sold, and paid redress to Mr and Mrs O.
However, Mr and Mrs O also complained about the sale of the life and critical illness cover.
The representative said Mr and Mrs O were told they needed to take them so that they could
get the borrowing they wanted, and they felt like they were given no option. They hadnt
wanted the life and critical illness cover and felt they could have put the money for the
premiums to better use. Mr and Mrs O had tried to make a claim on their existing plan which
was in place prior to the 2008 policy being recommended when Mr O was made redundant,
and they werent happy with this. Mr and Mrs Os representatives said they could have been
offered a top-up to this existing plan rather than taking out a whole new plan. They said that
they had suffered unnecessary stress as a result of taking out the cover and felt this was
unethical.
Halifax said it was clear that life and critical illness cover were recommended to Mr and
Mrs O and it didnt believe its adviser had done anything wrong as these were suitable for
them. It couldnt find any evidence to suggest that the adviser used unethical behaviour, and
they had provided Mr and Mrs O with all the key facts about the plan. It didnt think the life
and critical illness cover had been mis-sold to them.
Our investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He
said that he felt that Halifax had made it clear to Mr and Mrs O that they had a choice about
whether to take out the cover. The investigator said that he thought Mr and Mrs O had a
need for the cover and it matched their borrowing at the time. He didnt think the
recommendation to take out replacement cover was unsuitable as the decreasing term plans
were more appropriate to protect their repayment mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Os representatives didnt accept the investigators findings. They said Mr and
Mrs O had been sold the plan as a whole, and it had been established that the mortgage
repayment cover was wrongly advised. They said that, if the adviser had considered all the
factors, then a small top-up to the life assurance element could have been recommended
rather than their existing plan being churned. They said Mr and Mrs O had been told that
they had to take out the cover but had been considering cancelling their existing protection.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021, In summary, I thought it 
should be upheld. 
I said that I appreciated why Mr and Mrs Os representatives said that they felt a top-up to 
their existing cover may have been more appropriate for them when they were increasing 
their mortgage in 2008. But I was mindful that their previous plan gave them level term cover
for their repayment mortgage, which meant that the level of cover would stay the same while
the amount of their outstanding loan gradually went down.
But I wasnt persuaded that the mortgage protection plan was affordable for Mr and Mrs O.
There was limited information available from when Mr and Mrs O took out their further 
advance in 2008. They recalled this was done over the phone, and this was reflected in the 
notes that Halifax provided from that discussion. Halifax wasnt able to provide a copy of the
application for the mortgage or any fact find document relating to the advice.
The call notes suggested that Mr and Mrs O wanted the further advance for debt 
consolidation, and that their income was discussed, although confirmation of that income 
wasnt required. The discussion included that Mr O had been made redundant and had 
become self-employed. The notes said that Mr O pays himself a salary of £500 a month, 
which would suggest his income was around £6,000 a year.
I considered the acceptance letter for the mortgage protection plan that was sent to Mr
and Mrs O. This set out the details of the cover and the cost of each element included. This
letter recorded Mrs Os income as £9,611 and Mr Os income as £26,000 a year. This 
seemed to be substantially more than the information that Mr and Mrs O gave the adviser 
about their income at the time.
Mr and Mrs Os representatives told us that Mr Os income at the time was around £115 a 
week, which would match the figures noted by the adviser at the time. On my behalf, the 
investigator asked Halifax to provide further clarification about the records it held for
Mr Os income, but we didnt receive a response.I looked at the breakdown of costs of the protection plan. Including a discount for taking
both life and critical illness cover; the total cost was £190.39 a month, of which £108.22 was
for life and critical illness cover. From the available information, Mr and Mrs Os joint gross
monthly income would have been around £1,300  so before the deduction of tax - and their 
mortgage repayment was £1,040. Combined with the cost of the life and critical illness cover,
these outgoings were around £1,150. If this was the case, then this would leave Mr and 
Mrs O with very little to meet the costs of their other monthly expenditure and necessities.
Mr and Mrs O seemed to have been going through a significant change around that time. 
Mr O had recently been made redundant and had set up a business on his own. They 
wanted to borrow the money to consolidate their existing debts and try and reduce their 
outgoings. So it seemed fair to say that Mr and Mrs O were already in a position where their 
finances were likely to have been strained. And they told us that in 2011 they decided to sell 
the property and rent when Mr Os business had slowed, and they were at a point where 
arrears were starting to build up on their mortgage repayments.
While I acknowledged that having suitable life and critical illness cover in place may be
appropriate for a couple with dependent children taking out a joint mortgage commitment;
from the information provided to this point, I wasnt persuaded that it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs O to take out this protection plan as I didnt think their
circumstances suggested it was affordable for them.
It was because of this that I thought Halifax should refund the premiums Mr and Mrs O paid 
towards the life and critical illness elements of their protection plan with interest at an annual 
rate of 8% simple.
The responses
Mr and Mrs Os representatives responded that Mr and Mrs O accepted my provisional 
decision.
Halifax said it agreed with my provisional findings and the redress I proposed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Halifax and Mr and Mrs O have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings that I reached. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to refund the premiums Mr and Mrs O paid for the life and critical illness element of 
their protection plan and add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date each 
premium was paid until the date of settlement. 
If Halifax considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs O how much its taken off. It should also give them a
tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021. 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman