DRN-3327669
The complaint
Mr N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has refused to accept a loan settlement offer.
What happened
Mr N took out a Barclays loan in 2012 which defaulted in 2014. He says the loan was 
unaffordable and that Barclays has refused to accept a number of settlement offers made on 
his behalf. Mr N also complains about how those offers have been dealt with and the delays 
he has experienced waiting for a decision. He says Barclays has prevented a negotiation 
taking place and that his offers of between just over £2,408 to £3,872 were reasonable.
Barclays accepts it didnt respond as it ought to have to Mr N and has apologised as well as 
offering £150 compensation for that part of the complaint. It says it told Mr N to speak to its 
specialist department before it could consider a settlement figure. Barclays says Mr N did so 
but his income exceeded his expenditure and so it rejected the settlement figure which was 
just under half of the loan balance. It has also apologised for not being able to speak to Mr 
Ns father but says it didnt have the required authority.
Mr N brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the main part of the 
complaint which is the settlement offer. The investigator thought Barclays had considered 
the offer but had concluded Mr N had a greater income than expenditure. The investigator 
accepted that Barclays hadnt dealt with parts of the complaint appropriately but thought its 
compensation offer of £150 appropriate.
Mr N doesnt accept that view and maintains the loan was unaffordable in the first place. He 
says Barclays hasnt treated him fairly and says it offered to settle the loan in 2015 for the 
same amount he later offered. Mr N says Barclays should pay thousands for the poor level 
of service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr N will be disappointed by my decision and make clear to him that I 
cant look at the affordability of the loan itself as that has been subject to a separate 
decision.
The main issue here is Barclays refusal to accept Mr Ns loan settlement offer. The loan was 
defaulted in 2014 and it likely that the default no longer appears on Mr Ns credit file. It is 
also not clear if any repayments have been made since 2014 or if Barclays intend to pursue 
the debt any longer.
Im satisfied that Mr N took out the loan and that there is still an outstanding balance owed to 
Barclays. Im also satisfied that its up to Barclays to decide if its prepared to consider a 
settlement offer and I wouldnt expect Barclays to simply accept an offer without carrying out 
financial checks of Mr N and the offer. I can see that Barclays did carry out checks on Mr Ns 
finances and concluded that his income exceeded his expenditure. And decided in those 
circumstances that it wouldnt accept the settlement figure which was about £3,872 against a 
balance of over £6,000. I appreciate Mr Ns frustration in those circumstances, but Im 
satisfied its up to Barclays to fairly consider an offer which it has done and to make a 
commercial decision on its acceptability. Its not our role to interfere in how a business 
operates.
I appreciate Mr N says that Barclays was prepared to accept a settlement figure in 2015 
similar to the amount he offered some years later. But Im satisfied that some five years later 
Barclays was reasonably entitled to re-consider and assess the settlement offer in line with 
Mr Ns current financial position.
There is no dispute here that Barclays didnt deal appropriately with parts of this complaint. I 
accept that it could have told Mr N that it needed authority from his father before speaking to 
him and that it took some time to respond to the offer. I can see that Barclays accepts that 
and has apologised as well as offering £150 compensation. I think that offer is fair and 
reasonable and in line with the amount of compensation we would have awarded in these 
circumstances. I dont think Mr N suffered any financial loss as a result of what took place 
and dont consider those issues to be the main part of the complaint. I also dont think the 
delay in responding to Mr N had any overall impact, as the answer was that the settlement 
offer was not acceptable.
Overall, Im satisfied that its up to Barclays to decide if it wishes to accept an offer to settle a 
loan. Im also satisfied that its made an appropriate offer of £150 compensation for the other 
part of the complaint. That offer is available to Mr N if he wishes to accept it. No doubt Mr N 
will consider approaching Barclays specialist team if there has been a change in his financial 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and that Barclays Bank 
UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £150. Mr Ns acceptance of 
that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman