DRN-3733207
The complaint
X is unhappy Bank of China (UK) Ltd (BOC) wont refund the money she lost as the result 
of a scam.
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 26 September 2022 covered 
the details of Xs testimony. But briefly, X was approached by an individual on a professional 
network site who told her he invested in cryptocurrency and could help her make money. X 
made a payment of £1,500 on 6 July 2021 and a second payment of £7,000 on 10 July 2021 
- to what she believed was an opportunity that would help her earn some money. A few days 
later, after talking to a friend, she realised it was a scam.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She considered that BOC didnt go far enough 
and missed an opportunity to discuss the second payment with X. But she also felt that X 
should share in the responsibility as she could have taken more steps to confirm the 
legitimacy of the payment. The investigator thought the promised returns should have made 
X question the opportunity. The investigator also felt BOCs offer, for the trouble and upset X 
had gone through when raising her complaint, was fair.
X didnt agree so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should BOC have prevented the payments from being made?
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and 
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
It is not in dispute that X authorised the scam payments. It is also not in dispute that 
X was duped by the scammer into instructing the bank to transfer money to the scammers 
account. X told us the scammer deceived her through private messages on a professional 
network site into thinking she was making a legitimate investment. So, although X did not 
intend the money to go to the scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and 
the terms and conditions of her account, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider BOC 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud.
Ive looked at Xs account statements in the lead up to the first scam payment. The first 
payment wasnt for a particularly large amount (although I appreciate it is a lot of money to 
X) and it didnt leave the balance of her account at a particularly unusual level. Theres a 
balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and 
ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments. To the bank, it appeared as a genuinely 
authorised payment. So, I dont think the payment will have looked suspicious or would have 
stood out to BOC and I wouldnt expect BOC to have identified a scam risk as a result of it.
However, I agree the second transaction for £7,000 ought to have caused BOC concern. A 
£7,000 payment was still unusual and uncharacteristic for her and the account, particularly 
as it was being sent to a new payee and as an international payment. There had been no 
comparable legitimate payments in recent times and the remaining balance was significantly 
lower than it had been over the previous six months.
The bank did not intervene or ask X any appropriate questions. X has outlined some 
example questions the bank could have asked in response to the investigators opinion. I 
agree it could and should have done so. If the bank had asked who X was paying and what it 
was for, how she had met the person who recommended the investment opportunity, I think 
X would likely have explained she was approached by someone she didnt know on a 
professional network site about ways for her to make money. And with further questioning, I 
think BOC would have been concerned that X was at risk from financial harm. I consider the 
scam would have likely come to light at that point and X would not have suffered the loss 
she did. In other words, but for BOCs failure to intervene and probe further - the scam would 
probably not have succeeded. 
Could X have done more to mitigate her losses?
Ive thought carefully about what BOCs obligations were, as set out above. But another key 
issue is whether X acted reasonably taking into account all the circumstances of the scam. 
So, I have also considered whether X should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence.
X invested considerable sums of money based on advice from someone she didnt 
know, who had recently added themselves to her network online. X had not met or 
spoken to the scammer in person and had not known him for very long. I think the 
risk was clearly heightened and warranted further checking.
X didnt do enough independent checks to see if the platform was genuine. She only 
took what the scammer was saying and acted on this. I think she ought reasonably to have done more to check this was a genuine investment/opportunity to earn money.
Overall, Im not satisfied that a reasonable person wouldve believed this was a genuine 
situation or wouldve proceeded without doing substantive investigation and checks to verify 
all the information they were given  which I think would likely have shown inconsistencies 
and issues in the information provided. On that basis, I think its reasonable for X to share 
the responsibility with BOC and reduce the refund by 50%. 
Did BOC do enough to recover Xs funds?
Ive thought about whether BOC took reasonable steps to recover Xs funds once it was 
made aware she was the victim of a scam. The first scam payment was made on 6 July 
2021. X says she first tried to report the scam on 13 July 2021 - but was told to come back to 
the branch the following day. Even if there was a slight delay in BOC acting on Xs 
notification shed been scammed, and consequently a delay in it contacting the receiving 
bank, I dont consider it would have made a difference as the funds had been removed on 7 
July 2021 - before X first notified BOC of the scam. This is not uncommon as fraudsters 
usually remove funds within hours.
The second payment was an international payment and made on 10 July 2021. International 
banks arent bound by the same rules and regulations as banks within the UK.  The scam 
payment was made on 7 July 2021. The beneficiary bank confirmed the payment reached it 
on 12 July 2021 and that it would request debit from the beneficiary. X says she tried to 
report the scam on 13 July 2021. I understand that X didnt know she was the victim of a 
scam before this, but the delay means any recovery action was most unlikely to be 
successful as scammers usually remove funds within hours. BOC is reliant upon the 
international bank choosing to return funds. It cant require or force them to and 
unfortunately no funds have been returned. From what Ive seen BOC has done what it 
shouldve to try and recover these funds for X, but have been unable to obtain a refund for 
her.
In the circumstances I am satisfied BOC should fairly and reasonably reimburse X for £7,000 
loss she suffered with a 50% reduction, together with interest to compensate her for being 
deprived of the money she lost.  I am satisfied that had the fraudster not taken the money 
from X, it would have been otherwise spent, so I consider it fairest to award 8% simple 
interest from the date of the transfer to the date of settlement.
I have thought about the offer of £100 from BOC for the distress and inconvenience X has 
suffered. I appreciate X had issues raising her complaint with BOC initially, in particular - the 
bank did not investigate and react immediately and gave X the wrong forms to complete. But 
this was a few days at the most  so it was not a prolonged period and for the reasons 
explained above - its actions have not caused an actual financial loss. I do agree BOC has 
caused a degree of trouble and upset here, but I think this offer is fair. In reaching that 
conclusion I am mindful that her loss was ultimately caused by the callous act of a fraudster.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for X Bank of China (UK) Ltd should
Pay X 50% of £7,000 within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of my 
final decision: plus
Pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum on the sum above from the date of 
loss to the date of refund1. 
1 If BOC is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send X a tax deduction certificate so 
she can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.Pay £100 for distress and inconvenience (unless this has already been paid).
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint in part and require Bank of China (UK) Ltd to put 
things right for X as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman