DRN-3313451
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain, through a claims management company (CMC), that Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax provided unsuitable investment advice to them in 1999 and in 
2001.
What happened
In March 1999, Halifax said Mr and Mrs C were advised to invest £20 per month into an 
existing ISA Investor- UK Growth Fund, which they did. This boosted the monthly savings 
they were paying into the ISA which was ranked as medium risk. In October 2001, Mr and 
Mrs C were advised by Halifax to invest a further £2,819 each into the ISA Investor. Mr C 
surrendered his ISA in February 2004 and received back £3,894.80. At the same time, 
Mrs C surrendered her ISA and received back £2,694.56.
 In October 2001 Mr and Mrs C were also advised to invest £35,000 into a joint Investment 
Bond and £29,362 into a Halifax Bonus Bond in joint names. This was funded in part from a 
payment of £100,000 made under a critical illness policy that related to Mrs Cs health.
The Investment Bond was surrendered in 2004 and Mr and Mrs C received back 
£31,980.48. The Halifax Bonus Bond was surrendered in 2005 and Mr and Mrs C received 
back £29,179.59.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy that in 1999, the recommended investment carried too much 
risk based on their circumstances. 
And in 2001, they felt Halifaxs advice to invest was wrongly timed because Mrs C had 
recently had a serious health condition diagnosed and her prognosis was still uncertain.
In response to this complaint, Halifax said both Mr and Mrs C had some investment 
experience. In particular, Halifax felt Mr C wouldve had some financial knowledge and 
understanding of the advisers role and generic products on offer and he would also have 
been able to ask the adviser any questions. And in summary, Halifax said that, in 1999, 
Mr and Mrs C were investing a very small proportion of their disposable income and had 
capacity to take a medium risk with the regular payments. It said that in 2001 its adviser had 
taken into account all their circumstances when making his recommendations and 
Mr and Mrs C had been in a fully informed position to make the investment choices they 
decided on and able to invest. Halifax said they were both working when they decided to 
invest £70,000 (as opposed to the £80,000 recommended) in the products proposed by the 
adviser, which were suitable for them. 
So Halifax didnt uphold their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with this response so they brought their complaint to us. 
Where complaints concern events that happened more than six years ago, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cant always look into what happened. Halifax said that it thought the 
complaint was out of time. 
Our investigator first considered whether the complaint was in our jurisdiction. He explained 
to Halifax why he thought Mr and Mrs C were still in time to bring their complaint. 
Halifax then gave its consent to us investigating Mr and Mrs Cs complaint so our 
investigator proceeded to look at the merits of the complaint.
Based on all the information he had seen, the investigator didnt feel this was a complaint he 
could recommend upholding as he thought that the advice Halifax had provided had been 
suitable. To briefly summarise, in 1999, he said Mr and Mrs C had capacity to invest some of 
their money in risk-based assets and the extra £20 per month was equivalent to just 3% of 
their monthly disposable income. He also concluded the ISA Investor- UK Growth Fund 
matched Mr and Mrs Cs risk appetite and investment objectives. 
In 2001, Mr and Mrs C were both earning more, almost doubling the amount of disposable 
income compared to their position in 1999. They had ready access to around £7,500 in a 
cash ISA and deposit based savings. Mrs C had received a £100,000 lump sum from a 
critical illness claim, which they wanted to save for capital growth. 
The investigator said the Fact Find showed the adviser had taken Mr and Mrs Cs financial 
situation and wider circumstances fully into consideration before making his 
recommendations which looked suitable for them, given that they had a large monthly cash 
surplus, policies in place that aimed to repay their mortgage, they had no planned 
expenditure and werent expecting any changes to their circumstances in the future.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator. On their behalf, the CMC said Mrs C was 
working only because she couldnt afford not to and it was inconceivable that advice was 
given to invest over the medium to long term when her health was so uncertain. They asked 
for a referral to an ombudsman to look at the case again.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules under which we operate can be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. These say that unless a business consents or there are exceptional 
circumstances we cant consider a complaint that has been brought more than six years 
after the event complained about or, if later, more than three years after the complainant was 
aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of a cause for complaint. 
Halifax has consented to us looking into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about what happened in 
1999 and 2001 when it sold these investments to them, so I am satisfied that I can consider 
the complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint. Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
When thinking about whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs C suitable investment advice, Ive 
thought about the following key questions:
keeping in mind their financial situation and wider circumstances, were Mr and Mrs C 
in a strong enough financial position to be able to invest? If so,thinking in particular about the amount invested and the investment risk, was the 
investment advice Halifax provided suitable?
With this approach in mind, Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Cs financial situation when 
Halifax provided investment advice and made its recommendations to Mr and Mrs C. 
1999
As far as I can see, all of Mr and Mrs Cs living costs and other financial needs and 
requirements were amply covered out of their joint income and they still had a cash surplus 
of around £500. So I think it's fair to say they had sufficient disposable income to be able to 
absorb some loss if necessary when seeking to achieve their longer term financial aims. 
And overall, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs C were in a strong enough financial situation to 
be able to invest. 
I consider that the investment advice was suitable, given Mr and Mrs Cs particular 
circumstances and financial situation, and their objectives to achieve capital growth in the 
medium to long term. 
They were already both invested in a joint Halifax Homeplan policy opened in 1998 - a unit 
linked plan originally taken out to support their mortgage. It included an investment element 
via a PEP/ISA and the £20 monthly payments recommended were to be added as a top up 
to the existing ISA part. 
The risk level in the 1999 investment was medium. Bearing in mind the small monthly 
increase in the amount being invested in the ISA, out of disposable income of around £500, 
I think it was reasonable to recommend this risk-based investment to Mr and Mrs C in 1999. 
On balance the recommendation was in line with what Mr and Mrs C were aiming to achieve 
regarding growing their capital, at an appropriate level of risk for them.
2001
I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs C might be concerned that their circumstances in 2001, 
particularly Mrs Cs health condition, meant it wasnt a good time for Halifaxs adviser to 
make the recommendations he did. I have thought carefully about this, but I consider overall 
the recommendations made were suitable. 
Mrs Cs diagnosis of a serious and potentially life threatening condition resulted in a 
£100,000 pay-out on a policy that included provision for critical illness. So Mr and Mrs C 
needed to consider what to do with that money and I think they were right to take 
professional advice from a financial adviser. 
It was a substantial amount of money designed to help mitigate the possible financial 
consequences of Mrs Cs condition so it was important that Mr and Mrs C understood their 
options for making that money work for them in the way they hoped. 
At the same time, they were now in a position where they had just over £1,000 surplus cash 
each month. 
They already had ready access to around £7,500 savings if they needed money in a hurry. 
To my mind, this meant Mr and Mrs C were able to afford to invest some of their monthly 
surplus plus the lump sum paid to Mrs C to achieve their financial aims. Halifax has provided copies of some of the point of sale paperwork from 2001. 
To my mind, the key part of the suitability letter says:  
We discussed various types of investments, assessed your attitude to risk and agreed you: 
 will accept risk to some of your money, as you have received a pay out from a life and 
critical illness policy, and now you have considered your options, you have decided not to 
repay your mortgage, as you can afford the monthly payments. For the money you have to 
invest you are looking to retain easy access to £27,500 while for the remainder, you are 
willing to look at medium to long term investments, that have no guarantees to your capital if 
you encash your policies in the first few years. 
 are prepared to see your money go up and down in value, you presently own a number of 
shares and as such are used to the fluctuations of Stock Market linked investments, however 
you are more concerned with the long term growth of these policies, as you have no plans 
for this money over at least the next 5 years. 
It looks like Mr and Mrs Cs shared main objective was capital growth. Halifax rated the risk 
level within the ISAs and Investment Bond as medium. It said the Bonus Bond carried a 
cautious/medium level of risk.
Mr and Mrs C wanted to earn a greater return on their money than they could expect if they 
left it in a deposit account. 
They said they didnt require any income from their investment and that they were prepared 
to invest for the medium term and for at least five years. 
Halifax doesnt have a record of any detailed discussion about the risk Mr and Mrs C were 
prepared to take with their investment. 
However the documentation from the time of the sale does record that Mr and Mrs C were 
willing to accept fluctuations in the value of their assets, and to invest in products linked to 
the stock market with the accompanying risk that that would bring. 
Overall I am satisfied Mr and Mrs C were prepared to take a medium risk with some of their 
investments. 
It looks to me like the investments recommended gave them a well balanced portfolio that 
reasonably reflected their agreed objectives and risk attitude. 
I've taken into account that the CMC said Mrs C was only working at the time because she 
couldnt afford not to as she had recently started her job and didnt yet qualify for sick pay. 
But it doesnt appear to me that losing Mrs Cs monthly contribution to the household 
finances would likely have caused any particular money problems for Mr and Mrs C. 
Given that Mr C was the main earner and their overall financial situation looked secure  and 
stronger than it was in 1999 when she wasnt in paid employment  on balance I think it 
looks like Mr and Mrs C were not relying on Mrs Cs income. I dont think the adviser would have had any good reason to think that Mrs Cs health was 
impacting on her ability to keep earning when she was evidently able to be at work  or that 
her recent illness was necessarily an impediment to her being able to continue in work, 
solely because it had resulted in a critical illness payment. 
And I cant fairly say it was unreasonable for Halifaxs adviser to include Mrs Cs earnings in 
his future planning when thinking about Mr and Mrs Cs overall financial situation.
The CMC has questioned why advice was given to invest over the medium to long term 
when Mrs Cs health was so uncertain following her illness that had led to the critical illness 
payment. 
Whilst I appreciate why the CMC has raised this issue, my view is that the evidence from the 
time of the 2001 sales does not indicate to me that it was inappropriate for Mr and Mrs C to 
invest for the medium to long term. 
This was their documented aim and there is no suggestion from this time that Mrs Cs recent 
illness was impacting upon the decisions Mr and Mrs C were making about their financial 
future. 
So what the CMC has said about Mrs Cs critical illness pay-out doesnt affect my overall 
view or change the outcome. 
In coming to my decision, I've also thought carefully about what the CMC said about not 
assuming any specialist knowledge on Mr Cs part. I think that is a fair comment. But as far 
as I can see, the adviser set out his advice and recommendations reasonably clearly and 
theres nothing to suggest he assumed Mr C had any specialist financial knowledge or 
treated him any differently to Mrs C. 
It looks like Mr C mainly handled the Fact Find meetings on behalf of himself and his wife so 
I think he would have had ample opportunity to query anything he didnt understand or 
wanted more information about  and I believe he would have known this.
Mr and Mrs C chose to invest £10,000 less than the adviser suggested. And they didnt take 
up his suggestion about using some of the money to pay off part of their mortgage as they 
felt investing that money better reflected their own financial priorities at the time. So I think 
its clear that Mr and Mrs C had a good enough understanding of the recommended options 
to be able to make their own choices about which investments were most closely aligned 
with their approach to risk and offered them the best chance of achieving their financial 
goals. 
To sum up, I think that Mr and Mrs C understood and accepted the risk of the investments 
that Halifax advised them to invest in and that the risk of the products recommended to them 
was suitable for their identified objectives. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs C knew they were signing up to a level of 
risk they were happy to take in order to obtain the capital growth they hoped for.  
All in all, this leads me to conclude that I havent seen enough to make me think that 
Halifaxs investments were too risky for Mr and Mrs C or otherwise unsuitable. I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of this 
complaint. I appreciate that the outcome for Mr and Mrs C is disappointing but I hope that 
setting things out as I've done helps to explain how I have reached my decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman