DRN-1790361
 
The complaint
Mr O's complaint is that the price quoted by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited ('HL') on, 1 August 2019, to sell his 'S&U' position mismatched the price quoted 
online (on its platform) and turned a potential gain into a potential loss.
What happened
In the main, Mr O says he purchased the total/combined position between 23 and 24 May 
2019, at the cost of 49p per share; thereafter HL's price chart showed that the shares were 
trading at 53p each; by 24 June the chart showed that the shares were trading at 65p each, 
which gave him a potential gain of around 31%; the same chart price existed on 1 August, 
however when he called HL (on this date) to instruct the sale of his position he was quoted a 
sell price of 40p per share, which gave him a potential loss.
Mr O complained about what he considered to be an unfair and misleading mismatch in the 
quotes. He noted that his account information, upon which he relied, showed that his 
position was valued on the basis of the 65p per share price as of 10:04am on the same date 
(1 August).
HL disputes the complaint. In the main, it says the S&U stock did not have live bid/offer 
prices as it traded over-the-counter ('OTC'); this, and the stock's illiquidity at the time, meant 
that the trade could not happen online, that it had to happen over the telephone and that 
HL had to match Mr O's sale request with a counterparty buyer in the market; in doing so, it 
obtained the price of 40p per share from its market maker and passed that to Mr O; for the 
same reasons (as above) its platform did not present live/current prices for the stock and 
there was an express warning next to the price quoted online which stated this and directed 
clients to telephone for current prices; Mr O did not accept the price quoted and did not 
proceed with the sale on 1 August; thereafter, on 17 September, he sold his shares at the 
price of 42p each.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld - for reasons broadly similar to those given by HL. Mr O disagreed with this outcome. 
He said it was reasonable for him to rely on the platform information provided by HL and it 
should be held responsible for incorrect information in this respect; and that the warning HL 
has referred to was misleading because there was also  a notice on the platform that said 
"updated at 10:04. Delayed for 15 minutes" which led him to believe the price quoted was 
correct for the time span of 15 minutes. He says this notice should not have been displayed 
if the price was unreliable.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and whyI have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I conclude that the 
complaint is not upheld. I am persuaded by the case presented by HL.
Mr O's complaint is about the loss of opportunity to sell his position on 1 August at the price 
of 65p per share. Available evidence is that the S&U stock he held was subject to OTC 
trading, hence the telephone trading option that applied. We have also been given evidence 
of what Mr O would have seen on the online platform, whereby the 65p was quoted for the 
position. Next to relevant entry was reference to a footnote, which read - "This is not a 
current price, but is the most recent we have available online. For a more up-to-date price, 
please contact us." [my emphasis] 
I understand Mr O's argument about being entitled to rely on information from the platform. 
However, it cannot reasonably be ignored that the information given online about the price 
for his position included the express and explicit warning quoted above. The warning related 
directly to reliability. It clarified that the price could not be relied upon for accuracy and it 
extended an invitation, to account holders, to call HL for an accurate price. I do not consider 
this warning to have been misleading.
I also do not accept Mr O's suggestion that the warning was unclear because of the notice 
he has quoted. That notice - about the price being 'delayed' and last updated at 10:04 - did 
more to emphasise the unreliability of the price (in terms of accuracy) than otherwise.
I can understand Mr O's point that the notice indicated to him that the price was as quoted at 
10:04. However, I do not quite understand why he appears to say he expected the same 
price to remain for 15 minutes. Reference to a delay (of, for example, 15 minutes) 
would usually have meant the price was as quoted 15 minutes previously, not necessarily 
that it remained the same for 15 minutes. In any case, this notice ought reasonably to have 
been read in the context of the warning quoted above. The message from that warning - 
which Mr O was aware of - remained that HL had to be contacted for an accurate price. 
The matter of illiquidity that HL has referred to explains why a market maker had to be 
sought for the potential OTC stock sale. This element adds to the reason(s) why the price 
quoted online was not to be (or could not have been) regarded as accurate - an accurate 
price was dependent on identifying a counter party (or market maker) to the potential sale. 
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above I am not persuaded to uphold Mr O's 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr O's complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 June 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman