DRN-3072904
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way that W.R. Berkley Insurance (Europe), PLC dealt with his 
commercial policy claim for subsidence damage. The claim was dealt with throughout by a 
claims management company though for convenience Ill refer to Berkley throughout.
What happened
In January 2016 Mr M noticed cracking to his commercial property and reported a claim to 
Berkley. It sent out its loss adjuster to carry out a site visit. The loss adjuster noticed the 
floors had dropped but didnt think there was evidence that this was due to subsidence. They 
recommended that Mr M instruct an engineer to confirm whether there was subsidence. 
Mr M appointed an engineer, W, who carried out a site inspection in March 2016. He advised 
that there was damage indicative of subsidence to the front leading edge of the party wall. 
He said this was likely caused by a drainpipe at the front of the property which discharged 
directly into the soil. He advised further investigations were necessary. A level survey report 
was carried out in May 2017. This concluded that the drop in the floor levels was historic and 
preceded the policy taken out in 2013. 
W drew up a schedule of repairs (referring to the plans) as follows:
1. relevel the ground floor from line A-B over the front wall line D-C.
2. relevel the first floor from line J-K over to the front wall M-L.
3 to carry out brick and plaster repairs at ground and first floors.
4. redecorate the affected areas.
Mr M wasnt happy with the proposed repairs and in addition wanted the following repairs 
carried out:
5. relevel the ground floor at least back to line X-Y.
6. relevel the down stand beam (even to the extent of jacking it up).
7. relevel the ceiling of the ground floor.
8. relevel (perhaps replace if necessary) the front shop window.
W advised that items 5,6 and part of 7 were most likely due to historic, but now stabilised, 
movement and not covered by the policy. He advised against jacking up the beam as this 
would be likely to cause considerably more damage.
Mr M disagreed with W particularly about the historic damage and decided to appoint 
another engineer, K, who reported in January 2018. Ks main conclusions were that the 
damage wasnt historic, that it affected the middle and back of the property as well as the 
front and that the damage had progressed further since 2016. They said underpinning was 
likely although recognised other methods of stabilisation. They agreed with W on the main 
cause of the subsidence, namely the drainpipe at the front. They also said leaking drains 
and the front drainpipe had likely caused the subsidence towards the middle and back of the 
property.
W was asked for his comments on Ks report. Following a site survey in July 2018, he 
maintained his position, that there was historic damage at the property. He reviewed the 
current damage and concluded that it hadnt progressed since 2016. In his view, the property 
had stabilised since the water going into the front drainpipe had been redirected. He didnt 
agree that there was any need for underpinning, unless it was identified that movement was 
ongoing, which he thought unlikely. 
It was also identified that the upstairs floor joists were rotting due to an ongoing leak from a 
toilet. W didnt believe this was connected to the subsidence at the front.
A drain survey was carried out in December 2018, which revealed the drains were leaking 
from a displaced joint. The survey didnt say there was a link between that and the 
subsidence. W said the results of the drain survey did not show defects that would have
affected or contributed to the subsidence at the front of the property nor was the subsidence 
at the front of the property thought to have caused the drain defects.
Berkley accepted Ws conclusions and agreed to the repairs set out at items 1 to 4. It later 
agreed to cover items 7 and 8. It didnt believe there was any need for underpinning. It 
agreed that it would consider further works if they were considered necessary due to 
subsidence of the site. So far as the drain leak was concerned it said Mr M should arrange 
for the joint to be repaired.
As for the upstairs leak, Berkley said this was a gradual cause and that there was rotting of 
some of the floor joists, both of which werent covered.
Mr M didnt agree and insisted the damage wasnt historic and that the property needed 
underpinning. He was critical of Ws reports and his motives. He believes that following the 
initial report he was no longer his engineer, but working for Berkley.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Ws reports and opinions were more 
persuasive and were to be preferred over Ks report. He pointed out that both W and K were 
appointed by Mr M, and hadnt ceased working on his behalf. With regard to the water 
damage, he said that Berkley should cover this, as it was caused by the escape of water and 
Mr M couldnt have been expected to identify it earlier.
Our investigator further recommended that Berkley pay Mr M £150 compensation for its 
delays, which it agreed to.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
appointment of engineers
Both engineers were appointed by Mr M. I understand that after W set out the repairs 
necessary, Mr M decided to instruct K, but W didnt cease working on his behalf merely 
because he was asked for further comments on the reports. Berkley wasnt responsible for 
their appointment, nor was it responsible if there was any delay on the engineers part. Having said that, its acceptable to read their reports critically. But I must advise Mr M that in 
cases such as this where detailed technical knowledge is required we have to rely on expert 
opinion, rather than our own or Mr Ms opinion as to the cause of the damage or the repairs 
needed. I would add that there is absolutely no evidence that W had any motive other than 
to act perfectly professionally and I dont accept Mr Ms criticisms of him in that respect. I 
should point out that Berkley at first didnt think there was any subsidence damage and was 
persuaded to change its view following Ws report.
cause of damage
I think, having considered Ws various reports and Ks report, the opinions of W are to be 
preferred and are I find more persuasive. I note W is a qualified engineer and assume K to 
be the same. But W has been involved with the case from 2016 and is in a much better 
position to see if the property had stabilised. He has given full justification for saying that part 
of the moment of the property is historic, and has also explained fully why he didnt think that 
the escape of water was linked to the subsidence. I note that the drain surveyors didnt say 
this either.
In respect of underpinning whilst it may be recommended, W hasnt found it to be necessary 
in this case, as from his observations over time he has found the property to have stabilised. 
So I think that Berkley was right to agree to repair on the basis of Ws schedule. It added 
items 7 and 8 for reasons of expediency. I think, bearing in mind that it agreed that it would 
consider further works if they were considered necessary, and Ws view that underpinning 
may be reconsidered if the property was still found to be moving, thats a reasonable 
response. I should point out that W didnt consider item 6 to be appropriate, and Ive seen no 
expert opinion which says otherwise. 
This leaves only item 5 that Berkley wont agree to. This is because its linked to historic 
damage. Mr M is concerned that the property wont be put into a full state of repair. Berkley 
will be required to carry out repairs that are lasting and effective. The property is I 
understand distorted from historic damage and not much can be done about that. But Im 
persuaded by Ws reports that the repairs he proposes will be lasting and effective.
loss of rent/second opinion
Mr M I understand required his previous tenants to forfeit the lease so the property was 
unoccupied at the time the damage was noted. It was anticipated that the repairs would be 
carried out in 2017, and I dont think that Berkley is responsible for the fact that they werent. 
So, I dont think that loss of rent is payable.
As for the second opinion, whilst Mr M was within his rights to seek a second opinion, that 
opinion hasnt affected the decision to carry out Ws recommended repairs, so I wont require 
Berkley to pay for this.
escape of water
It appears that there has been an escape of water affecting the first floor  I dont think that 
Mr M could have known about this until more site investigations were carried out. The fact 
that this has caused rot is not a reason for Berkley to rely on the exclusions for rot or gradual 
cause. So I think Berkley should reconsider the damage caused by this as a claim for 
escape of water. 
drainsAs it hasnt been shown that the leaking drains are a cause of the subsidence, Berkley are 
under no obligation to pay for their repair. Mr M doesnt have accidental damage to buildings 
cover under his policy. Its up to him, but I think Mr M should arrange for their repair, as if 
they cause damage in the future he may not be covered. 
compensation
I think there were delays at first in this case. Firstly, it was thought that Mr W had only been 
insured with Berkley since 2015, when in fact it was 2013. This led to delay in accepting the 
claim. Secondly W had recommended that Berkley cover items 7 & 8 of the proposed 
repairs, but it took some time for it to agree this. Thirdly I think it should have accepted the 
claim for escape of water.
I dont think this added to the overall delay in dealing with the case, which was mainly 
caused by Mr M not agreeing with his experts report. As Ive said Berkley isnt responsible 
for any delay on the experts part. Our investigator proposed that Berkley pay compensation 
of £150. I think thats fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Berkley should reconsider the claim for escape of water. It should further pay Mr M £150 
compensation.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require W.R. Berkley Insurance (Europe), PLC to provide 
the remedy set out under Putting things right" above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman