DRN-3303343
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr V say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection policy (PPI) in 
May 1996. The policy was taken out alongside Mrs M and Mr Vs mortgage.  
The policy cost Mrs M and Mr V £6.94 a month and provided a monthly benefit of £160. The 
policy provided cover for Mrs M only for accident, sickness and unemployment. The policy 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim. 
Mrs M and Mr V say the PPI was mis-sold to them as it was added to the mortgage without 
their knowledge. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs M and Mr Vs complaint should be upheld. Mrs M and Mr V 
disagreed, so the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs M and Mr Vs case. Having done this, I dont 
uphold Mrs M and Mr Vs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds shouldve taken reasonable steps to make it clear the policy was optional. It also 
shouldve got Mrs M and Mr Vs agreement to take it out. 
Lloyds has provided the application form that was completed at the time. The form isnt 
particularly clear, so I have considered it alongside Mrs M and Mr Vs comments. I have 
also kept in mind what we know in general about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time to decide 
whats more likely to have happened. 
The application form captures Mrs M and Mr Vs personal details, and I can see there is a 
separate section about the PPI. The form suggests PPI has been selected for Miss M. I 
wouldve expected there to have been conversations with the Lloyds adviser about the PPI 
and this paperwork wouldve been completed to reflect those conversations.  In Mrs M and 
Mr Vs case the PPI covered Mrs M only  this indicates there was a discussion about Mrs 
M and Mr Vs individual circumstances and a decision was made about how best to set up 
the policy. Ive also considered the fact the PPI was taken out alongside a mortgage, and 
this process usually involves detailed discussions around individual circumstances  as 
highlighted by the application form. Lloyds has also provided a copy of the paperwork that 
was given to Mrs M and Mr V after their application was completed and within this there is 
reference to PPI and the separate cost of the cover is detailed. 
I can see Mrs M and Mr V feel strongly the PPI was added without their knowledge. 
However, taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mrs M and Mr V were 
given a choice about the policy and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
Lloyds recommended the policy to Mrs M and Mr V so it had to check that they were right for 
them. The policy covered Mrs M only, and looking at her circumstances at the time I think 
the recommendation was suitable for Mrs M. I say this because:
Based on the policy terms, Mrs M was eligible for the cover.
There was nothing about Mrs Ms employment or occupation which would have made 
it difficult for her to claim. Mrs M also hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim. This means there was nothing to stop 
her claiming the full benefits of the policy if shed needed to.
Mrs Ms told us she wouldve received significant sick pay from her employer, and 
this shows she had no need for the PPI. The policy wouldve paid out if Mrs M was 
off work due to accident, sickness and unemployment. It wouldve paid out alongside 
any employee benefits Mrs M had, and this couldve allowed Mrs M to use employee 
benefits to cover other everyday living expenses or financial commitments at what 
couldve been a challenging time.
Mrs M and Mr V were taking on a significant and long-term financial commitment, 
which was secured on their home. The effects of not keeping up with the repayments 
couldve been serious for them. I think having the security that the repayments 
wouldve been made if Mrs M was unable to work wouldve been important to them.
As well as checking the policy was suitable for Mrs M, Lloyds also shouldve given Mrs M 
and Mr V clear information about the policy so that they could make a proper choice about 
whether or not to take it out. I dont know what steps Lloyds took to do this and its possible 
some things werent explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer 
information wouldve changed Mrs M and Mr Vs decision. I think theyd still have bought the 
policy. I say this for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for Mrs M.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M and Mr V have said, including the general points Mrs M 
has raised about the mis-sale of PPI. I have considered Mrs M and Mr Vs case on an 
individual basis and Mrs Ms points dont change my decision. For the reasons set out 
above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs M and 
Mr V, but I hope my decision clearly sets out my reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman