DRN-4398786
The complaint
Mr U complains about Charterhouse Claims Limited (CCL) and their decision to invoice him 
for their settlement fee on successful mis-sold Pay Day loan claims where his refund was 
used to reduce his arrears.
What happened
Over the course of 2019 and 2020, Mr U signed several Letters of Authority (LOA) 
instructing CCL to pursue claims for mis-sold Pay Day loans against several lenders on his 
behalf. By signing these LOAs, Mr U agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of the 
agreement with CCL.
CCL pursued several claims, and many of these were successful. For many of the 
successful claims, Mr U had outstanding arrears with the lenders and so, any refund was 
used to offset his arrears meaning he didnt receive a direct cash settlement. And Mr U was 
unhappy in these situations, CCL still invoiced him for their fee, meaning he ultimately ended 
up with an additional debt he didnt have to begin with. So, he complained to CCL, explaining 
he wanted CCL to write off his debt, which had since been passed by CCL to a debt 
recovery company, who Ill refer to as D. And he wanted ay payments hed made to D to be 
refunded to him, plus interest.
CCL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought it was made reasonably 
clear to Mr U in the terms and conditions of the agreement he entered into that, where a 
refund was used to reduce his arrears, they would still expect payment for their own 
settlement fee. So, they didnt think they had acted unfairly when invoicing Mr U. But they did 
recognise Mr Us comments about the impact on his mental health, and they referred him to 
organisations that could support him with this, and his outstanding debt. Mr U remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised Mr Us point 
of view, and the impact the situation had on his financial situation and his mental health. But 
they thought the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr U entered into with CCL made it 
clear that, should any refund they secure be used to reduce his outstanding debt, they would 
still expect payment of their invoice. And our investigator explained this was usual industry 
practice. So, our investigator didnt think CCL needed to do anything more on this occasion. 
Mr U didnt agree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. 
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr U. I dont doubt the 
financial difficulties Mr U was experiencing at the time of the claims, and the difficulties hes 
faced since. I recognise Mr U instructed CCL to pursue claims for mis-sold Pay Day loans on 
his behalf, with the intention of improving his financial situation. So, when CCL invoiced Mr U 
for settlement fees he couldnt afford to pay, I recognise why hed question the actions and 
motives of CCL, as effectively a new debt was created which conflicted with his original 
intentions. Because of this, I can understand why Mr U feels CCL acted unfairly and why 
hed wanted his debt with them written off, plus a refund of what hes already paid.
But for me to say CCL should do something more, such as the actions Mr U has requested, I 
first need to be satisfied CCL have done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied CCL 
acted outside of the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr U held when invoicing him for 
their fees. Or, if I think they did work within these, Id need to be satisfied CCL acted unfairly 
in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen Mr U signed several LOAs instructing CCL to pursue claims on his behalf over 
several years. While I recognise Mr Us comments about CCLs sale tactics, I wouldnt have 
expected Mr U to continue to engage with, and use the services of, CCL if he felt he was 
being pressured in a way he felt was unfair. So, from the information I have available to me, 
Im satisfied Mr U authorised CCL to act on his behalf and that he did so based on his own 
decision making, through his own choice.
And when Mr U signed the LOAs instructing CCL to act on his behalf, I can see each LOA 
stated clearly in bold, above the signature section, that You should only sign this document 
if you have read and agree to the Letter of Authority, Terms & Conditions and the 
Companys Privacy Policy. And included within this statement was a link to the terms and 
conditions.
So, before signing the LOAs, Id expect Mr U to ensure he clicked the link to read the 
accompanying terms and conditions. And as he did sign them, I think CCL were fair to 
assume Mr U agreed to be bound them.
Ive read through the terms and conditions. And these explain under the heading Our Fees 
that CCL would charge a 35% plus VAT success fee for any compensation Mr U received. 
And the terms go onto explain You should be aware that compensation means benefit 
which you receive as a result of our service, there may be situations where the 
compensation is credited to your loan balance, and you will still have to pay our fee.
So, I think this condition makes it reasonably clear that, where a lender chooses to offset or 
reduce an outstanding debt Mr U had, CCL would still require payment of their success fee. 
So, where CCL have done this, I think they acted within the terms and conditions of the 
agreement Mr U entered into when doing so. And I must stress that this falls in line with 
standard industry approach in the same circumstances. 
But as Ive explained above, as well as ensuring CCL acted within the terms and conditions 
of the agreement, Ive also thought about whether they were fair to do so.
Ive seen many instances where, when a lender explained some or all of the refund would be 
used to reduce an outstanding debt, CCL asked Mr U whether he wished to accept the offer 
first. And Ive seen no evidence to show Mr U ever queried this, or rejected an offer put 
forward by a lender. So, I think CCL gave Mr U a reasonable opportunity here.
And its also important to note that by reducing the debt Mr U owed, Mr U was receiving a 
financial benefit, as he had less debt to repay to the lenders involved. So, I think the service 
CCL provided to Mr U was a benefit to him and because of this, I think they were fair to expect payment for the service they provided.
While I appreciate Mr U sees CCLs fees as an additional debt, its important to note their 
success fee was for less than the refund Mr U received. So, although Mr U feels as though 
he has ended up with more debt than he had originally, this isnt the case from a financial 
perspective. While Mr U may have additional debtors to pay, the amount he needed to repay 
was significantly less, following CCLs involvement. So, I cant say that CCL have acted 
unfairly here. And because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr U was hoping for. And I recognise Mr U has needed to 
enter into a debt management plan with D, as he was unable to pay CCL directly within the 
timeframes they expected. But any debt management plan he has agreed is separate to this 
complaint. And I am glad to see Mr U has been able to agree a repayment plan, which I 
hope would be affordable to him. If this isnt the case, this will be something he needs to 
raise with D directly. Im also pleased to see that, in response to Mr Us complaint, CCL 
provided signposting to several organisations that can support Mr U with his mental health, 
and financial situation. This is what Id expect CCL to do, and I think it shows them acting in 
good faith to try and help Mr U where possible, considering they didnt do anything wrong on 
this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Us complaint about Charterhouse Claims 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman