DRN-4118560
The complaint
Mr M has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined to meet a claim he made under 
his travel insurance policy. He has also complained about the service he received.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. In summary Mr M lost his headphones whilst abroad. Our investigator didnt find that 
AXA had done anything wrong. Mr M appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. 
It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the 
complete file. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able 
to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Ms policy requires that he report any loss. This is not an unusual policy term and 
I dont find that it was unfair or unreasonable for AXA to require Mr M to provide such 
a report to substantiate his claim. 
Having made his claim AXA asked Mr M to provide this evidence. It said that if he 
didnt have a police report it would need to see a loss report from his tour 
representative, hotel or similar. It advised that it would be unable to consider his 
claim without this evidence. I find this was reasonable.
I can see that Mr M emailed AXA several times asking what was happening with his 
claim and if anything else was required from him. He was told that claims could take 
up to three months to be processed but after this time had elapsed Mr M needed to 
write again to find out what was happening with his claim. In response AXA again 
requested a report. It also requested a brief description of the incident. I can 
understand why Mr M was frustrated with the service he received. In response to our 
investigators written outcome he offered to get a report from a local police station. 
However, in this decision I am considering AXAs decision to decline the claim when 
it did. If Mr M wishes to present further evidence, he will need to send it directly to 
AXA.
AXA recognised that there had been delays in processing Mr Ms claim and 
apologised. It also offered £50 in compensation  I find that compensation was 
merited in the circumstances, and that the sum offered was fair.
I appreciate Mr M feels disappointed by the response to his claim. The relevant rules 
say insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and not unreasonably reject a 
claim. In all the circumstances I dont find that it was unreasonable of AXA to reject 
Mr Ms claim on the evidence he provided. But I agree that the claim wasnt handled 
promptly and that compensation is due for the poor service Mr M experienced.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint that his claim was declined.
AXA Insurance UK Plc has made an offer to pay Mr M £50 in compensation. It should 
now pay Mr M this sum if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman