DRN-4009956
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds decision to only cover part of 
their claim. 
This complaint was brought by Mr and Mrs B, but Ill refer to submissions as being brought 
by Mrs B as this was her claim.
What happened
Mrs B has private medical insurance with AXA. She had cataracts surgery in March 2022 
and claimed on her policy for her treatment. Mrs B said AXA only covered part of her claim. 
It covered the specialists costs in full, but only 60% of the hospitals costs. Mrs B would like 
AXA to cover the full amount as she said the hospital was listed in AXAs approved hospital 
network. 
AXA said that wasnt the case. It said the hospital where she had treatment is one thats part 
of its network, but not for the treatment she had. AXA said it told Mr and Mrs B about this on 
three separate occasions prior to her surgery and that it even provided her a closer 
alternative hospital where she could be treated. AXA said Mrs B was made aware itd only 
cover 60% of the hospital fees if she were to remain under the care of that hospital and that 
she went ahead with treatment knowing that risk. 
Our investigator agreed that AXA hadnt made a mistake. She highlighted the terms which 
also explain the 60% rule and that Mrs B, therefore is liable to pay the remaining 40% 
hospital costs. 
Mrs B disagreed. She said the hospital told her AXA had previously paid for treatment for 
other consumers and so it should look to do the same for her. And so, its now for me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for this are effectively the same as 
those already explained by our investigator. The hospital where Mrs B was treated, although 
recognised by AXA as being part of its approved network, wasnt authorised to carry out the 
treatment and receive payment in full. Im satisfied Mrs B was made aware of this and so I 
dont think AXA has made a mistake here. Ill explain why. 
AXA must not reject a claim unfairly. I dont think it did because Im satisfied it provided all 
the correct information to Mrs B ahead of her operation. AXA offers several different types of 
policy, depending on several different factors. And so, its policies are unique to the policy 
holder. Thats to say that another one of AXAs consumers may have been covered in full for 
the treatment at Mrs Bs chosen hospital. But in this case, Mrs Bs policy didnt cover her in 
full for her treatment at that hospital. 
Ive seen the hospital list provided by Mrs B that shows her preferred choice is covered. AXA 
has disputed the accuracy of this information as its unable to ascertain where Mrs B got this 
information from. It said the correct way to obtain the list of approved hospitals and the 
treatment on offer is to access this via the consumer portal as this information is specific to 
the policy she has. In any event, Im not persuaded by Mrs Bs testimony that she was 
unclear, or that shed been misled into thinking her preferred hospital was covered by the 
hospital list shes provided, because Im satisfied AXA made it clear that itd only cover 60% 
of her preferred hospitals costs. I say that because there were three separate conversations 
where she was given this information. 
I also note a closer hospital was identified by AXA where the fees wouldve been paid in full. 
Mrs B was told this on 9 March, well before her treatment had taken place. Mrs B actually 
said shed prefer the new suggestion as it was closer to her home. I should also highlight the 
policy terms are clear about what will happen should Mrs B seek treatment at a hospital that 
wasnt covered in full;
3.8 Paying the places where youre treated - cover for all members
Where can I have treatment?
If your treatment is covered by your membership, we will pay your hospital fees in full. This is 
so long as a specialist is overseeing your treatment, and you use one of the following listed 
in our Directory of Hospitals:
a hospital
a day-patient unit If your treatment is covered by the plan, but you have the treatment in a 
facility
not listed in the Directory of Hospitals, well pay 60% of the charges from that facility as long 
as they charge up to the normal rates published and charged by that facility. You will be 
responsible for paying the remaining charges
And so, given the clarity of the policy terms and the conversations Mrs B had with AXA prior 
to treatment, I dont consider AXA to have made a mistake here, or to have been unclear 
about only paying 60% of her hospital fees. Therefore, Im satisfied AXA handled her claim 
fairly. 
Mrs B said shes unclear how much she has to pay the hospital. She understands its 40% of 
the remaining costs, but its not something I can answer as part of the final decision. I think 
the treating hospital should be able to give further guidance about how much is outstanding.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman