DRN-2194955
The complaint
Miss B complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund her for £800 of 
transactions which Miss B said she hadnt made.
What happened
On 12 May 2020, online banking transfers totalling £800 were made from Miss Bs Barclays 
account. A new payee had been set up using Miss Bs debit card details, and three 
payments made: 
- £200 at 5.51pm to an account at another bank
- £300 at 6.05pm to the same account
- £3000 at 6.33pm to the same account.
On 13 May, Miss B phoned Barclays. She said shed logged on to her account through her 
online banking app, and had been logged out.  When she logged in again, shed seen the 
three transactions, which she said she hadnt made. She wanted a refund.
Barclays investigated, and on 15 May it refused Miss Bs fraud claim. Miss B complained, 
and Barclays issued its final response on 2 June. This letter said that it had refused the claim 
because the device used to make the transactions had matched the device consistently 
used for previous genuine transactions.   
Miss B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She told our investigator that she 
hadnt changed her mobile in the last two years, and normally accessed the app on her 
phone with a password. Miss B said shed saved her online banking details on her mobile 
phone, but that needed a password to unlock it and no-one else knew any of her security 
details.
Miss B said she lived at home with her parents, and told the investigator the name of the 
home broadband provider. She also told the investigator that shed never lost her bank card. 
And she was concerned that Barclays hadnt contacted the bank to which the payments had 
been sent, in order to recover her money.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. She said that Miss Bs online banking log-
in details had been used to authenticate the payments. And setting up a new payee also 
needed the associated debit card, and Miss Bs debit card had been used. Miss B had told 
us that both her mobile, and the mobile app, needed a password which Miss B had said no-
one else knew. The transactions had been carried out using Miss Bs registered mobile 
device, accessing the online app using Touch IT, which is fingerprint or face ID, and a 
passcode. So the person who authorised the transactions was a registered user of Miss Bs 
phone and app.
 
And the investigator also pointed out that the IP address used for the transactions was at a 
location in Miss Bs home address and used the internet provider Miss B had told us they 
used.
So the investigator considered that Miss B had authorised the transactions herself.
Miss B didnt agree. She said she wasnt pleased. She said she thought someone had done 
it by hacking into her phone, and she wanted us to look at it more and see what other 
possibilities there were.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations which apply to Miss Bs complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Barclays) must show the payment 
was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Barclays has supplied electronic 
records which show that the payments were authenticated. 
As the payments were authenticated, Ive gone on to look at whether Miss B authorised the 
payments.
Whoever carried out the disputed transactions on Miss Bs account used an IP address 
which was from the internet provider which Miss B said she and her parents used in their 
home, and it was an IP address based in the town where Miss B lived. And Ive also seen 
from the records that previous undisputed transactions on Miss Bs account were made from 
that IP address.
And whoever made the transactions would have had to set up the new payee on Miss Bs 
account. To do that, theyd have needed her debit card details, including the 16 digit card 
number, expiry date, and three digit code on the back. Miss B hadnt reported the card lost, 
and she told Barclays, and this service, that she had the card in her possession.
Miss Bs Barclays Mobile Banking (BMB) device ID was used to make the transactions. This 
has a long unique number and was linked to the mobile phone number. Both the device ID, 
and the mobile number, had been registered to Miss Bs account for a considerable time, 
and had often been used for undisputed payments and logins.
Access to the BMB app was through Touch ID  in other words fingerprint or face ID. This 
meant it would only work if the person accessing the app had previously been registered as 
an authorised user. The person who accessed the app on 12 May passed all of these 
checks.
So whoever carried out the disputed transactions would have had:
- access to Miss Bs registered phone and the ability to pass the fingerprint or face ID; 
and
- access to Miss Bs bank card; and
- knowledge of all Miss Bs security details, for both her phone and the online banking 
app; and 
- access to her home broadband.
In her response to the investigators view, Miss B said that she thought someone had carried 
out the transactions without her consent by hacking into her phone. But as Ive set out 
above, there were many things a fraudster would have needed in order to make these 
transactions, not just access to Miss Bs phone. Theyd have needed access to Miss Bs 
bank card which she said she still had in her possession, knowledge of all her security 
details, and access to her bank card. The technology behind payments is sophisticated and users may not always be aware of the 
security behind the scenes, which can prove what happened. Ive seen the records which 
show that the correct details were entered. These records also show that the technical 
details were the same as those used for other payments which Miss B had made and which 
she didnt dispute. 
Having taken all these factors into account, I consider its most likely that Miss B carried out 
the transactions herself. 
Finally, Ive also seen evidence that Barclays did contact the bank which received the 
payments, and received a reply on 20 May saying there were no funds available. But in any 
case, by that time Barclays had concluded that Miss B had carried out the transactions 
herself. So the money wouldnt have been returned to Miss B even if there had still been 
funds in the recipient account with the other bank.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman