DRN-2596567
The complaint
Mr H complains that MBNA Ltd (MBNA) were irresponsible in approving his application for a 
credit card.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr H applied for and obtained a credit card with MBNA. He was given a 
£1,500 credit limit. He has said that at that time he had a compulsive gambling problem and 
large debts which included short term payday loans. He feels that the credit card was 
unsuitable and put him in further debt.
MBNA said it correctly assessed his application based on the information Mr H provided and 
with information it obtained from Credit Reference Agencies (CRA). It thought that it had 
appropriately considered both the approval of the application, and the credit limit initially 
granted. As such it didnt believe it had acted unfairly or that it had been irresponsible.
Mr H was unhappy with MBNAs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. One of our investigators looked into the complaint but 
didnt think MBNA had done anything wrong. Mr H didnt agree and asked for the complaint 
to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Hs complaint. 
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I consider 
whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
that their borrower would be able to make repayments in a sustainable way. And if 
reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I think about whether the credit 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. I also consider if the lending decision 
was fair and if the lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance at the time Mr H took out his credit card in 
2017 can be found in the FCA handbook at the section marked [CONC 5.2]. This says that 
before making a regulated credit agreement (as was the case here) a business such as 
MBNA was required to undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness of its customer. 
Further, the assessment had to be based on sufficient information from the customer where 
appropriate and a credit reference agency, where necessary.
CONC 5.2.4(2) provided that a business should consider what is appropriate taking into 
account the type and amount of the credit and the risks to the customer of the credit not 
being sustainable. And CONC 5.2.4(3) gives an indication of what a lender might (my 
emphasis) look at in its creditworthiness assessment depending on the circumstances, 
which could include some or all of the following: -
its record of previous dealings; 
evidence of income; 
evidence of expenditure; 
a credit score; 
a credit reference agency report; and 
information provided by the customer.
The relevant circumstances which arise in Mr Hs case are that on his application form he 
declared his annual income to be £26,500. MBNA carried out a credit search at the time, 
which showed Mr H had personal loans and debts of about £14,000. He also had a credit 
card with a balance of about £310. The credit search showed Mr H didnt have any payday 
loans at that time as he subsequently thought. 
It is true that Mr H did obtain further credit after he applied to MBNA for his credit card, but 
this cant have any bearing on MBNAs decision whether or not to lend to him since it post-
dates that point in time.
MBNA has said that there was nothing revealed in Mr Hs credit check which could have 
alerted it to the fact that granting Mr H £1,500 in credit might be unaffordable to him. And 
bearing in mind that the amount of credit was modest, Im satisfied that there werent any 
other reasonably proportionate checks MBNA could have carried out. 
Ive checked to see whether MBNA was aware that Mr H had a gambling problem but there 
is no evidence that it was. So, as Mr H didnt tell them about his gambling problem it couldnt 
have known. 
I accept that Mr Hs financial position may well have been worse than the credit check 
showed or worse than the information he disclosed to MBNA revealed at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told MBNA this. But MBNA was entitled reasonably 
entitled to rely on the information from Mr H and the credit check it carried out. Given there 
wasnt any adverse information shown on the credit check, and the amount of credit being 
advanced was relatively low, I think MBNAs checks went far enough. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman