DRN-3006791
The complaint
Miss D says Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss D took out a 24-month loan for £2000 in April 2016. The monthly repayment was
£202.32 and the total repayable was £4855.68.
Miss D says the loan was not affordable for her and the lender relied on the information she
gave on her application form rather than checking it independently.
Our investigator upheld the complaint saying 118 118 Money should have declined the
application as it knew from its checks Miss D had not been consistent in her application and
her existing credit commitments were higher than she declared.
118 118 Money disagreed saying Miss D was taking out the loan to consolidate some of her
existing debts so it was reasonable that she would not include those repayments as ongoing
expenses on her application.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator so I issued a provisional decision (an 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision). I asked both parties to respond with any 
comments or new evidence by 18 August 2021.   
Extract from my provisional decision
I can see 118 118 Money asked for some information from Miss D before it approved the
loan. It asked for details of her monthly income, living expenses, any card or loan payments
due and her employment and residential status. It checked her income using a third-party
verification service. It asked about the purpose of the loan, which was debt consolidation.
It also checked Miss Ds credit file to understand her existing credit commitments. This
showed, amongst other things, that Miss D had one loan account in arrears and had been
using her overdraft consistently for the last year. Im not saying these are reasons in
themselves to decline an application, but I think they show Miss D might be having problems
managing her money. So in these circumstances I dont think that 118 118 Moneys checks
were proportionate. I think it needed to take further steps to ensure it understood Miss Ds
actual income and expenditure to get the assurance it needed that she could sustainably
repay the loan over its 24-month term.
As proportionate checks werent completed, I have to consider what the further checks
wouldve shown. Our service has asked for Miss D to provide further information such as
copies of her bank statements, however she hasnt been able to do so. She has explained
the account has since been closed, but it is usually possible to get statements for closed
accounts. So, in the absence of any other information Ive based my findings on the
information we have on file, including the information Miss D provided at the point of
applying for the loan. Our adjudicator concluded that as the lender knew Miss Ds card
repayments were higher than she declared it shouldve declined her application. But I think
118 118 Moneys point that as the loan was for debt consolidation her ongoing card
repayments costs would be lower is fair and reasonable.
Having looked at the information Miss D provided and the results of the credit search, Im not
persuaded there is enough information to suggest that the loan was unaffordable.
The credit search which was obtained at the time, whilst showing one loan in arrears and an
overdrawn balance on her current account, indicates the rest of Miss Ds credit was up-to-
date and she was not carrying a high level of debt - £3565 in total. She wasnt using all the
credit available to her with her credit utilisation ratio at 62%, and there had only been an £86
increase in her total debt level over the previous 12 months. I can see she had historically
relied quite heavily on payday loans, but this was some years ago, and they were all settled.
There isnt any indication that the monthly amount wasnt affordable to Miss D based on the
income and expenditure assessment she submitted. And in the absence of such information
which can demonstrate this wasnt the case, I cant currently fairly conclude the loan was
unaffordable for her.
I appreciate Miss D will be disappointed with this provisional outcome, but as Ive seen no
information which demonstrates the loan was unaffordable I cant say the lender ought to
have made a different decision had it carried out better checks. On that basis, Im currently
satisfied this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Both parties responded to the provisional decision. Neither party sent in any new 
information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website
and Ive followed it here.
As neither party submitted any new information (Miss D confirmed she still did not have 
copies of her bank statements) it follows I have no grounds to change the findings or 
conclusion I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman