DRN-3678717
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) held Mr I 
responsible for a collision he was involved in, and cancelled their cover under their motor 
insurance policy. 
I will refer to Mr I in my decision as he has been dealing with the complaint.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr I was driving down a country lane. He says he felt threatened when a third 
party approached him driving aggressively from behind at high speed. He says the third-
party collided with his car causing him to swerve, which lead to another impact. Mr I says the 
incident happened very quickly and he was afraid he would be rammed off the road if the 
other car came alongside him.
Admiral says the third party dashcam footage shows Mr I sped up as the third-party tried to 
overtake and then swerved into the other lane. The reverse dashcam shows Mr I then 
slowed, performed a U-turn, and drove away. It says this is at odds with the version of 
events he provided over the phone. 
Admiral says Mr I shouldve maintained his speed or slowed down to allow the third-party to 
overtake. It says there was no mention from Mr I initially of an impact prior to him swerving 
into the right-hand lane. Admiral decided to cancel the policy relying on the policy term that 
requires Mr I to protect his vehicle from loss or damage. 
Mr I didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint, He thought Admiral had investigated the claim fairly and relied on its 
terms and conditions when holding Mr I responsible for the collision and when cancelling the 
policy. 
Mr I says the dashcam footage has been edited and doesnt show what happened prior to 
the third-party overtaking, which is important to understand why he acted as he did. He 
asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Is complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
My role here is to consider whether Admiral handled Mr Is claim in a fair and reasonable 
manner. It isnt to decide who was at fault for the accident. A decision about who is 
responsible for an accident is best made by a court of law.
Mr I doesnt think Admiral acted fairly by accepting he was liable for the accident he was 
involved in. I have read his policy terms to understand what is expected here. The terms, 
under the section entitled, General Conditions of your cover say:
We are entitled to:
conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
take legal action over any claim in your name or the name of any person insured on 
the policy for our own benefit
admit negligence for any accident or claim on your behalf
investigate your claim and exchange information with other parties involved with the 
accident or claim. However, we will treat your information carefully and only reveal it 
in cases where we believe it is necessary.
This means that its for Admiral to decide how to it wants to deal with Mr Is claim and 
whether to accept liability or not. Most motor insurance policies contain this term. But we still 
expect any decision on liability to be based on the facts and evidence. 
I can see that Admiral considered the testimony provided by Mr I when reviewing the claim. 
As well as the account provided by the third party, the dashcam footage, and the damage 
that was caused during the collision. It explains there is no independent evidence to support 
Mr Is version of events. And that the dashcam footage indicates Mr Is driving was contrary 
to what the highway code says should happen when a vehicle is overtaking. 
Ive watched the video provided by the third-party, which shows the vehicle already in the 
right-hand lane approaching Mr Is car from the rear. As the third-party vehicle is alongside 
Mr Is car, Mr I then increases speed and edges ahead of the overtaking vehicle. He then 
moves into the lane the third-party is using to overtake, where it appears a collision occurred 
between the drivers side of Mr Is car and the passenger side of the third-partys car. 
The footage then switches to the rear camera. It shows the third-party passing Mr Is car and 
then pulling over to the left-hand side of the road. Mr I slows down, performs a U-turn and 
drives away, whilst the third-party comes to a stop further down the road. 
I acknowledge that the footage starts at the beginning of the overtaking manoeuvre. This 
doesnt show what happened prior to this. Mr I explains how he felt threatened by how the 
other car was being driven, and feared he would be rammed off the road if the car pulled 
alongside. He also says there was another collision prior to the overtake that caused his car 
to swerve. 
I understand that it took some time for the third-party to provide the dashcam footage to 
Admiral. However, this isnt something it had any control over. Nor could it influence how 
much of the footage was provided. I understand Mr Is concerns about this. But I dont think 
this means the footage doesnt provide clear evidence of what happened. 
Having considered the footage carefully, the collision occurred when Mr I swerved into the 
lane of the overtaking vehicle. This is after he had initially sped up when being overtaken. I 
acknowledge what Mr I has said. But its clear from the footage that it was Mr I pulling into 
the right hand side of the road that resulted in the collision. There is no other contact 
between the two cars observed within the video. 
Admiral says Mr I didnt follow the Highway Code when he was being overtaken. The 
Highway Code says:Being overtaken. If a driver is trying to overtake you, maintain a steady course and speed, 
slowing down if necessary to let the vehicle pass. Never obstruct drivers who wish to pass. 
Speeding up or driving unpredictably while someone is overtaking you is dangerous. Drop 
back to maintain a two-second gap if someone overtakes and pulls into the gap in front of 
you.  
Its clear in the dashcam footage that Mr I sped up when being overtaken. He also changed 
course by swerving into the lane being used by the third-party to overtake. I think its 
reasonable for Admiral to refer to the highway code when considering who was to blame for 
the collision. Based on what I have seen it fairly concluded Mr I hadnt been following the 
Highway Code when accelerating and pulling into the right-hand side of the road whilst the 
third-party was overtaking. 
Ive thought about Mr Is comments that there was another collision before the overtaking 
manoeuvre, and that he felt threatened by the third-partys driving. However, Admiral says 
Mr I didnt mention an initial collision when he reported the incident over the phone in March 
2021. It says this wasnt mentioned by him until some months later in January 2022. Admiral 
also says Mr I told it he stopped at the scene and the other driver drove off. It says this isnt 
accurate as Mr I can be seen performing a U-turn and driving away in the dashcam footage, 
whilst the third-party came to a stop. 
The records supplied, support Admirals argument that Mr I didnt tell it about another 
collision. It also shows that his account of events wasnt accurate as it was Mr I that drove 
away, although he told Admiral that, TP hasovertook us and then sped off without 
stopping. 
Having considered this, I think the dashcam footage is clear that Mr I chose to speed up and 
then swerve into the third-parties car as it was overtaking. Mr I clearly has strong views 
about why he acted in the way he did. But based on the video footage of what happened, I 
havent seen evidence that shows Mr I had no choice but to act in the way he did. Because 
of this I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to consider Mr I at fault here. 
I note Mr Is comments that the third-party driver was travelling at excessive speed. In its 
complaint response Admiral says the dashcam footage doesnt show the speed the vehicle 
was driving at. Although I dont dispute what Mr I says, I dont think there is evidence that 
shows the speed the third-party was travelling at, or that this impacts on Admirals view of Mr 
Is actions during the overtaking manoeuvre 
Mr I also says that its unfair for Admiral to cancel the policy. He says this will have a 
significant impact on his insurance premiums.
In its complaint response, Admiral refers to the, General Conditions section of its policy 
terms that say:
3. Care of your vehicle
You or any person covered by the policy must:
protect your car from loss or damage
If an incident happens, and you or any person covered by this policy fails to protect your car 
from loss or damage through:
the inappropriate conduct of the driver;No cover under the policy will be provided and instead our responsibility will be restricted to 
meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law.
 
Admiral says it wont consider any claim for damage to Mr Is car and that it may contact him 
regarding reimbursement of any costs relating to a third-party claim. 
This incident must have been very upsetting for Mr I. Im sorry that his insurance policy has 
been cancelled and that he is therefore liable for the damage to his car, and potentially for 
any costs Admiral incurs in responding to the third-partys claim. But I dont think its treated 
him unfairly in relying on the terms of its policy when making this decision. 
In summary, I think Admiral behaved reasonably when investigating the claim and acted 
fairly when relying on its policy terms to avoid the policy and decline Mr Is claim. I realise 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr I but Im not persuaded to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman