DRN-3246547
The complaint
Mr W complains that when Domestic and General Insurance Plc replaced his cooker, as it 
couldnt be repaired, he was charged an installation fee of £72. He says this wasnt 
explained to him when he agreed to the replacement.
What happened
Mr W had insurance cover for his cooker with D&G. If his cooker suffered a mechanical or 
electrical breakdown after the manufacturers guarantee expired, the policy covered him for 
the cost of repairs or replacement.
In July 2021 his cooker developed a fault and he made a claim on his policy. D&G sent out 
an engineer on 13 July 2021 and a replacement part was ordered. But a gas safe engineer 
was needed, as a gas hose was preventing them from moving an access panel to complete 
the repair. The next date a gas safe engineer was available in Mr Ws area was 4 August 
2021. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this so D&G said he could arrange the repair himself and send them 
the invoice. Mr W didnt want to do this and wanted the cooker replaced. D& G agreed to 
write off his cooker and provide a replacement, as the repair date of 4 August 2021 was 
outside their service standards. 
Mr W accepted this but says he wasnt aware hed be charged an installation fee, and if hed 
told there was a fee, hed have waited for his cooker to be repaired.
Mr W called D&G on 19 July 2021 and said that hed received details of the resolution, but 
this included an installation charge which he wasnt happy about. He said he should have 
been made aware of the charge before the resolution was agreed. At this point he hadnt put 
through the order for his cooker online, and said hed do this, but he wanted to complain 
about the charge. 
The call handler said shed raise a complaint for him, but she couldnt do anything about the 
fee, as his policy clearly states that installation charges arent covered. She also said that 
when items are written off, she makes a point of reminding customers that installation 
charges arent covered.
D&G didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint as they said his policy doesnt cover installation fees.
He then complained to our service. Our investigator felt it was reasonable for D&G to charge 
the installation fee as the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy say that this isnt covered. 
And she said Mr W was aware of the charge before he put through the online order for the 
new cooker. 
Mr W responded saying that D&G had agreed to provide a replacement cooker, and he 
ordered it online, as theyd told him to, before he was made aware that hed have to pay an 
installation fee. And he thinks its unfair that D&G havent been told to refund the fee, when 
he was paying for a policy to cover his cooker and hes received no service from them
The case has now come to me for decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy with D&G include list of exclusions. These are 
highlighted on his Insurance Product Information Document. Under the heading What is not 
insured? theres a list of what the policy doesnt cover, and this includes installation and 
disposal charges. This is clearly set out and isnt hidden in small print as Mr W suggested 
when he called D&G to complain about the installation charge.
Its clear from the call Mr W had with D&G on 19 July 2021 that he was aware of the 
installation charge before he ordered his replacement cooker. He was calling to complain 
about the charge which hed been told of as part of the agreed resolution. During the call he 
was told that D&G couldnt do anything about the charge, as it wasnt covered by his policy. 
But he went ahead and ordered his new cooker, knowing that an installation charge was 
payable.
I think it would have been better if D&G had reminded Mr W that installation charges werent 
covered while a resolution was being discussed. But they did tell him of the charge before he 
accepted the resolution by ordering his new cooker. And while I accept, he wasnt happy 
once he was aware of the installation charge, he could have discussed the resolution further 
with D&G before completing his order. 
I dont think its fair for Mr W to say he received no service from D&G. They sent out an 
engineer to repair his cooker, when he notified them there was a fault. And when a repair 
couldnt be completed with their agreed service standards, they agreed to write off his 
cooker and provide a replacement, which was fitted promptly.
Im persuaded that D&G dealt with Mr Ws claim in a way that is fair and reasonable, so I 
wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about 
Domestic & General Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman