DRN-1700799
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Santander UK Plc (Santander) treated them unfairly when it only 
considered 50% of their income when assessing a request for additional borrowing on their 
mortgage.
What happened
On 3 June 2019, Mr and Mrs D asked Santander for an additional £200,000 on their Flexible 
Offset mortgage. Mr and Mrs D intended to purchase two further properties, and either rent 
them out or renovate them.
Mr and Mrs D told Santander they were both self-employed foster carers. Prior to an 
application being made, Santander considered the income disclosed, including the foster 
care income, rental income and child maintenance Mr and Mrs D received. Santander 
explained to Mr and Mrs D that the maximum additional amount it would lend was £21,000. 
Santander said this was because its lending policy only allows 50% of foster carer income to 
be used in affordability calculations because such income is not guaranteed.
Mr and Mrs D complained to Santander that its decision to treat the foster care income this 
way was discriminatory to their chosen profession, and that Santander hadnt considered 
their existing relationship.
Mr and Mrs D complained to Santander and it provided a final response on 5 July 2019. 
Santander said it told Mr and Mrs D it could only use 50% of their non-guaranteed income in 
its affordability calculations. Santander explained to Mr and Mrs D it didnt want to take the 
additional risk of using 100% of a non-guaranteed income into account if a customer was 
looking to increase borrowing.
The final response letter to Mr and Mrs D explained that Santander didnt advise on buy-to-
let mortgages, but would consider applications through an intermediary, and suggested this 
may be an alternative option.
Mr and Mrs D raised their complaint with this office, and after reviewing the evidence, the 
investigator thought that Santander had done nothing wrong.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigator. They felt aggrieved that Santander only 
allows 50% of foster care income, and that if other self-employed people have 100% of their 
income allowed, this discriminates against foster carers and that Santander treated them 
unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D feel Santander discriminated against them as foster carers.  But 
with a mortgage loan, its generally for a lender to decide for itself what its lending policy is  
for example, how much it will lend; how much of a borrowers income it will consider. There 
are certain regulations, such as the Financial Conduct Authoritys Mortgage Conduct of 
Business (MCOB) rules that relate to responsible lending. But they dont prevent a lender 
from limiting the income it will consider when considering a mortgage loan. Thats really a 
matter for the lender to exercise its own commercial judgement.
Ive considered whether the exercise of Santanders judgement has resulted in unfairness to 
Mr and Mrs D; my role here isnt to substitute my judgement for that of the bank. In this case, 
Santander applied its own lending rules to Mr and Mrs D. 
Ive looked at the specific section of Santanders Mortgage Lending Policy Guidance that 
deals with foster carer income and how it should be treated. I cannot supply a copy of this to 
Mr and Mrs D, as it is commercially sensitive. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D feel that Santander may have discriminated against them, 
and they consider Santander may allow 100% of income from other self-employed 
borrowers. However, Santanders Mortgage Lending Policy Guidance has a specific section 
that deals with foster carer income, as opposed to other self-employed income. Santander 
has assessed that income from foster carers is to be limited to 50% as it reflects the banks 
view of the risk that this income is not guaranteed. 
Mr and Mrs D say their foster care income is unlikely to change over the coming years. They 
say there is a significant shortage of foster carers and their income is therefore more certain 
than other self-employed people. I have considered Mr and Mrs Ds comments, but even if 
what they say is right, that doesnt compel Santander to lend to them. Its not for me to tell 
Santander that it should accept 100% of Mr and Mrs Ds foster carer income (or any other 
percentage) on the basis that Mr and Mrs D have a different view over that risk. And I am not 
persuaded what Mr and Mrs D have said is enough to for me to consider Santander has 
treated them unfairly. Instead, in my opinion, Santander reasonably relied on its own 
Mortgage Lending Policy Guidelines that reflected the risk it had commercially assessed in 
relation to this income type.
Overall, in all the circumstances of this case, I am satisfied that Santander fairly applied its 
Mortgage Lending Policy Guidance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I will not be asking Santander UK Plc to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman