DRN-2608272
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the closure of her account by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
Mrs K had a USD currency account with HSBC. HSBC made a decision to close accounts of 
this type. In January 2018, it was closed. The balance was converted to GBP and a cheque 
for £80,344.83 was sent to her address overseas. She had moved. Mrs K was traced, and 
the cheque was sent to her in September 2019.
Mrs K complained that she should have received more money than she did  due to the 
exchange rate being used to convert her USD account to GBP.
HSBC said that the balance of USD113,519.21 was converted at a rate of 1.4129  giving a 
payment amount of £80,344.83. The rate used was that operating when the account was 
closed on 17 January 2018. HSBC had taken a decision to not offer foreign currency 
accounts to personal customers.
Mrs K brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
She found that HSBC had made a commercial decision to not offer currency accounts 
anymore. Mrs Ks account had therefore been closed. HSBCs letter  sent to Mrs K in 
November 2017  advised her that HSBC would convert the balance to GBP and send a 
cheque to her. It was unfortunate that there had been a time lag because the cheque had 
been sent to her old address  it had taken until September 2019 to sort things out.
Mrs K asked that her complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at what happened here and thought about Mrs Ks complaint. She (and her 
representatives) have told us that HSBC sent her approximately USD14,000 less than she 
shouldve had. This appears to be because HSBC converted the USD balance into GBP 
when the account was closed. 
HSBCs decision to close foreign currency accounts was a commercial decision that they 
were entitled to take  so Im not going to comment on that.
Consistent with their policy, HSBC wrote to Mrs K in November 2017 to advise her that her 
account would be closed. So, she was given notice of what HSBC intended to do. The letter 
said that the balance would be converted into GBP as it said, Well convert the money in 
any currency account into sterling using the HSBC Exchange Rate at the time before we 
return it to you.  I have looked at Mrs K s statements. They show there was a balance of 
USD113,519.21 on 17 January 2018  when her account was closed. This was converted 
into GBP at a rate of 1.4129 - £80,344.83. 
So, I think Mrs Ks complaint is that she lost out on the exchange rate at that time. Banks, 
including HSBC, are free to set their own exchange rates  and these change all the time. 
But, Mrs K would have been given the rate that was operating on the day the account was 
closed  and therefore not been disadvantaged by it. So, I think HSBC acted reasonably 
here.
We also looked at Mrs Ks bank statements to see if there was any other reason that could 
help Mrs K understand what had happened on her account before it was closed. I can see 
that the account had very few transactions going through it  but there was a credit of 
USD14,888.17 paid into the account on 28 March 2016  so, if that is the reason for Mrs Ks 
concerns, I hope that will put her mind at rest.
So, my decision is that HSBC acted fairly and reasonably here, and I wont be asking them 
to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman