DRN-4251697
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about the price quoted by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to renew 
their home insurance policy. 
Mrs S has acted as the main representative during the complaint process. So, for ease of 
reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mr S or Mrs S as 
Mrs S throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mrs S says she received her renewal invite which quoted a price 30% higher than what 
shed paid the previous year, so she called the broker. Mrs S queried the price increase and 
the broker then looked at a policy offering different cover, but UKI quoted a price which was 
still higher than what shed paid the previous year. Mrs S then obtained an online quote from 
UKI as a new business customer and this produced a much cheaper price for the same 
cover. Mrs S then called again to discuss the online quote shed received and UKI then 
quoted a different price which was still higher than the online quote. So, Mrs S complained. 
UKI responded and explained the quote Mrs S obtained online was from a different brand to 
the one being offered by them. They also explained it wasnt a like for like policy as they 
included different underwriting information.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S and Mrs S. He thought UKI hadnt treated Mr S 
and Mrs S unfairly in relation to the pricing. Mrs S disagreed so the matter has come to me 
for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr S and Mrs S will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I think its important to firstly make clear the role of various parties in insurance. When taking 
out insurance, a customer will often communicate with an insurance intermediary who is 
responsible for arranging, selling and administering the policy  often this will be a broker. 
The insurer is the business which underwrites the policy and decides on a price. In this case, 
thats UKI. So, while I can see Mrs Ss contact was primarily with the broker, and she has 
concerns about the information she was given, my decision here focusses only on the 
actions of UKI as the insurer. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I understand Mrs S paid £226.24 for her 2022 policy, and she was then quoted £306.88 for 
her 2023 renewal - which was for a home plus cover policy. Mrs S then called the broker to 
raise a query about the price and the call handler explained this was the best price they 
could offer. Mrs S queried what UKI can do to bring the price down and the call handler 
explained Mrs S is on a home plus cover policy, but they can look into a home standard 
cover policy. The call handler then provided a quote for a home standard cover policy at 
£287.84  the call handler also discussed how this cover provided a reduced level of cover 
compared to a home plus cover policy. Mrs S then obtained an online quote for £163.52 for 
a new business home standard cover policy and discussed this with the renewals team. The 
call handler then brought up the details for this online quote and then quoted a renewal price 
of £220.64.  
UKI have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how       
Mrs Ss price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with her because its 
commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the price she has 
been quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other 
UKI customers in Mrs Ss position will have been charged a lower premium. 
As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about UKIs risk model, but I can see a 
factor which has led to the increase relates to claims inflation  and this being affected by 
external factors which have led to an increase in claim costs incurred by UKI. UKI have 
described how they refreshed their rating system to more accurately reflect the expected 
costs they underwrite and how this led to Mrs Ss premium increasing at renewal. They have 
explained this was a change across all their policies as they changed their approach. So in 
short, they have treated all customers the same with the change and Mrs S hasnt been 
treated differently or unfairly when they chose to change their approach. 
  
I understand Mrs S is concerned that she was able to obtain a cheaper quote online as a 
new business customer in comparison to her renewal quote  and she feels this goes 
against pricing rules. The new rules Mrs S refers to here relate to general insurance pricing 
introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in January 2022. They apply to motor 
and buildings insurance only and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules 
when offering renewals. The rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals generated 
from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mrs S was offered her renewal by UKI, so 
they did need to follow these at the time. I understand therefore why Mrs S is concerned as 
she feels UKI arent following these rules which prevent insurers from charging a renewing 
customer more than a new customer. 
 
While I accept there is a difference in price between the renewal quotes provided by UKI and 
the quote Mrs S obtained online, I think its important to note that these arent like for like 
polices. UKI have provided information which shows the original quote for £306.88 was for a 
policy providing a higher level of cover than the policy for which they quoted a price of 
£287.84. And while the £287.84 quote was for a home standard cover policy  which is the 
same cover Mrs S obtained a new business quote for  there are differences between these 
two policies. Firstly, the quote obtained by Mrs S is for a policy being offered by a different brand 
compared to the one which was offered by UKI. And, as mentioned above, the FCA accepts 
that policies bought through different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. 
Secondly, the details used to obtain the online quote differed to the details used by UKI 
when quoting a price of £287.84  in particular, the online quote contained a higher excess 
and lower personal possessions limit. These are factors which will affect the price of 
insurance. When the call handler matched these details on the renewal quote, the price then 
came down to £220.64. While I accept this is still higher than the new business quote 
obtained by Mrs S, its important to note these two quotes relate to a different brand and 
were obtained using different sales channels. So, I cant say UKI have failed to offer Mrs S 
an ENBP or otherwise treated Mrs S unfairly.      
I understand Mrs S is concerned about a claim showing on her policy and the affect this has 
had on her premium. Ive listened to a call recording where Mrs S discusses this with a call 
handler. They explain there are two claims showing on Mrs Ss policy, one from 2020 which 
is showing as information only, with no claim being made. And theres another record 
relating to 2021 which is showing as closed as Mrs S didnt wish to go ahead with a claim. I 
can see UKI say this didnt have an impact on the premium. But, given the nature of the 
information showing on her policy  and neither of these notifications leading to a claim  I 
understand why Mrs S is concerned about whether this has impacted her price. 
UKI say this hasnt impacted the price and, looking at the information provided by UKI, Im 
persuaded this is the case. I say this for two reasons. Firstly, and as already mentioned 
above, Ive looked at the pricing information provided by UKI, and this shows the increase 
was down to an increase in UKIs costs to settle claims. Secondly, Mrs Ss policy schedule 
shows nine years no claims discount. Ive listened to a recording of an internal call between 
staff at the broker, and a member of the renewals team confirms how a claim wouldve 
affected the no claims discount. Given that Mrs Ss no claims discount hasnt been affected 
in this way, I dont think UKI have treated either of the notifications as a claim. 
I understand Mrs S is concerned about the customer service received during the phone calls 
with the broker and about an attempted mis-sale of a policy offering reduced cover. As 
mentioned above, my decision is only looking at the actions of UKI as the insurer. If Mrs S 
would like to raise additional complaints about the administration services provided by the 
broker, then shell need to raise these with the broker before our service is able to consider 
these. 
I note Mrs S is primarily concerned about the price increase and the difference in the quote 
provided by UKI and what she obtained online. But, I hope she feels reassured that Ive 
checked this and the price increase is down to claims inflation  which is reasonable in the 
circumstances. And while I do agree with Mrs S that she has obtained a new business quote 
online which is cheaper than the renewal quote, for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant 
say UKI have acted against the pricing rules set by the FCA. I note Mrs S says shes 
concerned UKI now appear to be offering a percentage reduction for new business 
customers and not renewing customers. I cant see that has been the case here and, in this 
decision, I can only look at the service provided to Mrs S. If Mrs S has wider concerns about 
UKIs compliance with the pricing rules, then she may wish to raise these with the FCA.    
I wish to reassure Mrs S Ive read and considered everything she has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman