DRN-3807949
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them Select and 
Silver packaged bank accounts, which were sold to them some time prior to September 
2001 and in December 2010 respectively. They also say that Lloyds mis-sold them a Club 
Lloyds bolt-on in November 2015.
They have given a number of reasons why they say they were mis-sold. These include, that 
they say they were led to believe they had to have the Select account to be able to obtain an 
overdraft. They also say that they were told their account was old-fashioned and so they 
agreed to change their account to a Silver account. 
Mr and Mrs M say that they were told to add the Club Lloyds bolt-on to their account by a 
mortgage adviser, on the basis that it would improve their chances of being accepted and 
also give them access to better interest rates on their mortgage.
What happened
In its response to the complaint, Lloyds upheld Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the sale of 
the Select account, and refunded Mr and Mrs Ms account fees, plus 8% simple interest, less 
tax. However, Lloyds didnt think that it had mis-sold the Silver packaged account or the Club 
Lloyds package.
Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators assessed the 
complaint and they didnt think that the Silver packaged account or the Club Lloyds package 
had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with this, and so the complaint was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
As Lloyds has already paid redress to Mr and Mrs M in line with what our service wouldve 
recommended had we upheld the complaint about the Select account, I will only be 
addressing their concerns about the sale of the Silver account and the Club Lloyds package.
I note that Mr and Mrs M have raised concerns about the Silver account mobile phone 
insurance. If they are unhappy with how their claim was handled, they will need to raise their 
concerns with the mobile phone insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Silver account
Mr and Mrs M say that they were sold the Silver account as the person they spoke to said 
the Select account was old fashioned. Whilst I dont know what exactly was said during the 
sale, based on what Mr and Mrs M say, it seems they agreed to upgrade their account 
because they were attracted to the features of the Silver account. And although they say 
they werent offered a fee-free account, I can see they already had a fee-free joint account 
with Lloyds. So Im satisfied that they were aware fee-free alternatives were available, and 
ultimately, I think they were aware they could say no to changing their Select account if they 
didnt want another packaged account.
The Silver account was recommended to Mr and Mrs M. This meant Lloyds had to check 
that it was right for them. 
In 2010 the Silver account cost £7.95 and provided European travel insurance, breakdown 
cover, mobile phone insurance and card protection cover. It also provided access to an 
Advantage Saver account. 
Lloyds has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs M made a claim on the mobile phone 
insurance in April 2011  so it seems that they were relying on this cover. And customer 
notes from the time indicate that a savings account they held with Lloyds was changed to 
being an Advantage Saver account  so it seems they were able to achieve a better interest 
rate on their savings account as well. So from what I have seen, it looks like Mr and Mrs M 
were able to make use of the mobile phone insurance and achieve a better rate of interest 
on the savings account that were included with the account. 
Mr and Mrs M say that the account was not suitable as they wanted increased levels of 
cover for travel insurance and the breakdown cover. However, both of the policies provided 
by the Select account included the option to upgrade the levels of cover provided, so they 
were able to change the cover to better suit their needs if they so wished. Indeed, Mr and 
Mrs M appear to have been aware of this as I can see that they did upgrade the travel 
insurance on 12 July 2011. 
Furthermore, I can see Lloyds carried out a review of Mr and Mrs Ms account on 18 October 
2012, which says:
Ref [staff name]; gave plat pack to [Mrs M] to discuss with husband as has silver ac 
and would benefit from enhanced AA cover and family travel insurance (at moment 
pays separate [breakdown provider] cover to upgrade and has just paid for family 
travel policy to Mexico next year so would def use plat benefits) also increased cost 
would be offset by saving £6 monthly fee and interest on £300 overdraft usage, will 
call back tomorrow to upgrade SLJ
So based on the above, it looks as though Lloyds did recommend they upgrade to a more 
expensive account (Platinum account) in 2012, to save Mr and Mrs M having to individually 
pay to upgrade their breakdown and travel cover. But for whatever reason, Mr and Mrs M 
chose not to do so and instead continued with the Silver account instead.
Therefore, in the circumstances, I think that Lloyds recommendation was not inappropriate. 
And ultimately I cant hold Lloyds responsible because Mr and Mrs M chose not to upgrade 
to an account that provided enhanced levels of cover as standard. 
As well as making sure the account was a good fit for Mr and Mrs M, Lloyds was also 
required to give them important information about the account, so they understood what they 
were agreeing to. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs M were given at least some information about the cost of the 
account and the benefits that it came with. Mr and Mrs M say they were informed about the 
monthly cost. And they appear to have been aware of the insurance cover provided by the 
account; were aware of how they could go about making a claim; and were also aware that 
the cover could be upgraded if needed as well.
I cant be sure if they were given all of the important information they shouldve been. But 
Ive not seen anything that makes me think they wouldve acted any differently had they 
been given more information about the account. Afterall, they agreed to upgrade to the Silver 
account knowing that fee-free alternatives existed. And when they were offered the option of 
upgrading to a more expensive packaged account to obtain enhanced levels of breakdown 
cover and travel insurance as standard, they chose to stick with the Silver account.So overall, I dont think that the Silver account was mis-sold.
Club Lloyds Package
The Club Lloyds package is a fee-paying bolt-on product, that essentially can be added to 
existing current accounts (whether they are fee-paying packaged accounts or fee-free 
current accounts). 
Mr and Mrs M say they were in the process of arranging a mortgage and were told to add 
the Club Lloyds package to their account as it would help them obtain better interest rates 
Looking at the benefits of the Club Lloyds package in November 2015, one of the benefits it 
offered was a 0.2% discount on mortgage rates (although some specific mortgage products 
were exempt). 
Lloyds has provided a copy of a mortgage offer document for Mr and Mrs M from December 
2015, and I can see that it did include a 0.2% discount on the interest rate (compared to the 
standard rate at the time). Indeed, the mortgage offer document says:
LAF979 obliges you to take out or hold a Club Lloyds current account before 
applying for this mortgage as a condition of this mortgage.
As such, Im satisfied that what Mr and Mrs M were told about the Club Lloyds package was 
correct. And looking at their bank statements, I can see that they paid enough into their 
account to get the Club Lloyds package for free anyway (the monthly fee was waived if they 
credited more than £1,500 per month into the account).
I therefore dont think that the Club Lloyds package was mis-sold.
Finally, Mr and Mrs M say that Lloyds shouldve regularly reviewed how much they were 
using the account benefits. But Lloyds was not required to do that. So I cant say Lloyds did 
anything wrong, just because this is something that Mr and Mrs M wouldve liked to have 
happened. 
In more recent years, Lloyds was required to send Mr and Mrs M annual eligibility 
statements - to remind them of the eligibility criteria for the insurance products on their Silver 
account and to check whether the benefits were still suitable for their circumstances. And 
Lloyds records show these were sent to Mr and Mrs M every April, since at least 2016.
So taking everything into account, Im unable to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to conclude that Mr and Mrs Ms Silver 
account, or the Club Lloyds package that was later added to their account, were mis-sold. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman