DRN-3592616
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC has dealt with their 
mortgage account. They are unhappy that they have been receiving arrears letters, and are 
also concerned that they are being pressurised to repay the outstanding balance on the 
mortgage.
Mr O has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letters dated 28 January 2022 and 15 June 2022. All parties have 
copies of those letters, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead 
concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, 
so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs O being 
identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In June 2004 Mr and Mrs O took out a mortgage with W, the residential lending division of 
Barclays. They borrowed approximately £93,000 - £65,200 on a capital repayment basis and 
£27,841 on an interest-only basis, over a 16-year term. This was a re-mortgage, with Mr and 
Mrs O borrowing £22,200 to repay unsecured debt. The mortgage offer explains that Mr and 
Mrs O will need a separate repayment plan, such as an endowment policy, ISA or pension 
plan to repay the interest-only part of the mortgage at the end of the term.
The mortgage came with a Mortgage Current Account (MCA) which had an initial reserve of 
£2,000. The MCA is an overdraft facility, which works like this: as capital is repaid off the 
mortgage, the overdraft limit on the MCA increases by the same amount, due to what 
Barclays calls rebalancing.  This can be spent by the borrower, through the mortgage 
current account. But its not intended to be an additional regular income stream for the 
borrower; nor should it be used to make the mortgage repayments.
The overdraft also becomes immediately repayable in full when the related mortgage 
account is repaid  either when the mortgage reaches the end of its term or if the mortgage 
is repaid sooner (for example, on sale or remortgage of the property).  The MCA operates on 
an interest-only basis. Interest is currently charged on the overdraft balance at Bank of 
England Base Rate + 4.49%, except where the mortgage is a specific offset mortgages, 
where interest is charged at the offset mortgage rate (that is not the case here).
Over the course of the mortgage, as the balance on the repayment mortgage decreased, the 
MCA reserve increased, and Mr and Mrs O had been using it. 
The mortgage term came to an end in 2020. The current outstanding balance is just over 
£21,100. The MCA reserve currently owed by Mr and Mrs O is approximately £69,000.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs O were experiencing some financial and personal difficulties. Mr O 
spoke to Barclays in October 2019, when it was explained that overpayments on the 
mortgage had resulted in a credit balance of about £2,500 that could be used towards the 
mortgage payments. Barclays said that the actual monthly payment was approximately £600 
per month (I have rounded the figures up or down for simplicitys sake). Mr and Mrs O could 
use the overpayment to cover this, but Barclays also said that the interest payment of £282 
wouldnt come out of the prepayment balance and would need to be paid separately.
This gave Mr and Mrs O four months when they didnt need to pay the £600 per month, 
theyd need to pay the £282 however. On the fifth month, theyd pay £445, and after that 
their monthly payments would resume at £600.
This covered the period November 2019 to March 2020 inclusive. But from April 2020 no 
further payments were made, and the account fell into arrears. Mr and Mrs O made 
payments to bring the account back up to date, but they were very upset at having received 
arrears letters, and about a missed payment marker on their credit files.
In May 2020 Mr O noticed the reserve limit on the MCA had been reduced by about £2,000. 
Barclays explained that, because of arrears on the mortgage after the overpayments had 
been used up, the bank adjusted the reserve limit so that total borrowing didnt exceed 
£93,000 across the mortgage and MCA.
At around the same time, Mr and Mrs O were trying to extend their mortgage term. Theyd 
spoken to StepChange, which had suggested an extended mortgage. Barclays looked at 
whether Mr and Mrs O would meet the criteria for Barclays Exceptions Lending Policy. 
However, after looking at Mr and Mrs Os income, this wasnt a viable option as it would take 
30 years to clear the mortgage balance. 
Mr and Mrs O raised their dissatisfaction with Barclays, in relation to the upset theyd been 
caused by receiving correspondence about arrears and about the problems theyd had trying 
to contact Barclays. In its final response letter, Barclays acknowledged its service could have 
been better and offered total compensation of £450 for call costs and distress and 
inconvenience. Barclays also invited Mr and Mrs O to contact its Maturity Team to see what 
assistance could be offered now that the mortgage had come to an end.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr and Mrs O referred their complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened.
In relation to the overpayments, the investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong; he was satisfied the bank had explained when the pre-payment account would run 
out, at which point Mr and Mrs O would be required to re-commence their mortgage 
payments. 
The investigator was also satisfied that Barclays hadnt acted unreasonably in reducing the 
MCA reserve, because this kept the total borrowing at the amount of the total original 
borrowing of about £93,000. He also didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong in its 
reporting of missed payments on Mr and Mrs Os credit files.
The investigator did agree that Barclays customer service had been poor, but was satisfied 
that the compensation the bank had offered of £450 was fair and reasonable.
Mr O didnt accept this. He said hed been told by Barclays in relation to overpayments that 
he wouldnt need to start making repayments until the bank contacted him. However, after 
further enquiries with Barclays, there was no record of such a call. The investigator thought 
that it was Mr Os responsibility to be aware of when repayments would recommence. The 
investigator also noted that Barclays had told Mr O in a letter sent in May 2020 about the reduction in the MCA reserve. Overall, the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his 
opinion or award any further compensation over and above the £450 offered by Barclays.
Mr O asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In a long letter dated 5 August 2022 
Mr O set out all his concerns about Barclays in great detail, highlighting what he said were 
prime examples of the extreme obfuscation and outright lies with which I had to endure from 
Barclays agents (sic).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
So although Ive noted all the very detailed points Mr O has made, both throughout his 
complaint and in his letter to me dated 5 August 2022, I wont be replying in similar detail; 
instead Ill be concentrating on giving my reasons for my decision.
I am glad to note that Barclays has accepted its customer service fell short in relation to 
communication with Mr O, where he was passed from pillar to post, dealing with various 
different departments and sometimes being left on hold for long periods. Mr O felt that his 
concerns werent being properly addressed.
However, although customer service fell short, I dont think the actual administration of the 
account was incorrect. Im satisfied Mr O was told clearly by Barclays about how the 
overpayment would be used, and how long it would last until repayments had to commence. 
Although Mr O is adamant he was told he wouldnt need to make a repayment until Barclays 
contacted him, the evidence doesnt support this.
Given this, it follows that I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in reducing the MCA 
reserve limit by £2,000 when the monthly repayments hadnt recommenced after the 
overpayments had been used up. Barclays wasnt able to increase Mr and Mrs Os overall 
borrowing above £93,000, and they had used a substantial part of the MCA reserve.
Consequently, Im unable to find that Barclays did anything wrong here, including recording 
missed payments on Mr and Mrs Os credit files. Barclays is required to report account 
conduct accurately. Because Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs O were unaware of when theyd 
need to start making their mortgage payments again, Im not persuaded there is any basis 
on which I could fairly ask Barclays to adjust any missed payment reports on the credit files.
I appreciate this has had an impact on Mr and Mrs Os ability to borrow from other lenders, 
but I am unable to hold Barclays responsible for this. Mr O tells me that hes not engaged with Barclays since the complaint has been with our service. However, from what hes told 
us, it seems Mr and Mrs O have been able to agree a new repayment plan with Barclays.
Im glad Barclays has acknowledged that its customer service fell short. Because the bank 
has accepted this, I dont need to establish whether or not an error has been made; Barclays 
has agreed that it could have done better. Overall, I think the £450 compensation Barclays 
offered for its customer service is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and 
proportionate to the errors Barclays made. I am therefore not ordering Barclays to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied the £450 
compensation offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs O to decide whether they want to accept it in 
full and final settlement of their complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman