DRN-3165999
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain about the service HSBC UK Bank Plc provided when they applied 
for additional borrowing on their mortgage to purchase another property.
What happened
Mr C was dealing with things on his and Mrs Cs behalf. In around October 2020, Mr C made 
an application to HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) for additional borrowing on their existing 
mortgage to purchase another property. The application didnt go through and he had to 
reapply in April 2021. HSBC initially rejected the application in error, but it went ahead in the 
end.
Mr C made several calls to HSBC to check everything was in place for the funds to be 
released in time for completion in June and to check the process for transferring the money. 
He found it difficult to get through to HSBC at times and on one occasion they didnt call him 
back when the call cut off. Mr C felt information HSBC gave him about how the funds would 
be transferred was unclear and contradictory. 
Shortly before completion, HSBC reassured Mr C everything was in place for the funds to be 
released. But at the last minute, HSBC found a Land Registry search hadnt been carried out 
and, without that, they couldnt provide the funds. Although the money finally came through, 
Mrs C and Mr C had suffered distress and inconvenience in the meantime. Theyd paid a 
significant deposit they were concerned about losing; theyd asked friends and family for 
financial help to allow the purchase to go through if HSBC didnt provide the funds; and Mr C 
had missed some important work commitments. 
HSBC offered Mr C compensation of £500 for what happened. Mr C didnt think that was 
enough, so he brought the complaint to this service. 
To put things right Mr C wanted HSBC to put right weaknesses he felt existed in their 
processes. And he wanted to be compensated for the time he lost dealing with the 
application and the distress and anxiety caused to him and his family and friends. 
Our investigator felt HSBCs offer of £500 compensation was fair and didnt uphold Mrs C 
and Mr Cs complaint. Since Mrs C and Mr C didnt accept our investigators view, Ive 
considered everything afresh to come to a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Cs strength of feeling about what happened and its impact. The rules 
under which this service operates mean that I can only consider here Mrs C and Mr Cs 
concerns about the individual circumstances of their complaint. Theyd need to refer any 
issues they have with HSBCs processes to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
And since Mrs C and Mr Cs wider family and friends arent customers of HSBC in relation to 
Mrs C and Mr Cs mortgage and the application they made, I cant consider awarding any 
compensation to them for the impact of what happened.
I think the service HSBC provided Mrs C and Mr C in relation to their application for a further 
advance was below the level of service Mrs C and Mr C were entitled to expect. The parties 
agree about that, so I dont think its necessary for me to set out here everything that 
happened. But Id like to reassure the parties that Ive taken into account everything theyve 
said when considering how I think its fair to put things right.
Ive thought carefully about how Mrs C and Mr C can be put back into the position they 
would have been in but for HSBCs mistakes. They havent told us about any financial loss 
they incurred, so Ive thought about the compensation HSBC should pay Mrs C and Mr C for 
the distress and inconvenience they suffered. 
Mrs C and Mr C made a second application which wasnt accepted initially due to an HSBC 
error, but they received a mortgage offer from HSBC in early April 2021. Mr C kept in touch 
with HSBC and they reassured him in early June that everything was in place for the funds 
to be paid over. 
Mrs C and Mr C risked losing a significant sum of money theyd paid as a deposit on their 
purchase if the deal didnt go ahead. I can understand it will have been stressful for Mrs C 
and Mr C when there was a last-minute delay in the funds being paid over and Mr C had to 
make several calls to ensure that happened. It will have been awkward asking friends and 
relatives to borrow money. And I acknowledge Mr Cs work was impacted when he had to 
speak to HSBC on several occasions, and sometimes the calls were long. 
Fortunately, HSBC were able to provide the funds in the end.  HSBC recognised theyd 
made mistakes, apologised and made an offer of compensation of £500 to Mrs C and Mr C 
before they brought their complaint to this service.
Bearing everything in mind, I think HSBCs apologies and offer of compensation are fair and 
reasonable to reflect the impact on Mrs C and Mr C of what went wrong. If HSBC havent 
already paid the compensation to Mrs C and Mr C, Id encourage them to allow them to 
accept it now. Whilst I understand Mrs C and Mr C will find it disappointing, I dont think 
HSBC need to do anything more to put things right. So, I dont uphold Mrs C and Mr Cs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman