DRN-2842786
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) stopped sending him annual 
statements for this savings account in the post.
What happened
In 2020 Nationwide let Mr R know that it would no longer send him annual statements for his 
savings account in the post. It told him about this change in his 2020 annual statement. 
Nationwide said he had 60 days to close his account (without the normal fee being applied) if 
he was unhappy with the change.
Mr R didnt close his account. However, he feels strongly that Nationwide should continue to 
send out paper statements as a matter of course. He says Nationwides decision to stop 
sending annual statements out by post isnt fair to customers (including him) who are unable 
or do not wish to use online banking services. He thinks customers like him shouldnt have to 
proactively contact the bank (by phone or in branch) to get the information in the annual 
statements.
Nationwide says it first told customers it intended to stop sending paper statements in 2018. 
It said took this decision to reduce costs, help the environment and because customers 
thought other services were more valuable. However, it said that Mr R was able to request 
information from the statements for tax declaration purposes without going online by asking 
for them in branch or on the phone. It also said that Mr R could sign up to its savings watch 
programme. That set out the interest rates on its accounts.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint. She appreciated Mr Rs unhappiness with the 
change. However she said that Nationwide acted within the account terms and conditions 
when it made the change. Thats because section 60.B of the terms and conditions say that 
Nationwide can make changes As a result of changes in technology, or in the way we want 
to provide services to our customers, or to reflect changes in the way other providers deliver 
services.
Our investigator also said that Nationwide told Mr R about the changes it was making in 
advance, and why it was making the changes. It told Mr R that he could close his account 
without charge if he was unhappy with the changes and let him know how he could access 
statements in the future. 
Taking the matter as a whole, she didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly, so she didnt 
recommend Nationwide took any action to resolve the complaint.
Mr R disagreed with the investigator and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. He said his interpretation of section 60.B was that Nationwide should only 
make a change as a result of technology if technology forces a change in service. He also 
said that while he was able to go into branch and ask for an interest certificate for his 
account, that wasnt the same as an account statement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr R feels that Nationwide is trying to strong arm its 
customers into using online services. He doesnt want to do that. He feels that Nationwide 
should send annual statements in the post as a matter of course.
I understand Mr Rs point of view and dont underestimate his strength of feeling. However, I 
think its worth pointing out that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator. So it isnt 
for me to comment on the way Nationwide operates its business or interfere with its 
commercial discretion. Ive looked at the relevant terms and conditions and think that 
Nationwide acted within them when it took the decision to stop sending out annual 
statements in the post. Section 60.B doesnt say that Nationwide can only make changes to 
the account as a result of technological change forced on it.
Mr R was told about the annual statement changes as far back as 2018. He was also given 
the option to close his account without charge and move his money to another provider 
when the 2020 statement was sent to hm. However, he didnt do this. Instead he kept his 
account with Nationwide open despite the changes to the way Nationwide issued 
statements.
I appreciate what Mr has said about the difference between a statement and an interest 
certificate. However, Im also conscious that Mr R can get the information he needs to 
monitor his account. He can go into branch and ask for information. He can also phone 
Nationwide.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman