DRN-2437167
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc processed some unauthorised direct debit 
payments, and subsequently closed Mr Ws accounts.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a joint account with Santander. Mr W has brought this complaint on 
behalf of them both, insofar as it relates to that account. He also complains about Santander 
closing his sole accounts, and about the events which led up to Santander making that 
decision. (Santander has said that Mrs W is welcome to continue banking with it, and offered 
to convert the joint account to a sole account in her name.)
In June 2019 a direct debit for £105.88 left Mr Ws Santander account. He says that he had 
not given Santander permission for that payment to be made, and that consequently 
Santander should have returned the direct debit unpaid, instead of allowing it to go out. He 
asked Santander to refund him under the direct debit guarantee and under the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017 (PSR). Santander temporarily refunded him, but then in August it 
reversed this refund on receiving evidence from the merchant which had taken the payment. 
Mr W complains that Santander did this without his consent.
This was only one of 15 direct debits which Santander said Mr W had challenged during the 
previous year and a half. Santander said that Mr W was abusing the direct debit system by 
using it to pursue a long-running dispute with the merchant. Santander told him that for that 
reason, it was closing his accounts and was not willing to have him as a customer any 
longer. Santander refunded the £105.88, stating that this was a gesture of good will rather 
than because it was obliged to refund it, and offered to pay him another £300 as 
compensation for various instances of poor customer service (in relation to this issue and 
also some other issues which Mr W has not brought to our Service). Being dissatisfied with 
that offer, Mr W brought this complaint to our Service, about the direct debit, about the 
events leading up to it, and the decision to close his accounts. He wants his accounts to be 
reinstated.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She declined to comment about whether 
Santander had done anything wrong in relation to the direct debit, because it had been 
refunded and so Mr W had incurred no financial loss. She said that Santander was entitled 
to close Mr Ws account and had given him the full notice period required in the account 
terms and conditions. Mr W did not agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since the £105.88 has been refunded to Mr W, I think his complaint about that payment, and 
about the re-debiting of that amount from his account in August 2019, is moot. I dont think it 
makes any difference whether Santanders decision to refund it to him again was a gesture 
of good will or (as Mr W argues) an obligation. The return of that money to him is enough to 
resolve that specific issue.
I know that Mr W would like me to vindicate his argument that regulations 67 and 76 of the 
PSR allow him to withdraw his consent to each direct debit payment to a merchant on a 
case-by-case basis, without cancelling the direct debit mandate. However, I think it is 
enough for me to say that the PSR and the direct debit guarantee were not intended to allow 
a banks customers to use the bank as a kind of proxy in an ongoing dispute with a third 
party. A dispute with a merchant should be resolved by direct contact with that merchant, 
rather than by withholding payments as they fall due under a direct debit mandate, and if a 
customer does not intend to pay a merchant, then they ought to cancel the mandate. I dont 
think anything in the PSR supports the contrary view. The administration of direct debits is 
not intended to function as some sort of dispute resolution service, comparable to the 
chargeback scheme or section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. So while I know it will 
disappoint Mr W, Im afraid I am not going to endorse his view of how direct debits should 
operate.
Santander closed Mr Ws accounts after giving him the full notice period required by the 
account terms and conditions. It was entitled to do that, and it didnt have to give him any 
reason for doing it, although it told him that it was because it thought he was abusing the 
direct debit system. It is not strictly necessary for me to comment on that reason, given that 
Santander did not have to give him one. But it seems like a valid reason to me. I am not 
going to order the bank to reinstate Mr Ws accounts.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021. Mr W may respond on Mrs Ws behalf. 
But if we do not hear from them, then we will presume that they both reject my decision.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman