DRN-3252614
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the delay Aviva Insurance Limited caused when he called for 
assistance under his Home Emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr P called Aviva in September 2021 to report a leak from a toilet and that the base of the 
toilet was moving. 
Aviva checked with Mr P if the leak was causing damage. Mr P said the leak wasnt causing 
any damage and he had access to another toilet. After assessing Mr Ps circumstances, 
Aviva arranged for an engineer to attend two days later between 8am and 6pm. 
Two days later in the afternoon Aviva called Mr P to apologise and explained that due to 
unforeseen circumstances an engineer wouldnt be able to attend that day. Aviva rearranged 
for an engineer to attend two days later, so four days after Mr P reported the leak. It said the 
engineer would attend no later than 1pm that day. 
Mr P raised a complaint as he was very unhappy with the inconvenience he said Aviva had 
caused him by having to take half a day off work.
Aviva promptly responded to Mr Ps complaint. For the inconvenience caused it paid him £25 
compensation. It explained that sometimes engineers can get delayed due to other jobs. As 
soon as it was made aware, it let Mr P know. 
Mr P asked us to look at his complaint. He said the amount of compensation wasnt enough. 
He said Aviva should have contacted him earlier in the day to let him know the engineer 
couldnt attend. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had done enough to resolve Mr Ps complaint. Mr P didnt 
agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong, we look at what the impact of the error was and what a business did 
to put things right. 
I understand Mr P was frustrated. Having waited for an engineer to arrive, it wasnt ideal for 
the appointment to have to be rearranged for a further two days later. However, I think the 
compensation Aviva paid of £25 for the general inconvenience caused is fair and 
reasonable. When it was made aware that an engineer wouldnt be able to attend Mr Ps 
property, Aviva advised him promptly. Unfortunately this was something outside of Avivas 
control. But I think it did all it could to make alternative arrangements and promptly deal with 
Mr Ps complaint. 
I understand Mr P will be disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons Ive given 
above, I dont think Aviva needs to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman