DRN-4491711
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Moneybarn No.1 Limited repossessed a car theyd supplied to her 
under a conditional sale agreement while she was making the agreed payments. Shes also 
unhappy that they failed to take her dyslexia into consideration when they disposed of her 
personal belongings that were in the car.
Miss S has been represented during the claim and complaint process by Ms S.  For ease of 
reference, I will refer to any comments made, or any action taken, by either Miss S or Ms S 
as Miss S throughout the decision.
What happened
In August 2019, Miss S was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. She paid an advance payment of £400, and the agreement was for £6,188 
over 57 months; with monthly payments of £249.56.
Miss S fell into financial difficulties and struggled to make the payments to Moneybarn. In 
November 2021, Moneybarn obtained a court order for the outstanding amount on the 
agreement, plus costs. In February 2022, Moneybarn obtained an Attachment of Earnings 
Order, to allow them to directly deduct an agreed £80 a month from Miss Ss income. 
Moneybarn say they that Miss Ss employer failed to comply with the order. As a result, in 
April 2022, they took action against the employer.
On 27 January 2023, Moneybarn received notification that the registered keeper of the car 
supplied had changed from Miss S to a third party, which was a breach of the terms of the 
agreement Miss S had signed. As such, on 15 March 2023, Moneybarn repossessed the 
car. 
On 20 March 2023, Moneybarn emailed Miss S to advise her there were some of her 
personal belongings in the car. Its my understanding this was her driving licence and 
passport. Moneybarn asked her to contact the company where the car was currently stored 
to arrange collection of her belongings. The email also said, the belongings will be available 
until 27th March 2023, after this date the possessions will be disposed of. Miss S didnt 
make any arrangements to collect her belongings, and, on 11 April 2023, she was advised 
these had been destroyed.
Miss S complained to Moneybarn about whatd happened on 11 April 2023. In her complaint 
she said she had difficulties with reading and writing, so was unable to read and action the 
email of 20 March 2023, in sufficient time to be able to collect her belongings. Moneybarn 
replied, saying they believed Miss S had been given sufficient opportunity to collect her 
belongings. Miss S wasnt happy with this response, so she brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said its reasonable to expect that, if Miss S was unable to read 
Moneybarns email, she couldve contacted them to ask what it was about, or to have 
arranged for someone to help explain the contents of the email. The investigator also said 
she wouldve expected Miss S to have asked Moneybarn not to communicate important 
information in writing, and there was nothing to show she did. Because of this, the 
investigator didnt think Moneybarn had done anything wrong.
Miss S wasnt happy with the investigators view and thought we were using my mental 
health and disabilities against me.  The investigator received further information about the 
court and repossession process, but this didnt change her mind that Moneybarn had acted 
reasonably. Miss S still wasnt happy and said she had continued to pay the agreed £80 a 
month to Moneybarn, but theyd still repossessed the car.
Because Miss S didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, Ive reached my view on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss S was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it.
Ive reviewed Moneybarns case notes, which date back to 20 April 2019, when they 
received Miss Ss application for finance. Theres nothing on these notes that shows Miss S 
had difficulties with reading and writing, or anything asking that any contact be either by 
phone or through a representative. Whats more, I havent seen anything else that shows me 
Miss S advised Moneybarn of her additional needs until her complaint on 11 April 2023.
I wouldnt have expected Miss S to have advised Moneybarn of her additional needs at the 
outset of the agreement, as its reasonable for her to have expected things to have run 
smoothly. So, making Moneybarn aware of her difficulties shouldnt have been necessary. 
However, Ive seen that Miss S raised a complaint in September 2019 about the quality of 
the car; she raised a complaint in October 2019 about potentially being mis-sold the 
agreement; she discussed an insurance claim in January 2020; and she started to have 
discussions about her financial difficulties from December 2019 onwards. During all these 
processes, Moneybarn regularly corresponded with Miss S in writing.
Given this, if Miss S was having difficulties with written correspondence, Im satisfied she 
had reasonable opportunity to raise this with Moneybarn from 2019 onwards. But, because 
she didnt do this until April 2023, I cant say that Moneybarn did anything wrong by advising 
Miss S in writing in March 2023 that she needed to collect her belongings  its not fair or 
reasonable to expect Moneybarn to have acted on information they were unaware of at the 
time.
Whats more, Moneybarns case notes clearly state that, when the repossession agent came 
to collect the car, Ms S was present and provided them with evidence shed been paying the 
agreed £80 a month. While the repossession went ahead, as Ms S was present at the time, 
she wouldve been able to remove her belongings from the car at that point.Given all the above, Im satisfied Miss S had the opportunity to remove her belongings from 
the car at the point of repossession, and that Moneybarn made her reasonably aware when 
the possessions needed to be collected by, and what would happen if they werent. Whats 
more, Moneybarn contacted Miss S in the way theyd been corresponding with her since 
2019, and in line with the correspondence requirements they had at the time. As such, I 
dont think that Moneybarn did anything wrong.
Turning to the repossession, Ive seen the statement for Miss Ss account. The Attachment 
of Earnings Order came into force on 11 February 2022, but no payments were made until 
25 May 2022. The first payment was for £160 (presumably the April and May 2022 
payments), and then the agreed £80 a month continued until the car was repossessed. 
Based on this, Im satisfied that the payments due in both February and March 2022 werent 
paid, and the Attachment of Earnings Order was in arrears.
However, from what Ive seen on Moneybarns case notes, it looks like the repossession 
took place because Miss S had breached the terms of the agreement and registered a 
change of keeper, not because the agreed £80 a month payments werent being made.
Ive also seen a copy of the court order dated 1 November 2021. This says, if you ignore 
this order your goods may be removed and sold, or other enforcement proceedings may be 
taken against you. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative to the courts, and 
we dont have the power to overturn a court order. As the court order says that Moneybarn 
may repossess the goods, if Miss S believes the repossession wasnt done correctly and in 
line with the court order, this is a matter she will need to raise with the courts. Its not 
something we have the power to deal with. So, I wont comment on this point any further.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman