DRN-1158400
Complaint
Mrs F says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about the sale of PPI policy sold in 1994. The policy was sold to Mrs F at 
the same time she arranged her mortgage, and provided cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs complaint. 
Theres limited information available from the time the PPI was sold to Mrs F, which isnt 
unusual given the sale took place many years ago. As a result, Bank of Scotland hasnt been 
able to provide copies of Mrs Fs actual paperwork from the time of sale. 
So, Ive based my findings on the information I do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened at the time of sale. 
Bank of Scotland says that Mrs F would have been given a choice about the PPI and it 
would have gained her consent before adding it to her mortgage. Due to the time that has 
passed and the lack of information I have about this sale, there isnt anything to say whether 
or not Bank of Scotland gave Mrs F a choice about the PPI. Businesses arent required to 
keep information indefinitely and so it would be unfair to say that Bank of Scotland wouldnt 
have given Mrs F a choice or gained her consent, just because it doesnt have the 
paperwork. I cant assume something went wrong when there isnt any persuasive evidence 
that it did. So it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold this complaint on this basis.
Bank of Scotland says its sales process at the time would have been to recommend the PPI 
to Mrs F. And the policy seems to have been right for her based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. 
 
 
While Bank of Scotland hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of the policy wording from 
1994, it has referred us to a copy of a policy wording for 1995  which is the closest copy it 
has to the time of sale. Because of this, I havent seen the policy wording from the time of sale. But based on the closest copy Ive seen and using what I know about these types of 
policies generally, I think its likely Mrs F would have been eligible for the cover. And I think 
its unlikely that she would have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mrs F has told us she would have been entitled to generous sick pay from her employer if 
she was too unwell to work.  She says this shows that she didnt need the PPI. 
Having thought about what shes said about her sick pay, I dont think this means that the 
PPI was right for her. The PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs F would 
have received from her employer and would have potentially paid out for longer than she 
would have received full sick pay  up to 12 months. The PPI also would have paid a benefit 
if Mrs F was ever made a redundant.
Mrs F has told us that she had some savings and shares that she could have used to help 
cover her mortgage repayments. Shes also told us that she could have relied on her father 
for financial support. 
Taking a mortgage is a large, long term financial commitment. If repayments arent met 
borrowers stand to lose their home. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI would have 
paid out a benefit of up to 12 months, which would have enabled Mrs F to use her savings 
for any other financial commitments she may have had. It also would have prevented her 
from having to surrender her shares, which she presumably wanted for investment 
purposes. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs F has said about the fact that she could have relied on the 
financial support of her father. While Mrs Fs father would want to help, their financial 
situation could change and so his help couldnt always be relied on. So, I dont think this 
would have meant that Bank of Scotland were wrong to recommend the PPI to Mrs F.
I also havent seen anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs F when 
she took out the policy  or that she had a particular need to keep costs down. So, overall, I 
think Bank of Scotlands recommendation was suitable. And I think Mrs F could have found 
the cover useful if she ever fell on hard times.
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mrs F, Bank of Scotland also had to 
give her clear enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that Bank of Scotland 
didnt give her all the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear 
as it should have been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have stopped Mrs F from taking it out.
So overall, I think Bank of Scotlands recommendation was suitable and I dont think that any 
better information would have put Mrs F off from taking out the policy.
It follows that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
 
 
 
My final decision
Based on everything Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman