DRN-4233948
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim on this home 
insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
Mr B tells us that in October 2022, following a storm a neighbour alerted him that his 
boundary wall was leaning towards the street.
Mr B contacted Aviva to make a claim.
Aviva declined the claim. In its final response dated 23 November 2022 it advised Mr 
B it had reviewed images of the wall and believed there was historical damage to the 
wall and didnt consider the damage to be caused by a one-off storm event. 
Mr B was unhappy with Avivas decision and that it hadnt visited his property to 
assess the claim. He was also unhappy that Aviva had removed his no claims 
discount despite not settling the claim.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service in March 2023
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. His view was the storm probably 
highlighted an existing problem and Aviva had reached a fair conclusion in declining 
the claim. He didnt think a site visit by Aviva wouldve added anything to the claim as 
it would only show the current state of the wall. 
Mr B asked that an ombudsman decide his case
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and largely for the same 
reasons. The crux of this complaint is whether Aviva have acted unfairly in declining the 
claim.
When deciding a claim for storm damage there are 3 main issues I have to consider:
Do I agree storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Aviva have not disputed whether there was a storm on the night the incident occurred. So 
Im persuaded its more likely there was a storm.
Our investigator said it was debatable if a storm would cause a wall to lean in the way it is. 
From what Ive seen, including pictures and publicly available images Im not entirely 
persuaded the damage is consistent with that typically caused by the windspeeds in the area 
around the time of the incident. However, I agree with our investigator that there is some 
debate and will therefore consider the final issue  were the storm conditions the main cause 
of the damage.
The policy document defines a storm as:
An unusual weather event with persistent high winds usually associated with rain, 
thunder, lightning or snow.
It goes on to state: 
The wind speed or gust should normally exceed 55mph (48 knots) to be a storm but we 
take other factors into consideration such as where the property is sited. A storm can 
highlight defects rather than cause them and damage due to lack of maintenance, wear 
and tear or which happens gradually is not covered.
Well check what the weather was like when the damage happened and may ask for 
pictures or ask an expert to look at the damage to decide if it was caused by a storm and 
confirm that a lack of maintenance didnt cause or contribute to the damage
Aviva have used publicly available images of the wall from 2019 and 2009 and say its height, 
lack of support pillars and the presence of tree roots underneath have gradually caused the 
wall to lean, and the images from 2019 show it was leaning. They say the images from 2009 
show the wall was laden with Ivy which will have weaken the structure and possibly added to 
previous problems.
Mr B says the wall wasnt leaning prior to the storm, and that the comparison between 
current pictures and historical images is flawed as they show a different line of sight. And a 
fence panel next to the wall actually leans towards his house giving the appearance that the 
wall was leaning towards the road. And he points out there was no vegetation on the wall 
when he bought the property which was newly built in 2016.
Ive looked at the images available and can see evidence of previous repairs to the wall, 
possibly an infill of a former gateway and uneven brickwork. There are also indications the 
wall was previously covered in vegetation, and the images from 2009 bear this out. Im not 
suggesting Mr B was aware the wall had previously been covered in Ivy, simply that it had 
been present and could have been a contributary factor in the damage to the wall. 
Importantly I find the images from 2019 persuasive, Im satisfied they do show the wall was 
leaning.  
Having reviewed the evidence and testimony both parties have provided Im more 
persuaded by Avivas view that the damage to the wall is historical and wasnt caused by the 
winds experienced around the time of the claim. I find it more likely the storm highlighted an 
existing problem and wasnt the main cause of the damage.
I note Aviva has reinstated the no claims discount and Im satisfied it has appropriately 
corrected its mistake. 
Its not for this service to tell a business how to investigate a claim, but I can consider if it 
acted reasonably. In this case it chose not to visit the site and relied on pictures provided by 
Mr B and publicly available street view images. I find this reasonable and in line with the 
policy terms and conditions, and Im satisfied the outcome of the claim wasnt impacted. In the circumstances of this case Im satisfied Aviva have acted reasonably in declining the 
claim and I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman