DRN-2090658
The complaint
Miss P says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says that the lender didnt carry 
out adequate affordability checks. If it had done these it wouldnt have lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about three home collected loans Morses provided to Miss P between 
July 2017 and July 2018.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 18/07/2017 £200 20 26/09/2017
2 26/10/2017 £400 33 13/07/2018
3 13/07/2018 £400 33 03/05/2019
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint. Ive decided to uphold Miss Ps 
complaint in part and I have explained why below.
As our adjudicator said, Miss Ps income was modest when she took loan 1. Morses records 
show she was earning £93 a week. And the repayment of £15 a week was a significant 
proportion of this income. I understand Miss Ps expenditure was also modest due to her 
circumstances, but I dont think it was reasonable to assume she would have enough left 
over to meet any unforeseen expenditure after making the loan repayments. Especially as 
the loan had a term of 20 weeks. So I agree that the repayment was too high and likely 
showed that the lending was unsustainable. Because of these factors I dont think Morses 
was right to approve loan 1. 
Morses has said that before loan 2, Miss Ps income had increased and so the loan 
repayments were a lower proportion of her income. Her expenses were still modest. So it 
wasnt right to say that the loan repayments would be a high proportion of her income going 
forward. 
It does seem possible that Miss P was in receipt of a higher income. But Morses hasnt been 
able to provide a copy of the payslip it says it looked at before approving the lending. So I 
think its reasonable so say there is still some uncertainty around this. 
And Miss Ps income was still recorded as being modest at £200 a week. She had now been 
borrowing from Morses for over three months and the amount she wanted to borrow 
doubled. And this was a commitment to make repayments for a further 33 weeks. These 
factors dont indicate to me that her finances were improving. 
So, taking all of this into account, I also dont think it was right to approve loans 2 and 3. 
Putting things right
Morses shouldnt have approved loans 1 to 3. It should:
refund all interest and charges Miss P paid on loans 1 to 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about loans 1 to 3 from Miss Ps credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses must 
give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Morses Club Plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman