DRN-4095119
The complaint
Mr C complains that Amazon Payments UK Limited (APUK) wont close his account and 
release the funds that belong to him.
What happened
Mr C says that on 26 March 2020, APUK suspended his seller account for high pricing and 
keeping his funds on hold when all items that were purchased were shipped and signed for 
by customers over 18 months ago. He says APUK have told him he was selling as an 
incorrect legal entity, but Mr C disputes this as he says hes only ever sold from his garage 
and shed, therefore he was registered as an individual seller. Mr C says hes requested that 
his seller account is closed down on two occasions, but they wont close his account and 
release his funds back to him. Mr C made a complaint to APUK.
APUK did not uphold Mr Cs complaint, so Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said APUK have explained that Mr C 
selected he was trading as an individual as a seller category upon registration, but following 
an APUK review, it was identified that Mr C was trading as a professional, determined by the 
volume of sales made. He said APUK have denied Mr Cs request for his funds to be 
released, as he must first register as a business, and successfully complete their verification 
process. Our investigator said hes seen no evidence to confirm that Mr C has done this.
Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said he had loads of items left 
over from his loft conversion and the sales were high at that time because of the pandemic. 
He said he did not buy these items to sell on. Mr C said that there is a £15,000 limit on the 
seller account, but his funds are under that amount. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr C has said about the £15,000 limit on the seller account and his 
funds are under that amount, but APUK believe he is trading as a professional based on the 
number of sales as opposed to the funds he has in his account. Although Mr C has said he 
had loads of items left over from his loft conversion and he didnt buy the items to sell on, 
APUK have told us that Mr C received 623 orders for various products. They said in addition 
to the volume of orders, the type of items listed on his account included earplugs, 
respirators, face masks and eu de parfum sprays, which is indicative of a business account 
rather than an individual account. 
So based on the volume of orders Mr C received and the type of items he listed on his 
account, Im satisfied that APUK requesting Mr C to update the classification of his account 
to keep in line with APUKs policies was proportionate  even if his sales were high because 
of the pandemic. 
In order for Mr Cs funds to be released and his account to be closed, he will need to update 
the classification of his account and verify his identity. The terms of the account show APUK 
can do this, as they state We may require you to provide additional information to verify 
your and/or your business identity as a condition of providing the Service to you or before 
we permit you to receive or transfer funds from your Account. Mr C missed a virtual 
appointment with APUK on 21 April 2023. APUK sent Mr C an email on 27 June 2023 to let 
him know how he could reschedule the appointment. If Mr C does not have a copy of this 
email anymore, then he can contact our investigator who can forward the email to him. But it 
follows I dont require APUK to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman