DRN-2480820
The complaint
Miss S complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC hadnt used a refund she was due on her 
loan to pay off her pre-existing arrears.
 
What happened
Miss S said she had a loan with Barclays that had fallen into arrears, because shed missed
some payments. Then in October 2019, Barclays wrote to her to say that she was getting a
refund of £1,383.53. She assumed that this would be used to clear the arrears. But a couple
of weeks later Miss S got another letter from Barclays saying she was £865.53 in arrears on
her loan.
Miss S said if Barclays had applied the refund to her arrears then she wouldve saved on
interest payments. But instead Barclays applied the refund to the outstanding balance.
Miss S said that shed also received poor service from Barclays when it was considering her
complaint, and it hadnt kept to the required timescales for a reply.
Barclays said it had paid Miss S a refund because it hadnt sent her letters telling her about
the interest accruing on her loan when it was supposed to. Its not allowed to charge interest
for a time when it hasnt given Miss S this required information, so it paid back interest it had
charged at that time.
But Barclays didnt use this refund to clear the arrears on Mis Hs loan. It said it wouldnt do
that, because that wouldnt be a true reflection of the payment history on her loan.
Barclays said that it was sorry about how it had handled Miss Ss complaint, and it offered
her £150 for this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that he could
appreciate why Miss S would prefer the refund money was paid towards her arrears. But the
issue that had led to the repayment had never impacted the minimum payment or payment
terms. The arrears on the loan arent related to this refund at all.
Our investigator also said that Miss S is being charged the same level of interest whether
shes in arrears or not. Interest is charged on the overall balance, which includes the loan
balance and the arrears together.
So, even if the interest had been refunded to the arrears, that wouldnt make any difference
to the amount of interest being charged on her loan. And the interest refund meant Miss Ss
loan balance came down, which in turn meant her interest payments came down.
Our investigator said that Barclays was entitled to refund this interest to the balance.
Because our investigator said the refund wasnt connected to Miss Ss arrears, he thought it
was fair and reasonable for Barclays to apply the refund to the balance.
Our investigator said our service couldnt consider complaints which are solely about how a
business has handled complaints. But he also noted that Barclays had paid Miss S £150 for
how it responded to her complaint, and he thought that was fair.
Miss S said she didnt think that what Barclays had done were the actions of a responsible
lender. She wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to
me for a final decision.
My first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to
uphold it. I thought then that the difficulties Miss S had in bringing this complaint were
appropriately compensated by a payment of £150 from Barclays. And I thought that Barclays
didnt have to use its refund to pay off the arrears on the loan.
Both Barclays and Miss S replied. Barclays said it had nothing to add. But Miss S said Id got
some things wrong in my decision. She hadnt received the payment of £150 that Barclays
had told us about. And she said that the payments I had mentioned werent missed
payments. Id like to say sorry to Miss S for any mistakes.
I asked Barclays about this, and its sent me some further information. Ive reached a revised
view, which changes one part of the outcome of this complaint, so I will now set out a
second provisional decision.
My second provisional decision
I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
I know that Miss S has had difficulty bringing this complaint, and the responses she 
received from Barclays have been less than clear in the initial stages. Our service 
cant always consider issues about how a service has handled a complaint. But in 
this case, I still think the initial lack of clarity in logging and resolving Miss Ss 
complaint is something we can consider. However, I also think that Barclays offer of 
£150 is enough to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this part of Miss Ss 
complaint.
Miss S has told us she hasnt received that money, so Ill award that as part of 
resolving this complaint.
Ill now turn to the larger issue, how a refund made by Barclays has been applied to 
Miss Ss loan.
Miss S said that she was paying more, because of how Barclays has applied this 
refund. But I dont think thats right.
Miss S was paying more interest, because she missed three payments. I initially 
thought these payments were for September, October and November 2019, because 
those were the payments mentioned in Barclays most recent letter to her. But Miss S 
says she didnt miss those payments.
Ive checked with Barclays, and it has confirmed that before Miss S received a letter 
about the refund, her most recent missed payments were from June, July and August 
2018. It has shown us that it tried twice in each of those months to claim the direct debit payment for her loan. Barclays has also shown us a considerable amount of 
earlier correspondence it has sent to Miss S about her missed payments.
Because Miss S missed payments onto her loan, that means her debt is greater. And 
shes paying interest on that debt.
But at the same time, Barclays has also reduced Miss Ss total balance by the 
amount of her refund. She has been given full credit for that. 
So Miss S pays less interest, because her overall debt has been reduced by the 
amount of the refund. When Barclays says shes now paying additional interest, all it 
means is that it hasnt also been able to reduce her overall debt balance by the 
amount of the monthly payments it was expecting her to make to the loan. If shed 
made those payments, she would be incurring even less interest.
Im satisfied that Miss S isnt being charged any interest which could have been 
avoided by crediting this refund differently.
But Miss S says Barclays is chasing her to pay the arrears on her loan, when it 
doesnt need to be. It could just have used this refund to clear those arrears. She 
doesnt think it is responsible lending for Barclays to chase her for money, in a 
situation where it couldve wiped out those arrears.
Barclays has sent us the payment history for Miss Ss loan. I can see from this that 
Miss S has from time to time missed monthly payments on her loan. So I understand 
that Miss S has had difficulty meeting her regular monthly payments.
And what Barclays is doing, by continuing to ask Miss S to pay the arrears on her 
loan, is firstly reflecting the actual payments shes made to this loan onto her credit 
file. Thats not unfair.
Secondly, Barclays is asking Miss S to address the financial situation shes in now. 
She missed three payments in summer 2018, and had also missed payments prior to 
this.
Barclays told us that this loan remained in arrears by late 2019. So Barclays doesnt 
want to use this refund to replace those missing payments, and avoid dealing with 
any financial problems Miss S might be facing now.
I know that Miss S has found Barclays approach on this intrusive and stressful, and 
Im sorry to hear that. But I still think this is a responsible approach for Barclays to 
take.
I know Miss S will be disappointed, but I dont think her complaint on this point should 
be upheld. However, as I noted above, I think Miss S should now receive the 
payment of £150 that Barclays offered her to resolve the issue of problems with her 
complaint. So thats what Ill award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side sent any substantive reply to the issues.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I proposed, to recognise the offer 
Barclays had already made to Miss S.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Miss S £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman