DRN-3980448
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd gave to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr P to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ps.
What happened
Mr P initially approached Wesleyan for advice about his pension options in 1992. Progress 
from there on was intermittent. By 1994, when Wesleyan gave Mr P advice, it had noted 
that: Mr P was 28 years old, single and in good health; he was a deferred member of his 
former employers DB scheme and had a normal attitude to risk (selected from three 
options of adventurous, normal or cautious). His DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer 
value of £1,554, which was estimated to pay Mr P a pension at age 65 of £4,542 a year.
In October 1994 Wesleyan recommended that Mr P should transfer his DB funds into a 
personal pension. It set out its reasons for that in writing the following month. Its report said 
that Mr P needed a yearly investment return (critical yield) of 10.9% in order to match the 
benefits from his DB scheme. It said that after discussing this with Wesleyan Mr P felt the 
investment return was reasonable but understood that if it was lower then he would receive 
less than the sum guaranteed by the DB scheme.
Mr P went ahead with the transfer and in March 1995 a revalued sum of almost £1,624 was 
paid into his newly set up personal pension.
In 2021, after seeing an advert from professional representatives, Mr P complained to 
Wesleyan about the suitability of its advice. In short he said he didnt think it was in his best 
interests to have transferred out of his DB scheme. 
Wesleyan replied. It said it had pointed out the risks of transferring when it gave Mr P its 
suitability report in 1994. It said if he was unsure of any issues, he could have raised those 
at that point.
Mr P brought his complaint to us. Wesleyan then objected to us looking into it. It argued that 
Mr P had brought his complaint out of time. Thats because our rules say that a complaint 
must be brought to us either within six years of the events being complained about, or if 
outside of that time-frame, within three years of when the individual ought reasonably to 
have known they had cause for complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into whether or not we had the authority to consider this 
complaint. He felt that we had. He noted that Mr P had no reason to doubt that Wesleyan 
was acting in his best interests when it gave its advice in 1994. So that wouldnt have given 
him cause to complain at that point. And Mr P had told us that he only became aware he 
might have had cause for complaint after seeing an advert from his representatives in 2021. 
He then made his complaint shortly after. So, our investigator was satisfied that the 
complaint was brought within three years of when Mr P ought reasonably to know that he 
had cause for complaint. The investigator invited Wesleyan to make any further comments it 
wished to on that point. It didnt make any further submissions.
Our investigator went on to consider the merits of Mr Ps complaint. Having done so the 
investigator thought it should be upheld. He recommended that Wesleyan compensate Mr P 
for any losses he might have suffered as a result of Wesleyans unsuitable advice.
Wesleyan didnt reply to our investigators assessment of the complaint, so its been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Can we look at this complaint?
Before commenting on the merits of Mr Ps complaint, I think it would help to say upfront that 
I agree with our investigators view that Mr P brought it to us in time. While the events 
complained about are clearly outside of the six year time-frame for bringing a complaint, our 
rules allow us to look into the merits of a complaint where a consumer raises it within three 
years of when he ought reasonably to have become aware of it. And, in this case, I'm 
satisfied that Mr P was unaware that he had cause for complaint until 2021. So, as he 
complained shortly after, hes made his complaint within the timeframe specified by our 
rules. That means we have the authority to consider it. 
Did Wesleyan give Mr P suitable advice?
While considering this question Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive 
or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think 
is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Wesleyan gave its advice in 1994. At that time the relevant regulator was the Life Assurance 
and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). The rules set by LAUTRO in relation to 
selling practices would therefore have applied. In short these required Wesleyan to exercise 
due skill, care and diligence, deal fairly with Mr P, consider his position and relevant 
circumstances and not advise him to enter into a contract unless it thought doing so was in 
his best interests.
Having considered this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the complaint 
for broadly the same reasons our investigator gave.
Financial viability 
In his complaint Mr P said that Wesleyan had told him hed be much better off by transferring 
to a personal pension. And that appears to be his principal motivation for going ahead with 
the transfer, although Wesleyans suitability report doesn't say that explicitly. 
Wesleyan carried out a transfer value analysis report showing how much Mr Ps pension 
fund would need to grow by (the critical yield) each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme.Wesleyan gave its advice during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount 
rates' for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given. 
The critical yield required to match the DB scheme pension at age 65 was 10.9% a year. 
This compares with the discount rate of 10.7% a year for 37 years to retirement. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 12%, the middle 
projection rate 9%, and the lower projection rate 6%. It's notable that Wesleyan considered 
Mr P to have a normal attitude to risk. Normal isn't a word often seen in modern risk 
assessments, but I've taken that to mean its similar to the more usual terms of balanced or 
medium as it is the middle option of three. And, generally an individual investing in line with 
their middle range attitude to risk might expect to see returns similar to the regulators middle 
rate projection, in this case 9%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr P's 
normal attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Given the critical yield was higher 
than both the discount rate and the regulators middle projection growth rate, I think Mr P 
was likely to receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than the DB scheme at 
retirement.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ps best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. But, while it does make some comparisons between the DB scheme and personal 
pension for things like death benefits and early retirement, the suitability report doesn't 
explicitly say which other benefits would make transferring in Mr Ps best interests. Neither 
did Wesleyan say in its complaint response what other benefits Mr P might have enjoyed 
from transferring to a personal pension so as to make that transfer worthwhile. Instead its 
limited its reply to saying that it gave appropriate risk warnings to Mr P at the time of its 
advice. 
However, while Wesleyan did give Mr P some warnings about the loss of guarantees and 
that he might end up worse off by transferring, I dont think those warnings went far enough. 
Also simply providing risk warnings doesn't make unsuitable advice suitable. And I dont 
think there were good reasons to advise Mr P to put his DB benefits at risk by transferring to 
a personal pension. It follows that I don't think Wesleyan acted in Mr Ps best interests. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the potential for higher income in retirement would have sounded like an 
attractive feature to Mr P. But Wesleyan wasnt there to just transact what Mr P might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr P needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice Wesleyan gave to Mr P was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr P was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. So, I think Wesleyan should have advised Mr P to remain 
in his DB scheme.Of course, I have to consider whether Mr P would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Wesleyans advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr P would 
have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against Wesleyans advice. I say this 
because Mr P was an inexperienced investor with a medium attitude to risk. And, as far as 
I'm aware, at that time he had no other pension provision. So, if Wesleyan had provided him 
with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his 
best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the current regulator - the FCA - launched a consultation on new DB 
transfer redress guidance and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr P whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr P.
For clarity, Mr P has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.
Wesleyan may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ps contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Wesleyan to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, Wesleyan should pay the compensation if 
possible into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
Wesleyan should pay it directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date Wesleyan receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further, Wesleyan must add interest to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Wesleyan 
to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above. In those 
circumstances, any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont 
apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Wesleyan Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Wesleyan 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr P any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Wesleyan pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as 
set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Wesleyan Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman