DRN-3211949
The complaint
Miss H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund payments she made after falling victim 
to a scam.
What happened
Miss H says she received a message through a social media website from her manager.
Miss H says she was linked with her managers profile, but they had never exchanged
messages through the websites messaging function.
Miss H had just returned from a holiday, and when her manager asked how she was 
Miss H thought she was referring to her recent holiday. Miss H says she had no reason to
believe it wasnt her manager. Although it turned out that her managers profile had been
hacked and Miss H was being contacted by fraudsters.
Miss H was sent a link about a company (company A) that offered grants. Her manager
suggested Miss H should apply and said shed been successful in getting a grant herself.
Her manager also gave her the contact information for getting in touch with company A.
Miss H had some questions and wanted to talk to her manager but was told her manager
couldnt receive text messages or phone calls as her phone was blocked, so they had to
communicate through the website messaging only.
Miss H says she looked carefully through the website attached to the link she was sent and
felt confident that everything was legal and legitimate, so she got in touch with company A
using the information her manager had given her.
Miss H was asked to download a messaging app by the contact at company A, in order to
communicate with them. Company A asked Miss H to provide personal information through
the app in order to apply for the grant - which she did. Miss H was told that she needed to
pay a £500 deposit to guarantee her application and cover application fees. On 1 September
2019 Miss H made a payment of £500 via her online banking, to the bank details she was
given by company A.
Shortly afterwards Miss H was contacted by company A who told her that she had been
successful and won a grant of £100,000, and shed be receiving a cheque. They
provided her with a certificate showing shed won, which was sent through the messaging
app. She was told in order to receive the cheque, she needed to make a payment of £1,000
which would cover the delivery cost and administrative fees. But once this was paid, she
would receive her cheque of £100,000 via courier the following morning. On 2 September
2019, Miss H made a payment of £1,000 to the account details provided.
Shortly afterwards Miss H was contacted again by company A. This time she was told that
the cheque was being held up at customs, and that she needed to pay £10,000 to get the
cheque released. But once the payment was made her cheque would be delivered to her.
Miss H didnt have the money to pay the £10,000 and company A suggested that she take
out a loan in order to make the payment and receive her cheque. Miss H told company A
she couldnt make the payment and received messages pressuring her to take out a loan.
The following day Miss H went into her place of work and saw her manager. At this point she
became aware that she hadnt been in contact with her manager and shed been the victim
of a scam.
Miss H got in touch with Lloyds on 3 September 2019 to let them know shed been the victim
of a scam and asked them to get her money back.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Lloyds says one of those
exceptions apply in this case.
Lloyds looked into Miss Hs complaint but declined to refund any of the funds she lost,
saying shed failed to do any checks and didnt have a reasonable basis to believe the
payment was for a legitimate purpose. They contacted the receiving bank and recovered
£70.41 which they credited to Miss Hs account.
Miss H wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
When Miss H brought her complaint to us, she also referenced buying £400 of shopping
vouchers as part of a scam. The investigator suggested the £400 was not related to this
scam as it wasnt referenced in any of the evidence Miss H provided. So it wasnt considered
as part of this case.
An investigator looked into Miss Hs complaint and upheld it. Saying they felt Miss H has a
reasonable basis for believing that the payment was for a legitimate purpose. They felt
Miss H believing her manager had directed her to the opportunity, helped give it legitimacy.
And that by Miss H reviewing the website, she had done appropriate checks before
completing the payment. The investigator recommended that Lloyds refund Miss H 100% of
her payments under the CRM code.
Lloyds disagreed with the investigators opinion, raising the following points:
The process of receiving the funds was too good to be true
As Miss H hadnt messaged with her manager before on the website, they wouldve
expected her to talk to her manager before proceeding. And the fact her manager
wouldnt take calls or text messages shouldve been a red flag that something wasnt
right.
If Miss H had reviewed the website, she shouldve seen that the grant she was
applying for required applicants to reside in the US.
The contact name on the messaging app that Miss H was communicating with
company A through didnt match with the information she had been given.
As Lloyds disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
My provisional findings
On 6 December 2021, I issued a provisional decision due to reaching a different outcome on 
the case than our investigator had. I asked for both parties to provide any more comments or 
evidence that they wanted to be considered before issuing my final decision.In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen Im not going to recommend that Lloyds refunds Miss H, and Ill
explain why.
The CRM Code sets out when a bank should reimburse a scam victim and it provides
increased protection for customers who are the victim of scams. But the CRM Code doesnt
mean a bank must reimburse every scam victim. The CRM Code permits a bank to choose
not to reimburse a customer in some cases where the bank is able to establish that the
customer didnt take sufficient care in making the transaction, and that this made
a difference.
A bank might decline a refund if it can be demonstrated that the customer made the
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
In considering these points account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the
case, including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam.
Lloyds says it doesnt believe that Miss H should be refunded as she didnt have a
reasonable basis for believing the opportunity was legitimate.
As the payments Miss H made were for £1,000 and £500, Im not persuaded that Lloyds
were required to issue Miss H with a warning when she was making the payments online.
The payments arent particularly large or unusual, so I wouldnt have expected them to flag
as suspicious - although I appreciate it is a lot of money in Miss Hs eyes.
But Ive considered whether Lloyds have established Miss H didnt have a reasonable basis
for believing the opportunity was legitimate. And, having considered everything, Im minded
to agree with Lloyds for the following reasons:
Miss Hs manager was able to communicate with her through an online social media
website but said she couldnt receive phone calls or text messages. This seems
unusual. I can see Miss H had wanted to talk to her manager before proceeding, and
I think its reasonable to have expected Miss H to either call her manager at work or
go to see her at work. Especially as she clearly had some concerns with what she
was being told.
The process of her applying and within 24 hours being almost instantly approved for
a grant of £100,000 seems too good to be true. Also, it references her winning
which doesnt fit with the grant that was being offered. It also doesnt make sense
that within a few hours she would have an answer. And it seems highly unusual that
for a grant of this size, that the application process would only require her to provide
some basic personal information over a messaging app. The website clearly sets out
a more involved application process so they can vet the applicants.
The contact name on the messaging app Miss H downloaded didnt match with any
of the other information she had about company A. Particularly the individuals name
that was showing. Also, the email address attached to the contact didnt include
company As name and was for an email account on a free email provider. It didntmatch any of the information provided on company As website. I also think its
unusual that all of the communication with the company would be over a general
messaging app, rather than through emails.
One of the screen shots Miss H gave us, shows a driving license. Its unclear if this
was provided as proof of legitimacy by the fraudster. But the name on the driving
license doesnt match with any of the other information Miss H had.
The grant that Miss H was applying for was coming from a US based organisation
and according to the website was $100,000USD. So, it seems unusual that Miss H
would need to make a payment for costs to a UK bank account and that she would
receive £100,000 which is more than the $100,000USD  and I cant see that she
questioned this.
Overall, I think there were enough warning signs and red flags that I wouldve expected
Miss H to have discussed this with someone, at the very least talking to her manager via
phone or in person to check the validity of the grant. Especially considering the money Miss
H was being asked to pay, which to her was a large amount of money that needed to be
used for day to day living costs.
Im not persuaded that Miss H did enough checks considering the number of warning signs,
or that she had a reasonable basis for believing this was a genuine opportunity or legitimate
transaction. Therefore, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund Miss H under the CRM code.
Could Lloyds have done more to recover Miss Hs funds?
From what Ive seen Miss H reported the fraud to Lloyds on 3 September 2019, and within
three hours they had contacted the receiving bank. Unfortunately, by the time they
contacted the receiving bank, the money had already been removed from the beneficiary
account  except for £70.41 which was recovered and returned to Miss H. Overall, Im
satisfied Lloyds made reasonable attempts in trying to recover Miss Hs funds.
The £400 of shopping vouchers
Miss H referred to £400 of shopping vouchers she purchased on her debit card. However,
there is no reference to this in any of the screen shots she had sent relating to the grant
scam, and I cant see that Lloyds reference having looked into this complaint point on their
Final Response Letter or in their business file. If Miss H was the victim of a scam that
involved buying shopping vouchers, she needs to make a complaint to Lloyds and give them
the chance to investigate her concerns. If she is unhappy with the response she gets from
Lloyds following their investigation she can contact our service.
I appreciate that Miss H is going to find it very distressing if she doesnt get refunded for her
loss and Id like to assure her that I have thought very carefully about the circumstances of
this scam.
Unfortunately based on everything Ive seen, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund Miss H.
Responses to the provisional decision
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision, saying they had nothing further to add. Miss H 
responded saying she still felt Lloyds shouldve done more to protect her as a customer, but 
she didnt provide any new evidence or information that she wanted considered. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or evidence to consider, Ive reached the 
same outcome as I did in my provisional decision  the reasons for which are set out above.
On that basis I cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund Miss H, and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman