DRN-2446874
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) is responsible for damage 
caused to their boiler and it incorrectly deemed it beyond economical repair, under their 
home insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs B contacted Aviva to report that there was a leak coming from 
their boiler. They explained to Aviva that a third-party engineer had examined the boiler and 
had found that the pump and heat exchanger were faulty. That engineer advised them to 
contact Aviva due to the cost of replacing those faulty parts. 
After accepting the claim, Aviva sent an engineer who agreed with the damage, but on his 
inspection of the boiler found that the fan short circuited and so deemed the boiler beyond 
economical repair (BER).
In line with the terms and conditions of the policy, Aviva paid £500 towards the cost of a new 
boiler. Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this outcome and raised a complaint to Aviva, on 
the basis that it was its engineer who caused the most damage to the boiler. 
Aviva didnt uphold their complaint saying that there was no evidence to support that it was 
its engineer who had caused the damage. The damage was such that the cost of the repair 
of the boiler made it uneconomical to fix. Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with Avivas 
conclusion and so referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint. He said:
The faults identified by Aviva were the same as the third-party engineer.
There was no evidence that Avivas engineer caused damage.
Aviva had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions. So it wasnt 
unreasonable for Aviva to deem the boiler BER.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept our investigators view as they said that the boiler wasnt old and 
didnt have as many faults as Aviva had said. They said that Avivas engineer had damaged 
the boiler further and there had been no calculation from Aviva to determine that the boiler 
was BER. So it asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. I issued a 
provisional decision on 6 November 2020. In my provisional decision I didnt think that Aviva 
had shown that Mr and Mrs Bs boiler was BER. I asked both parties to provide me anything 
else they wished me to consider by 6 December 2020.  
Responses to my first provisional decision
Mr and Mrs B accepted the outcome of the provisional decision but added that the water 
leak was nowhere near the boiler as it was a tiny leak on a pipe joint about 1m away from 
the boiler. That the Aviva engineer was grossly negligent to have probed his screwdriver in 
the boiler without checking first that the mains supply had been disconnected. This led to the 
engineer being knocked off his feet and the fan and circuit board becoming damaged. Finally 
they said that the entire experience had been needlessly distressing. 
Aviva didnt accept the outcome of the provisional decision and asked for a copy of Mr and 
Mrs Bs invoice for the new boiler they had installed. It disputed that the £2,447 paid by Mr 
and Mrs B wouldve been for the cost of the boiler alone and would likely include external 
parts that would be required to fit the boiler, as well as the cost of installation and possibly a 
power flush. It also (despite previous requests) now provided a breakdown of the costs it 
used to determine that the boiler was BER. It confirmed that the boiler it wouldve sourced 
would have been the same boiler that Mr and Mrs B installed but it would have cost 
£1095.20 (inc VAT). So its determination that the boiler was BER was correct as the cost of 
the parts to repair the boiler totalled £975.72, which was over the 85%. 
I further issued my second provisional decision on 1 December 2020. I asked both parties to 
provide me anything else they wished me to consider by 31 December 2020.  
I asked Mr and Mrs B to obtain a report from the independent engineer they used who 
initially examined the boiler to see if the parts that he said were faulty were the same as the 
parts that the Aviva engineer said were faulty. Unfortunately this couldnt be obtained and so 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to place significant weight on its engineers 
assessment of the damaged parts of the boiler. 
Aviva has now confirmed that the boiler it used to determine whether Mr and Mrs Bs boiler 
was BER, was the same model that Mr and Mrs B had installed. It said the replacement 
boiler at todays current cost, would be £1095.20. Also, that the policy allows for the 
replacement of the boiler only and not the installation or other accessories to be included in 
determining whether a boiler is BER. 
Having reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy, it says that: the cost of parts 
(including VAT) to repair the main heating system is greater than 85% of the manufacturers 
current retail price of a replacement.  
Mr and Mrs B were asked to provide an invoice that showed the cost of the replacement 
boiler. The invoice sent showed the cost of the boiler, plus installation and VAT. The term 
provides for a replacement boiler only. In the circumstances, Im persuaded that Avivas 
determination, using these figures, that the boiler was BER was correct. 
Taking everything together, I think that Aviva has relied upon the terms and conditions of the 
policy and fairly applied it to the claim. It was unfortunate that Aviva didnt supply the 
evidence of the BER sooner, as I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr and Mrs B 
wouldve liked, and I am sorry to disappoint them. But, in these circumstances, before I issue 
my final decision, I wanted to give everyone the chance to reply. 
Responses to my second provisional decision
Aviva had nothing further to add to the second provisional decision. Mr and Mrs B reiterated that it was the Aviva engineer who caused further damage to their 
boiler and because Aviva had caused the damage, it was misleading for it to deem the boiler 
BER without the installation cost and additional parts included. Mr and Mrs B said that they 
had been forced to pay £2,447 to replace the boiler and why would they pay this if they 
couldve been able to pay far less. Finally, as Avivas engineer hadnt denied causing the 
flash from the boiler and there were opposing views between the parties, the ombudsmans 
presumption shouldve been in favour of Mr and Mrs B and not Aviva as it was the defence 
who have to prove otherwise and not the other way around. 
What Ive decided and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
 
Mr and Mrs B feel that where there are opposing views any presumption should be weighted 
in favour of the complainants. However, I make decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  what I consider most likely to have happened given the available evidence 
and circumstances.
In this case, Ive placed significant weight on the engineers report Aviva provided, as far as 
Im aware this is still the only expert evidence available. That report did not mention any 
flash having occurred but did detail what was wrong with the boiler. Mr and Mrs B were 
asked to provide expert evidence that could support their position. This wasnt provided. So 
in the absence of any other expert evidence, I am satisfied that this evidence - supported 
Avivas determination that the boiler was BER. 
Mr and Mrs B felt that they had been forced to pay a higher price for the replacement boiler 
than the cost that Aviva used.  And that it was unfair that Aviva didnt include the associated 
costs with installation and parts in the BER calculations.  But, the terms and conditions of the 
policy indicate that the costs of replacement - would be limited to the boiler cost only and not 
any associated costs. So, I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to have relied upon this 
clause of the policy when it determined whether the boiler was BER. 
Finally, Aviva has said that the replacement boiler it sourced was from a retailer that sold to 
both public and trade. I have seen the details of this retailer and I think the price quoted to 
Aviva wouldve been the same price quoted to Mr and Mrs B, had they chosen to buy the 
boiler from there. So I dont think Aviva were unreasonable in relying on this quote, when it 
determined the boiler to be BER. 
Overall, I think that Avia has relied upon the terms and conditions of the policy, which it fairly 
applied to the claim. As such, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman