DRN-3642279
The complaint
Mr D complains that MBNA Limited refuse to either write off or waive interest in respect of 
money he owes following a charge back error on his credit card account.   
What happened
Mr D holds a credit card account with MBNA. In November 2021, Mr D contacted them as he 
wanted to repay the outstanding balance and close his credit card account. MBNA confirmed 
the outstanding balance and Mr D arranged to repay this. MBNA asked Mr D to call back, 
once his payment had cleared, so that the account could be closed. In the meantime, MBNA 
reduced the limit on Mr Ds credit card account to £500.
Mr D called MBNA back on 2 December 2021. They told him his payment had cleared. But 
theyd also received a payment of £528.05 to his account resulting in a credit balance of 
£515.33. They said the account couldnt be closed while there was an outstanding credit 
balance. So, they arranged to pay £515.33 into Mr Ds nominated bank account to bring the 
credit card balance to zero.
MBNA subsequently received a charge back request from another bank. It appears the 
amount of £528.05 had been credited to Mr Ds credit card account as a result of an error by 
another party. So, MBNA completed the chargeback on 20 December 2021. This resulted in 
Mr D having an outstanding balance on his MBNA credit card of £528.05. 
Mr D says MBNA hadnt contacted him to tell him about the charge back. The first he knew 
was when he received an SMS text message from them advising his account was over the 
agreed limit. He was unable to respond immediately as he was away on holiday 
Mr D called MBNA on 11 January 2022 to find out what had happened. MBNA explained 
about the charge back which had resulted from an error made by another party. Mr D wasnt 
happy that MBNA hadnt told him about this before. So, he raised a complaint with them.
MBNA responded to Mr Ds complaint on 1 February 2022. They agreed their service fell 
short by not making him aware of the chargeback request before it had been processed. To 
reflect this, they offered compensation of £80 and refunded the interest that had accrued in 
January 2022, as a result of the chargeback. They also agreed to waive interest for the 
following four months to allow Mr D time to repay the amount he owed.
Mr D remained unhappy with MBNAs response, He said theyd recorded information on his 
credit file to show his balance was in excess of the agreed limit. He also wanted MBNA to 
write off what they said he owed them as he thought the error wasnt of his making. MBNA 
responded in a letter on 3 February 2022. They confirmed theyd taken steps to correct his 
credit file. But they said they couldnt write off what he owed.
Unhappy with MBNAs responses, Mr D referred his complaint to this service. Having 
considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think MBNA needed to do 
anything more. She thought the compensation offered by MBNA seemed fair and thought it 
was reasonable for them to ask Mr D to pay back what he owed. Our investigator thought 
MBNAs offer to waive interest for four months was also fair, given the circumstances.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators findings. He said he could only afford to pay £25 a 
month and thought a fair outcome would see MBNA waive any interest costs associated with 
what he owed as the error hadnt been caused by him.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ds complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to clarify that our role isnt to ask a business to alter its procedures or 
processes or impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These 
aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Ds experience with them. When doing that, I also need to establish 
whether that experience resulted from a mistake or error that MBNA made. 
MBNA received a payment refund from a third party to Mr Ds credit card account. As this 
wasnt originated by MBNA, I cant reasonably say this resulted from something they did 
wrong. MBNA werent able to close Mr Ds account while there was a balance. So, that 
balance needed to be cleared first. I think this appears entirely reasonable.
MBNA transferred the credit balance held to Mr Ds nominated current account. Again, given 
the circumstances, this also appears reasonable. Mr D received those funds to his current 
account  hes confirmed that. But I havent seen anything to suggest he sought out any 
explanation or assurance about what the refund related to. And it appears the funds have 
since been spent and are no longer available. So, its fair to say that Mr D received benefit 
from the funds. I cant reasonably hold MBNA responsible if Mr D chose to spend that 
money. They wouldnt have had any control over that.
Once the error was identified by the third party, they submitted a chargeback request to 
MBNA. MBNAs terms and condition allow them to process that request and debit the funds 
to Mr Ds credit card account. So, again I cant reasonably say MBNA did anything wrong 
here. But it appears they didnt tell Mr D ahead of processing the chargeback. 
MBNA have admitted they shouldve done more to advise Mr D. They offered compensation 
of £80 to reflect their failings. Given what happened, this amount feels fair to me, so I dont 
think it would be reasonable to increase this. They also refunded interest incurred by Mr D 
and offered to waive interest for a further four months to support Mr D in repaying the 
amount he owed. I believe this was appropriate in the circumstances.
I dont believe MBNA were at fault for the charge back incident and its also clear it didnt 
result from anything Mr D did wrong either. Its unfortunate, but ultimately Mr D has received 
the funds  I dont believe thats in dispute. And the fact he then used those funds was his 
choice and not something I can hold MBNA responsible for. 
Given Mr D has benefitted financially, I dont think asking MBNA to write off what he owes 
would be a fair outcome. This would put Mr D in a better position than he was before the 
incident occurred by benefitting from the funds received. I appreciate Mr D will be 
disappointed, but I think MBNAs offer was a fair one here. And I dont think it would be fair 
to ask them to continue to waive further interest costs.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman