DRN-3854279
The complaint
Mr J complains about Nationwide Building Societys (Nationwides) actions in relation to 
money paid into, then recalled from, his account
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
here, Ill briefly summarise the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Mr Js mother sadly died in 2015. Lawyers were appointed to administer the estate. In early 
2020, Mr J contacted Nationwide and said he was in the process of obtaining probate for his 
mothers estate. It transferred the funds from his late mothers account, totalling £48,545.68, 
to his savings account. It then received contact from the lawyers administering the estate, 
who informed it that the estate was in dispute.
Nationwide says it transferred the funds in error as, at the time, it needed a Grant of Probate 
to transfer balances above £30,000 from a deceased consumers account. It might transfer 
lower balances without a Grant of Probate or Letters of Administration if those werent being 
applied for. It froze Mr Js account and recalled the payment. It also paid him £300 
compensation for adding to his upset and raising his expectations.
Unhappy with this response, Mr J referred his complaint about Nationwide to our service. He 
also told us about other parties involved in the matter whose actions he was unhappy with. 
Our investigator explained that we can only look at the issues relating to Mr Js own 
customer relationship with Nationwide. We cant look at issues relating to parties other than 
Nationwide. Nor can we consider a dispute between the estate and Nationwide  as Mr J 
hasnt shown he has authority to bring a complaint on behalf of the estate.
Within those parameters, the investigator thought Nationwide had resolved the matter fairly. 
She explained it could remove funds paid in error  and she thought had happened here, 
given Nationwide policy on closing deceased consumer accounts. She considered the 
compensation paid a fair reflection of the impact Nationwides errors had on Mr J  namely, 
raising his expectations and causing him stress and upset when his account was blocked.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2022, explaining why I was 
minded to agree with the investigators conclusions. Here are my provisional findings: 
I first want to clarify the scope of what Im considering. Thats because some of the 
information Mr J has provided throughout  such as about his dealings with the 
probate lawyers  dont fall with the remit of what our service can consider.
As weve set out to Mr J previously, our service is limited to considering those issue 
arising from him own customer relationship with Nationwide. That means we cant 
consider the actions of parties other than Nationwide. Additionally, this isnt a 
complaint hes bringing on behalf of the late Mrs Js estate  and weve not seen hed 
be authorised in law to do so. What we can, and what I have, considered is how 
Nationwide dealt with his own account.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im minded to 
conclude that Nationwide Building Society has fairly resolved this complaint.
Ill explain my reasons for reaching this conclusion below. In doing so, Im conscious 
Mr J has made extensive submissions to our service. Id reassure him that Ive 
carefully considered everything hes sent us. But I wont be responding in similar 
detail. If I dont comment on a point Mr J has made, or a piece of evidence hes 
provided, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on 
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects 
the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Im also conscious that Mr J has commented on what he considers to be the illegality 
of Nationwides actions. Our service takes relevant law (amongst other things) into 
account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a 
complaint. But a judgment about whether Nationwide required a court order, for 
example, would be a matter for the courts rather than for us.
Mr J has referred to the following information from Nationwides website, about its 
policy on deceased consumer accounts:
Closure of deceased customers' accounts
Where the balance of the deceased's sole accounts with Nationwide is less 
than £50,000 and no Grant of Probate or Letters of Administration are being 
applied for, the accounts may be closed upon completion of the Bereavement 
Request to close accounts form
Nationwide has explained this policy has been updated since Mr Js request for the 
funds from the late Mrs Js account. At that time, the term above only applied to 
balances less than £30,000. If so, the balance of the late Mrs Js account alone 
would indicate Nationwide acted in error by making the payment. 
In any event, the term refers to scenarios where no Grant of Probate or Letters of 
Administration are being applied for. Whereas my understanding is that Mr J told 
Nationwide he was in the process of getting probate. And it doesnt appear 
Nationwide was notified about the appointment of the lawyers administering the 
estate  who I understand went on to be granted letters of administration. Nor was it 
made aware of the dispute over the estate. Overall, I think Nationwide acted in error 
when making this payment  which it therefore went on to reverse.
Our role is to consider what position Mr J would have been in but for any errors by 
Nationwide. And as set out above, I do think the money was paid in error. 
Additionally, the funds paid were proceeds from an estate. As mentioned above, we 
havent seen records confirming that Mr J has the authority to act on behalf of the 
late Mrs Js estate. While I understand Mr J is unhappy with how the funds are being 
distributed, thats a matter for the estate (and the courts, if necessary) and not for our 
service. So Im limited to considering the personal impact on Mr J.
Mr J has suggested the funds were proceeds from a joint business account. But the 
records Ive seen dont support that. And if Mr J was a joint account holder alongside 
Mrs J, he wouldnt have needed to apply to the bank to release the funds to him in 
the first place  as he would already have access to the account. It appears to me 
that the account was held by only Mrs J.In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Nationwide is responsible for loss to Mr J 
personally beyond the distress and inconvenience caused by how it handled things. 
Paying the funds then removing them, blocking Mr Js account in the process, clearly 
caused him upset  and he was already dealing with a difficult and sensitive matter.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied the £300 compensation paid is a fair and 
reasonable reflection of the impact Nationwides errors had on Mr J. Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to direct Nationwide to make a further award.
I invited both parties to add further comments or evidence. Nationwide confirmed it didnt 
have anything to add. Mr J responded to reject my provisional findings.
Mr J feels the facts of his case have been overlooked. In summary, he says money was paid 
to him from his late mothers account in line with the law, specifically the Building Societies 
Act 1986. But this money was then removed by Nationwide at the instruction of a lawyer who 
Mr J says had no right to contact it about this account, and who also lied to it. 
Mr J is unhappy that my decision didnt set out the account terms regarding money paid into 
an account by mistake, which the investigator included in their view. He says the policy Ive 
quoted from Nationwides website doesnt form part of the terms. 
He also disputes that the funds were paid in error, as he says it was money owed to him; he 
says he has a legal right to these funds, including because he paid bills for his mother. He 
also says Nationwide breached the terms as it didnt notify him in advance. 
He also made a number of points about what happened on his late mothers account. And 
about the lawyers, and other parties aside from Nationwide, in relation to the estate. 
What Ive decided  and why
As in my provisional decision, Ill start by clarifying the scope of what Im considering. 
As a service, subject to the rules set out in the DISP section of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) handbook, our role is to settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
that provide financial services. So we can (subject to further considerations which Ill expand 
on below) look at Mr Js complaint about Nationwide. But we cant look into his dispute with 
other parties hes mentioned, such as the estate lawyers. 
The DISP rules also set out that we can only look into complaints about financial businesses 
if they arise from certain types of relationships with the business  such as a customer 
relationship (please see DISP Rule 2.7.6). In this case, I can look at Mr Js complaint so far 
as it relates to his own account with Nationwide, as that arises from his own customer 
relationship with Nationwide. But I cant consider a complaint from him personally about what 
Nationwide did on someone elses account. His concerns about the late Mrs Js account 
dont arise from his own customer relationship.
Although Mr J has suggested he was an account holder on the late Mrs Js account, thats 
not supported by the records he and Nationwide provided. He hasnt included anything in 
response to my provisional decision (or prior) to show he jointly owned the account.  
What Mr J has provided is a Key Product Information document for the type of account 
Mrs J held  a Monthly Income 60+ account. He says she specifically chose it as it allowed 
for a joint account holder. The fact the type of account allowed for a second account holder doesnt outweigh the 
records Ive seen for Mr J and the late Mrs Js account holdings suggesting she was the sole 
account holder. In any event, the product information explains that, while there can be two 
account holders, all account holders must be aged 60 or over. The date of birth Mr J has 
provided suggests hes under 60. So he wasnt eligible to be a joint account holder alongside 
Mrs J. 
As such, Id only be able to consider a complaint from Mr J about what happened on the late 
Mrs Js account if he was authorised by law to raise a complaint on her behalf (see DISP 
Rule 2.7.2). 
Mr J has, at points, asserted that he has the legal right to complain on behalf of the estate. 
But he hasnt provided court documentation to support this. In fact, when our investigator 
asked for these documents, what Mr J provided shows the court has granted someone else 
administration of the late Mrs Js estate. Its for the court-appointed administrator to 
determine the distribution of the estate, including the funds subject to this complaint. It would 
be inappropriate for me to interfere with this. 
My decision is therefore limited to what happened on Mr Js account. Within that scope, Ive 
considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Nationwide has fairly resolved this complaint  largely for the 
reasons given in my provisional findings, which are set out above and form part of my final 
decision. Ive therefore focussed below on responding to the particular points Mr J has 
raised following my provisional decision. 
Mr J disputes that the funds were paid to him in error. He says he has a legal right to these 
funds. But as set out above, Im not looking at whether the estate owes him money. Im 
looking at whether it was fair for Nationwide, in line with its own terms and procedures, to 
remove the money  as that is ultimately what Mr J has complained about. And that will be 
impacted by whether the payment into the account was made in error.  
Mr J has cited schedule seven of the Buildings Societies Act 1986. It sets out the 
circumstances in which a building society may pay out an amount a person claims to be 
beneficially entitled to under the will or the applicable law of intestacy without probate of the 
will or grant of letters of administration or confirmation. But this only applies if the deceased 
person is leaving a sum of money in the funds of the society not exceeding £5,000. Whereas 
the funds in the late Mrs Js accounts with Nationwide were for a higher amount. 
Even if the funds had been under £5,000, the schedule only says that a building society may 
pay the funds without further documentation, rather than requiring them to do so. Overall, I 
dont consider this schedule relevant to the fairness of Nationwides actions. 
What I have relied on is Nationwides procedure for deceased customers, as published on its 
website. While Mr J has raised that this information doesnt form part of the account terms, 
Id point out that this is something he referenced and relied on in his submissions  
suggesting he recognises the relevance it has to this dispute. And I think its clear that this is 
relevant to my judgment on whether Nationwide acted fairly when it paid, then removed, 
funds which originated from a deceased customers account. To determine whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, I need to look at all relevant factors  not 
just the account terms. As set out in my provisional findings, Im persuaded Nationwide made an error when it paid 
the funds from the late Mrs Js account to Mr J as it didnt follow its own procedure. Subject 
to the balance, on the death of the account holder, the account can be closed on completion 
of the Bereavement Request form without the need for court documentation relating to the 
estate. But thats only the case if no Grant of Probate or Letters of Administration are being 
applied for. 
When Mr J contacted Nationwide to close the late Mrs Js account and receive the funds, he 
told it he was applying for probate. The records hes provided support this. They show he did 
apply, but his application was stopped by request of the lawyer who has since been 
appointed administrator of the estate. This means Nationwide was wrong to pay the funds. 
I also consider the ongoing dispute between Mr J and the estate lawyers relevant here. I 
consider it reasonable for Nationwide to act to limit any legal risk. Regardless of the 
allegations Mr J has raised, the lawyer who got in touch had clearly been dealing with the 
estate. And hes since been appointed administrator of the estate by the courts. So when 
Nationwide was contacted and told about the dispute regarding the estate, that was new 
information which it had to take into account. 
Given that Nationwide had breached its own procedure in the first place, and in response to 
the contact from the estate lawyer, I consider it fair and reasonable that Nationwide removed 
the funds from Mr Js account. Putting aside any claim against the estate  which Id 
reiterate its not appropriate for me to comment on  that puts him back in the financial 
position hed be in but for Nationwides error in making this payment.
The terms and conditions regarding mistaken payments, which our investigator included in 
her view, are as follows:
If someone has paid money into your account by mistake, we may be asked to pay it 
back. If we receive a request to return a payment, we will investigate and if we 
reasonably believe the request to be legitimate, we will stop you withdrawing those 
funds while we try to contact you. If you do not tell us that you do not agree that the 
payment has been made into your account by mistake, by the date set out in our 
communication to you, we will deduct the money from your account and return it.
If we do not return money which the payer's bank believes has been paid into your 
account by mistake, we are legally obliged to provide information to the payer's bank 
about you, your account and the payment in order that the payer can seek to recover 
the money.
Mr J says Nationwide breached this as it didnt notify him before withdrawing the money. As 
set out in my provisional findings, I do agree there were failings by Nationwide in how it 
handled things. Such as failing to keep Mr J informed when it blocked his account and 
removed the funds. But I dont ultimately think that means Nationwide were wrong to remove 
the funds. 
However, I accept that Nationwides service failings did have an impact on Mr J. For the 
reasons set out in my provisional findings, Im satisfied the £300 compensation it has paid is 
a fair and reasonable reflection of this. His response hasnt persuaded me that the distress 
and inconvenience he suffered as a result warrants a further award.
Id like to reassure Mr J that Ive reviewed his case very carefully. While its not my place to 
comment on the wider issues hes informed about, I do understand, and Ive considered, 
how they feed into the dispute Ive considered. Having done so, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to hold Nationwide liable 
for the payment it returned  or to direct it to do anything else to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Nationwide Building Society doesnt 
need to do anything more to settle this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman