DRN-2951561
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Platform, has declined to 
extend the term of their interest-only mortgage, as they have requested.  
What happened
In 2006 Mr and Mrs M took out an interest only mortgage with Platform. They borrowed just 
over £200,000 over a term of 13 years, meaning the mortgage was due to be repaid in July 
2019. Mr and Mrs M have said that their plan for repaying the mortgage is to sell their 
existing property and downsize, using the remaining equity, and that this has always been 
their intention.
In June 2019 an informal one-year extension to the mortgage was agreed, with Mr and 
Mrs M continuing to make interest payments during that time.
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs M asked Platform to extend the term of their mortgage by a further 
two years to July 2022. They explained that their property was on the market but, due to the 
pandemic and them being required to shield, while there was continued interest, theyd been 
unable to have viewings. And likewise, they couldnt currently view new properties to move 
to. As a result, they requested the extension of two years to allow them to sell their existing 
property and repay the mortgage, while accounting for the ongoing uncertainty. They noted 
that the balance due to Platform was less than 30% of the price they were advertising their 
property for sale at, so the risk to Platform was minimal.
Platform declined to extend the term for two years but said it would place a hold on the 
account, and take no further action, until the end of December 2020  allowing a six-month 
extension, at which point it would review matters again.
Mr and Mrs M said they felt this wasnt fair and didnt take account of their vulnerability. Mr M 
explained that, in addition to he and Mrs M having to shield, the pandemic had also impacted 
Mrs Ms mental health  for which she was receiving treatment  and that this had meant 
they still could not permit viewings of the property. And they said, the short-term extensions 
proposed were causing her unnecessary additional worry and impacting her recovery. They 
felt there was little prospect of being able to sell the property by the end of December 2020 
so asked that Platform reconsider their request to extend the term to July 2022.
Platform again declined the request  saying that there was no guarantee the situation 
surrounding the pandemic and Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances would be resolved by July 
2022 to allow a sale to take place. But it said, as a compromise, it would extend the informal 
arrangement, in respect of the term, it had previously agreed until July 2021.
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy as they felt Platform was not listening to them. They noted 
as an example that it had called them using their landline a week after being asked not to, as 
this was distressing Mrs M. Platform apologised for this and paid Mr and Mrs M £25. But it 
still said it was unwilling to agree to their request. So, Mr and Mrs M asked our service to 
consider their complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 explaining that I was inclined to uphold Mr 
and Mrs Ms complaint. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining why I 
thought this.
The mortgage agreement made between Mr and Mrs M and Platform was that, when the 
term expired in July 2019, the balance owed would be repaid. So, I dont think it is 
unreasonable that Platform expected this to happen. And indeed, Mr and Mrs M have 
agreed that Platform was due to be repaid and theyve said they were grateful it agreed to 
the twelve-month extension, granted in June 2019, and that this was most welcome.
The issue Im being asked to decide is whether the subsequent decision not to agree an 
extension until July 2022 was fair.
Platform has explained that it initially extended the term on an informal basis. And has said 
that it feels it is reasonable that it continues to manage the account on this basis  rather 
than a formal term extension. It has said that to extend the term formally, the mortgage 
would need to be converted to a repayment basis, and as Mr and Mrs M intend to sell the 
property, this wasnt appropriate.
There is no regulatory requirement that I can see that means the mortgage would need to be 
converted onto a repayment basis for the term to be formally extended. Interest only 
mortgage agreements are still allowed to continue. It is true that, following the mortgage 
market review, lenders were required to assess the affordability of interest only mortgages, 
and the viability of any repayment strategy supporting these types of mortgages, more 
closely.
But the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, also put in place rules to ensure that 
existing mortgage customers were not unfairly penalised by these changes, including 
allowing a lender to waive certain requirements around assessing affordability in certain 
circumstances. As existing customers, pre-dating the mortgage market review, not asking for 
any new borrowing I think Mr and Mrs M fall into the category of customers where certain 
requirements could in fact be waived, if the change to the mortgage - here a term extension - 
was in their best interests.
So, the requirement for this mortgage to convert to a repayment basis for the term to be 
formally extended, that Platform has mentioned, in fact seems to come from its lending 
criteria. And Platform has provided extracts from these criteria to support this. But the 
information weve been provided also says that a term extension on an interest only basis up 
to a period of two years can be considered by Platform  which is what Mr and Mrs M 
requested. And the information provided to our service also says that, in any event, it might 
be appropriate for Platform to agree a solution outside of its regular criteria in certain 
circumstances.
With this in mind, Im not sure that Platforms position that a formal term extension wasnt an 
option, is necessarily correct. As to me it appears that it was. Given though it has rejected 
this request anyway on an informal basis, I dont know that a formal application wouldve 
been approved. So, the decision to manage the account on an informal basis doesnt itself 
appear to have put Mr and Mrs M in a different position.
And I dont think informal arrangements were necessarily unfair anyway. The need for the 
second extension to the term was driven by the pandemic and how this impacted Mr and 
Mrs M. This has been an unprecedented and ever-changing situation. So, I can see the 
argument for the more flexible, informal approach being appropriate as a result.
But just because Platform was handling the account informally, this didnt mean it couldnt have agreed to the requested extension to the repayment deadline. So, Ive thought about 
whether it acted fairly when it didnt agree to this.
The mortgage appears to have been up to date and paid on time for the majority of the time 
Mr and Mrs M held it. And theyve continued to pay interest each month since the original 
term expired. Ive seen nothing to indicate they are struggling to meet their monthly interest 
only payments or that their situation is due to change any time soon. And the loan to value 
ratio of the mortgage is approximately 30%, when compared with the sale price Mr and
Mrs M are hoping to achieve for their property. So, I think the risk to Platform of informally 
extending the time to repay, was and is low  which explains it agreeing to do so several 
times. The issue more seems to be the duration of the extension Mr and Mrs M asked for.
Mr and Mrs M initially requested the extension of the term to July 2022, in July 2020  a two- 
year extension. And at that point, they explained that they were shielding due to health 
conditions, and so viewings of their property couldnt go ahead. Im conscious that just 
because a two-year term extension was requested, that doesnt mean Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve necessarily needed a full two years to repay the mortgage. Theyve been 
consistent in explaining they wanted to sell their property and repay the mortgage as soon 
as they could, partly because their house was becoming more difficult to manage due to its 
size. So, Platform could I think have agreed to the extension at that point, with the situation 
still potentially being resolved sooner.
I dont though think Platforms decision at that time to decline to extend the term for two 
years was unfair. As Ive said there was a great deal of uncertainty around the pandemic. 
But there was also an easing of restrictions around that time. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Platform to think, based on the reasons it had been given at that point for 
the extension being required, that there was the possibility that viewings mightve been 
possible in the shorter term. And that the sale of the property, and repayment of the 
mortgage, could go ahead sooner and that two years might not be necessary.
But while I dont think the decision to decline the request in July 2020 was unfair, I think 
Platforms subsequent decisions not to change its position were.
In October 2020 Mr and Mrs M made Platform aware that, not only had the pandemic 
impacted them as they were at risk and had needed to shield, this had also significantly 
impacted Mrs Ms mental health and that she was being treated for this.
Theyve been very clear with Platform what the impact has been, and why this has meant 
arranging viewings to sell the property wasnt possible, until Mrs M had recovered. And Mr M 
subsequently explained to Platform in March 2021 that Mrs Ms recovery is being 
significantly hindered by Platform not agreeing to a longer-term extension. This was because 
the stress of having shorter deadlines to repay the mortgage, through the sale of the 
property, has meant Mrs M being fearful that litigation could start. So, she has been 
concerned about having to arrange viewings sooner to avoid this, while not recovered, 
causing further distress and making matters worse, meaning it would take her longer to 
recover. Which in turn is delaying viewings further and creating an unending cycle.Platform has said that, because the matter was being handled informally, the short-term 
extensions of six months at a time were not intended to be threatening or represent dates on 
which, without agreement, litigation wouldve started. It has said it was still willing to review 
matters again, when those planned repayments dates were due to occur. So, there was no 
need for Mr and Mrs M to be unduly concerned. And I appreciate its point. But Mr M has 
explained that the knowledge of these dates, which Mrs M is entitled to know as an account 
holder, and their proximity being only a matter of months away, was perpetuating Mrs Ms 
distress and ill health  regardless of these reassurances. And I think this explanation is 
reasonable.
I think the reasons given for requiring a longer extension, until July 2022, were clear and 
logical. And I think they make it clear that the extension requested was in Mr and Mrs Ms 
best interests. And I also think they illustrate that allowing this longer grace period initially 
was also potentially in Platforms best interests.
So, based on Mr and Mrs Ms individual circumstances, I dont think, after Mr and Mrs M 
appealed and provided a further explanation of the reasons for the request, Platform acted 
fairly by declining their request for an informal repayment extension to July 2022. I think the 
information at that stage was clear that agreeing this was in Mr and Mrs Ms best interest 
and the risk involved to Platform was low. So, I think the requested extension shouldve been 
granted.
Although things have moved on somewhat now, to address matters, Mr and Mrs M have just 
asked that the requested extension for repayment now be granted  giving them twelve 
months to allow Mrs M to recover and the property be sold. And theyve asked that Platform 
refrain from contacting them for updates every couple of months, as this impacts Mrs Ms 
condition.
Given I dont think Platform treated them fairly previously, I think this is a fair way to put 
matters right. Im conscious though that it is now less than twelve months until July 2022. So, 
Im currently minded to recommend that Platform actually provide an extension of twelve 
months from the date of my decision, for repayment to be made. I also think the request for it 
to refrain from contacting Mr and Mrs M is fair. Although I think this should only be until July 
2022. I think itd be reasonable then for it to make enquiries about how matters are 
progressing, if it hasnt already heard from Mr and Mrs M by that time. It may still be 
necessary for Platform to send certain letters during that time, for regulatory reasons. I think 
it is reasonable that it continues to do so. To be clear, Mr and Mrs M would need to continue 
to make the required monthly repayments. And if they didnt do so, I think itd be reasonable 
in that scenario that Platform would need to contact them.
Mr and Mrs M have acknowledged that, if the sale of the property has not been concluded by 
the end of the extension, they may have to enter into alternative arrangements with Platform 
 such as an assisted sale. And I think itd be reasonable for that and other options to be 
discussed at that point, as at the end of the suggested extension, the mortgage will be over 
three years beyond the end of the original term.
Turning to the issue of the phone call Platform made after it was asked not to use a specific 
contact number, Platform has acknowledged that an error was made. I understand it paid Mr 
and Mrs M £25 for the upset caused by this. In the circumstances, I think this was 
reasonable. So, I dont intend to require it to do anything more in respect of that issue.Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Mr and Mrs M said they accepted my findings and recommendations.
Platform did not respond to my provisional decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has provided anything further for me to consider, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the same reasons given in those 
findings, and summarised above, I think the decision by Platform to decline Mr and Mrs Ms 
request to extend the time by which they were required to repay their mortgage was unfair. 
This was because the request was reasonable, theyd explained why it was needed and it 
wouldve been in their best interests.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
To put things right I order The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Platform, to allow Mr and 
Mrs M a 12-month extension to repay the outstanding balance on their mortgage  effective 
from the date of this final decision. 
It should also refrain from contacting Mr and Mrs M for updates until July 2022  unless the 
agreement is broken through the contractual monthly repayments being missed.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman