DRN-3369053
The complaint
Miss C complains that EOS Solutions UK Plc is seeking to recover debts that were written 
off by the original lender. 
What happened
Miss C had two loans with another business (W) that closed in default. 
In July 2019 EOS sent Miss C a notice of assignment and explained it had purchased the 
debts in her name and asked her to make contact so payments could be discussed.  
In December 2019 liquidators issued a statement after W went out of business. The 
liquidators said that any outstanding loan balances due to W as at the date of liquidation (16 
December 2019) wouldnt be collected. 
Miss C went on to complain and said that W had previously written to her to confirm the 
outstanding balances were no longer owed. EOS didnt agree it had made a mistake by 
asking Miss C to make repayments. Miss C referred her complaint to this service and it was 
passed to an investigator. He didnt think EOS had acted unfairly by asking Miss C to repay 
the debts it had purchased in her name. Miss C asked to appeal, so her complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C has told us W wrote to her to confirm the outstanding balances were no longer owed. 
And shes also pointed out that W has gone out of business and says that should mean she 
doesnt have to make further repayments. But I havent seen any evidence to support what 
Miss C has told us. Miss C hasnt sent us a copy of Ws letter. In addition, whilst I 
understand W has gone out of business, Miss Cs loan accounts were sold to EOS in July 
2019, before the liquidators stepped in. So Miss Cs accounts had already been sold when 
W closed. 
Ive looked at the other supporting information to see whether it indicates the debts had been 
repaid or written off. When W sold the accounts to EOS it also provided associated 
documentation. I can see weve been sent account histories, copies of correspondence from 
Miss Cs IVA practitioners, notices of default and direct debit mandates amongst other 
documents. I can also see that EOS sent Miss C Notices of Assignment for both the 
accounts it purchased in July 2019. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C but I havent been persuaded that EOS has acted unfairly 
when requesting repayment of the debts it acquired from W. Im satisfied the information 
available shows EOS did purchase two debts in Miss Cs name and that it has a legitimate 
reason to contact her for repayment. As I havent found that EOS treated Miss C unfairly, Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
EOS recently told us it intends to start legal action to recover the debts in question. Miss C 
may wish to contact EOS to discuss the status of her accounts and what it intends to do 
next. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman