DRN-2581934
The complaint
 Mr G is unhappy about the service he received from N26 Bank GmbH when he raised a 
chargeback claim.
What happened
 Mr G purchased some flights using his N26 Bank debit card. Mr G didnt receive 
confirmation of the flight booking or any flight tickets and therefore wasnt able to use them. 
He raised a chargeback dispute with N26 in July 2019, but they refused to investigate and 
said he was out of time under the chargeback rules.
Mr G complained and following the involvement of our service N26 reviewed the chargeback 
claim again. N26 realised theyd made an error and confirmed Mr G did raise the chargeback 
claim in time. N26 offered Mr G a full refund for the flights he purchased and wasnt able to 
use.
N26 tried to get in touch with Mr G directly between May 2020 and August 2020 for his bank 
details so they could process the refund. Mr G didnt respond and when he did, he contacted 
N26 from an unverified email address. N26 said they couldnt communicate with Mr G from 
an unverified email address due to security  and as theyre an online digital bank, they dont 
have the facilities to phone or send letters unless under exceptional circumstances. N26 
were also unable to amend Mr Gs email address as hed asked. 
In October 2020, Mr G gave his bank details to our investigator who sent them to N26 and 
asked for some further information to look into Mr Gs complaint in full. 
Mr G told the investigator he also thought N26 had added a CIFAS marker to his credit file. 
The investigator explained shed look into this as part of the complaint and asked N26 about 
it.
In January 2021, N26 responded to the investigators information request and processed the 
refund to Mr G. They also added 8% simple interest to the amount they refunded Mr G and 
offered £100 compensation in recognition of the service Mr G had received due to initially 
rejecting his chargeback claim. 
The investigator reviewed the complaint and in summary said;
She was satisfied N26 couldnt communicate with Mr G as he was using an 
unverified email address;
N26 had issued Mr G with a full refund from his chargeback claim and added 8% 
simple interest;
She couldnt see any evidence that N26 had added a CIFAS marker to Mr Gs credit 
file;
She thought £100 compensation plus the 8% simple interest was enough to put 
things right for Mr G in the circumstances.
Mr G didnt agree. He said he wanted £300 compensation on top of the 8% simple interest.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
In February 2021, I got in touch with N26 and let them know that I didnt think £100 
compensation was enough. I said I thought N26 had caused delays when refunding Mr G 
and I thought more compensation (around £200) should be warranted. N26 responded and 
offered an additional £50 compensation. Mr G didnt accept this and said he would accept 
£200 which N26 didnt agree to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im going to ask N26 to pay Mr G additional compensation. Ive explained 
further below.
Its not in dispute that N26 made an error when reviewing Mr Gs initial chargeback claim. 
They said he was out of time under the chargeback rules but after reviewing things again 
realised theyd made an error. Im pleased to see N26 have recognised this error by offering 
Mr G £100 compensation for the poor service he received.
In May 2020, when N26 agreed to refund Mr G in full for the flights, they tried to get in touch 
with him using the email address they held on their system. They attempted to email Mr G 
twice  once in May 2020 and again in June 2020, but they didnt receive a response. In 
August 2020 Mr G got in touch with N26 asking for an update  he emailed them from an 
unverified email address. All banks and building societies have security processes in place 
which they must adhere to. N26 have explained that due to these security processes, they 
were unable to communicate with Mr G through an unverified email address. While I 
recognise the frustration this would have caused Mr G, I cant fairly uphold his complaint on 
this part. I think N26 were applying their security processes in the right way  and to protect 
Mr G overall. If an unauthorised person contacted N26 and provided bank details on behalf 
of Mr G and they processed the refund, Mr G would have been at a loss. I recognise this 
wasnt the case and it was in fact Mr G who was contacting N26, but I think N26 took the 
appropriate actions to protect Mr G as they couldnt verify it was him who was emailing them. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied this delay was the cause of N26.
In October 2020, Mr G gave his bank details to our investigator who was considering his 
complaint once she told him that N26 were happy to refund the full amount for the flights. 
From the telephone conversation between Mr G and the investigator Im satisfied this was 
the first time Mr G became aware that his chargeback refund had been agreed. The 
investigator forwarded Mr Gs bank details to N26 without delay and asked them to process 
the refund. As part of this, the investigator also requested for some additional information 
from N26 to allow her to fully investigate Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G got back in touch with the investigator regarding a new complaint point  he thought 
N26 had added a CIFAS marker to his file. The investigator contacted N26 about this so she 
could consider it as part of the overall complaint. 
In January 2021, N26 responded to the investigator with the information shed asked for. 
They confirmed they didnt add a CIFAS marker and also processed the refund to Mr G. Im 
aware N26 wanted some time to look into the new complaint points raised by Mr G and this 
was the reason for the delay in their response and processing the refund. However, I havent 
seen anything to satisfy me that N26 couldnt have made the refund pending the 
investigation of the new complaint points. N26 had already made the decision that Mr G was 
entitled to the chargeback refund and attempted to do that in May 2020 when they contacted him. And while I recognise there were new complaint points and it would have been easier 
for them to make one payment after a full investigation, I dont think thats fair on Mr G. 
Mr G made a legitimate chargeback claim in July 2019 and didnt receive the money until 
January 2021. I recognise Mr G caused some of those delays by not communicating with 
N26 through his verified email address. However, I think in October 2020 when N26 received 
the bank details from our service, they should have processed the refund rather than waiting 
to investigate new complaint points. The delay left Mr G without his money for a further three 
months. Im pleased N26 have added 8% simple interest to the refund amount as this 
reflects the time he was without the funds. However, I do think more than £100 
compensation is warranted.
N26 explained their initial offer of £100 was for the service Mr G received when he was told 
he was too late to make a chargeback claim. So, I think additional compensation is 
warranted for the delay between October 2020  when N26 could have processed the refund 
 and January 2021 when they did process the refund. I consider an additional £100 fairly 
reflects this time frame.
Like the investigator, I havent seen any evidence that N26 added a CIFAS marker to Mr Gs 
credit file. And therefore, I dont think they need to do anything differently.
Im aware Mr G has additional complaints with N26 but I must stress this decision focuses on 
the circumstances of this complaint only. 
Putting things right
 In summary, I think N26 have fairly recognised the distress and inconvenience caused when 
they initially rejected Mr Gs chargeback claim by paying £100 compensation. 
However, I think they caused delays between October 2020  January 2021 and therefore, I 
consider additional compensation should be paid. N26 should pay Mr G an additional £100 
compensation on top of the amount already paid to him, and the 8% simple interest.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
To put things right N26 Bank GmbH should:
Pay Mr G an additional £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman