DRN-2443827
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was given unsuitable advice from J. Edward Sellars & Partners 
Limited (JES) and that he has suffered a financial loss.
Mr W is represented by his son in this complaint, Mr W.
What happened
In 2014, Mr W transferred his portfolio to JES following the retirement of his previous 
financial advisor. Mr W met with JES in July 2014 and the initial meting was used to discuss 
the platform and the charges involved. JES took Mr W through the different levels of service 
that they offered, and Mr W decided that he wished to use the Advisory Managed Service.
A further meeting took place between Mr W and JES on October 2014. JES took Mr W 
through a fact find exercise to allow them to understand Mr Ws personal and financial 
circumstances. JES also discussed Mr Ws attitude to risk and this was recorded as medium. 
The meeting was also used to discuss Mr Ws current investments and some changes were 
suggested and these were carried out.
In 2015, JES took Mr W through another fact find exercise  this being something the 
business did every year. In this fact find, Mr W had marked his attitude to risk as being lower 
than the 2014 fact find. JES asked questions around this and Mr W said that he was 
comfortable with what he held in his portfolio. JES said that they may de-risk the portfolio 
over the next year, but Mr W said he was happy to be classified as a medium risk. The fact 
find notes that Mr W changed to a Discretionary Service at this time.
The 2016 fact find records an attitude to risk score of Cautious but there is a note to say that 
Mr W is happy to stay as medium risk. The 2017 fact find has slightly different criteria for 
measuring attitude to risk and Mr W was recorded as having a Moderate attitude to risk. 
There are no notes on risk by JES on this fact find.
JES say that there was some difficulty in completing the 2018 fact find and the 2019 fact find 
was completed by Mr W. This shows an attitude to risk of Balanced.
In 2019, Mr W complained to JES and said that he had been given unsuitable advice given 
his attitude to risk. Mr W said that he believed that the assessment of risk had been 
inappropriate and that he has been exposed to a higher level of risk as a result. Mr W said 
that had his investments been left as they were when he transferred to JES, he would have 
had a better return. Mr W said that he had suffered an 18% loss.
JES investigated Mr Ws complaint but did not think that they had done anything wrong. 
They said the portfolio was run based on the fact find exercises that were completed, and 
the investments were consistent with Mr Ws attitude to risk. JES did not uphold the 
complaint.
Unhappy with JESs decision, Mr W referred his complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator did not think that JES had acted 
unfairly and did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr W has asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
will not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr W feels strongly about this and I will 
explain why I have reached this decision.
When a business provides advice to a consumer it has to consider various details such as 
the consumers personal and financial circumstances. It also needs to consider the 
consumers attitude to risk and the ability to bear losses. The business should consider the 
consumers investment goals and what they wish to achieve. These details are normally 
captured via a fact find exercise and the details recorded. Based on the results of the fact 
find, the business will provide advice which suits the clients circumstances.
I have reviewed the documentation available to me and can see that JES took Mr W through 
fact find exercises and recorded his answers. As I have said, the business will normally use 
the answers from the fact find to tailor their recommendation on what investments to buy, 
sell or hold. 
It is noticeable that the fact finds from 2014 to 2019 record that Mr W had an attitude to risk 
which would have placed him towards a more risk averse rating. JES noticed this and made 
a point of recording Mr Ws responses where a fact find was completed. In each of the years 
where JES challenged the answers provided on the fact find, Mr W said that he felt 
comfortable with being regarded as having a risk tolerance of medium.
The 2014 definition of medium says:
As a medium risk investor you are typically someone who is more comfortable with short 
term fluctuations in the value of your investments; you generally focus on gain as well as 
risk, you desire to invest in a broad spread of quality investments and are comfortable with a 
proportion of your portfolio being exposed to FTSE 250 companies.
When the 2015 fact find was completed, Mr W is noted as having a score of 15 out of 40. 
This recorded him as having an attitude to risk of Cautious. As this was different to the 2014 
rating, JES asked Mr W about the risk rating and the file note records:
Mr W has scored as a cautious client from his factfind. On discussing the risks involved with 
his current portfolio he has mentioned that he is comfortable with what he holds. I mentioned 
that we may look to de-risk the portfolio over the next year. He has said that he has held 
shares in the past and only gets concerned when values are depressed. He has confirmed 
that he would still like to be classified as medium risk but this will be periodically reviewed.
It appears that a conversation with Mr W took place in which he was comfortable with his 
previous rating of medium and was happy with his existing holdings which would have been 
purchased under a medium rating.The 2016 fact find records a risk rating score of 14 out of 40. This recorded Mr W as again 
having a risk rating of Cautious. JES asked Mr W about the risk rating and the file note 
records:
Mr W has initially scored as a Cautious Investor, previously he has scored as Medium. He 
has requested to stay as medium, I have made him aware of the extra risks associated with 
this risk profile, he confirmed that he is happy with this.
I would expect a business to speak to the consumer when there is an apparent discrepancy 
between what the fact find records and the risk rating that they hold on their system. JES 
had this conversation with Mr W in 2016.
In 2017, the fact find records a score of 19 which according to the ratings would score as 
Moderate but the fact find has Balanced highlighted. The fact find records that Mr W was 
happy with the risk rating.
It does not appear that a fact find was completed in 2018 but Im unable to find a reason for 
this.
Mr W completed a fact find in February 2019 and recorded his score as 15 giving a risk 
rating of Balanced.
JES say that Mr W wrote to them in July 2019 expressing concern at the volatility of the 
market and his portfolio. JES say that a conversation took place with Mr W around the risk 
profile and it was agreed that the risk rating should be changed to Defensive. A defensive 
profile is noted as:
Whilst your main concern is capital preservation, you are also looking for a slightly higher 
rate of investment return than is associated with being a Cautious Investor. You are 
prepared to take on a little more risk in order to try and stay ahead of inflation. When you 
make a financial decision you will normally focus on the potential for losses but accept that 
the value of investments (and income generated from them) will rise and fall to a greater 
extent when compared to a Cautious portfolio. You will generally be unsuitable for individual 
stocks and shares due to their volatile nature, as such we will only recommend to you 
collective investments such as funds, some of which will have a higher risk rating when 
compared to a Cautious portfolio.
As I have previously said, when a business is providing advice to a consumer it must be 
aware of the personal circumstances and take these into consideration. From the 
documentation that I have seen, I think that JES took Mr W through the fact find exercises 
and their submissions record that they challenged the results that arose from the risk ratings. 
From what I have seen, I dont think that JES have acted unfairly here as they have sought 
to establish the risk rating that Mr W was comfortable with.
In his submission to the service, Mr W says that he believed that his father was led by the 
adviser to make these decisions. He says that his father was confused by the differing 
terminology that was used. Although I sympathise with what Mr W says, I cant see any 
evidence of this on file.  I acknowledge that I wasnt present at these meetings and I cant 
say for certain what was discussed or how the conversations would have gone. From what I 
have seen, I think that on the balance of probability, the adviser explained what these terms 
meant and the consequence of how the portfolio would be managed.
Mr W says that he has been financially disadvantaged by how the portfolio was run and that 
the advice was unsuitable. From the documentation available to me, I think that JES gave 
suitable advice based on the information provided by Mr W. The performance of the portfolio is not something that the service can consider as investments can fluctuate in value and 
there is no guarantee that the consumer will receive more than originally invested.
Mr Ws son has also said that JES followed an investment strategy with a very high level of 
churn (buying and selling holdings very quickly) which appeared more speculative than even 
medium risk. I have looked specifically at this point and asked JES for further information on 
transactions. I am satisfied that the reasoning behind the transactions that I reviewed were 
sound and reasonable in the circumstances.
In summary, I think that JES were entitled to rely on the information provided and they 
double checked that Mr W was comfortable with the risk ratings that were applied to the 
portfolio. I think the advice was suitable and I wont be asking JES to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman