DRN-4264456
The complaint
Ms O and Mr R complain that Astrenska Insurance Limited hasnt paid them a pro-rata 
refund of premium after they cancelled their travel insurance policy mid-term.
Mr R brought the complaint to us, so for ease, Ive referred mainly to him. All references to 
Astrenska include the agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr R took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker. The policy was underwritten by Astrenska and it provided cover for up to 120 days 
travel.
Mr R wanted to extend his policy to cover more than 120 days travel. So in February 2023, 
he contacted Astrenska to ask if the cover could be increased. Astrenska told Mr R that this 
wasnt possible. Mr R therefore cancelled the policy and requested a pro-rata refund of 
premium for the remaining period left on the contract.
Astrenska declined to pay Mr R any premium refund. It said the policy terms made it clear 
that refunds would only be paid if a policyholder cancelled their contract within the 14-day 
cooling-off period following the policy purchase.
Mr R was unhappy with Astrenskas decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
felt the policy documentation hed received indicated that if the policy was cancelled after the 
cooling-off period, hed be entitled to a pro-rata refund of premium. He also said that hed 
never received a copy of the contract terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. He didnt agree that the 
policy terms meant that Mr R was entitled to a premium refund. He considered the contract 
terms and the fact that Mr R had already travelled and benefited from policy cover. So he felt 
that it had been fair for Astrenska to retain the full premium Mr R had paid. 
Mr R disagreed. He maintained that he hadnt received a copy of the policy terms and 
conditions. And he didnt agree with the investigators interpretation of the information set out 
in the policy schedule. He accepted that Astrenska had been on risk while the policy was in 
force. But he considered that at the point the policy was cancelled, Astrenska was no longer 
bearing any risk of him making a claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr R, I dont think it was unfair for 
Astrenska to decline to refund any part of his premium and Ill explain why.
First, its important I make it clear that this decision will only consider Astrenskas actions as 
the policy underwriter. It wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy  which was sold by a 
broker. It was the brokers responsibility to send Mr R the policy terms and conditions and 
relevant documentation  it wasnt down to Astrenska to send this information on to him. 
Astrenskas role here was to consider whether Mr R was contractually entitled to any 
premium refund when he cancelled the policy mid-term.
So Ive carefully considered (amongst other things), the relevant regulators rules and 
relevant law; the policy documentation and the contract terms to decide whether I think 
Astrenska treated Mr R fairly.
Page six of the policy terms and conditions sets out a section called Cancellation within the 
first 14 days. This says:
You have the right to cancel up to 14 days from the date your policy commences, or the 
date on which you receive your policy documentation, whichever is the later.
You will receive a full refund except in the following circumstances:
Your cover has commenced. A pro rata refund will be given.
You have made or are intending to make a claim. No refund will be given or we will 
recover the monies paid to you in settlement of the claim before refunding the 
premium paid.
Immediately underneath is a section called Your cancellation rights. This says:
After the statutory cooling-off period you may cancel the policy at any time by contacting us, 
but no refund of premium will be available. (My emphasis added).
The welcome email Mr R was sent in September 2022, (to which his policy schedule, along 
with new business information and the Insurance Product Information Document was 
attached) stated that the policy book (the terms and conditions) was enclosed. The 
information was located in Mr Rs account with his broker. This email would indicate that Mr 
R had received policy documentation in September 2022. Astrenska says the policy 
documentation was also reissued the day after the policy sale. And Mr R appears to agree 
that he received at least the policy schedule and new business documents. Overall, based 
on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that he did receive an online copy 
of the policy documents, even if Mr R cant now recall it.
Cover under the policy began in September 2022 and was due to end in September 2023. 
However, the policy was cancelled in February 2023. Im satisfied then that this was clearly 
outside of the cooling-off period and that under the terms of the policy, Mr R isnt entitled to 
any refund of the premium he paid. 
Mr R feels strongly that the information set out on page six of the policy schedule contradicts 
the terms of the contract. Ive thought about this very carefully. The schedule says:
Cancellation of your policy
You have the right to cancel up to 14 days from the date your policy commences, or the date 
on which you receive your policy documentation, whichever is the later.
You will receive a full refund except in the following circumstances: Your cover has commenced. A pro-rata refund will be given.
 You have made or are intending to make a claim. No refund will be given or we will recover 
the monies paid to you in settlement of the claim before refunding the premium paid.
In my view, this clause reiterates the contract terms relating to cancellation within the 
cooling-off period. It simply sets out the exceptions when a full refund of premium wont be 
paid if the policy is cancelled within the 14-day cooling-off period. It doesnt indicate that a 
pro-rata refund will be paid after the cooling-off period has ended and I dont find the 
schedule to be unclear on misleading on this point. This means then that I dont find the 
policy schedule entitles Mr R to any premium refund either.
I sympathise with Mr Rs position, because I understand he paid a significant amount of 
money for a contract which he cancelled early. But overall, I find that Astrenska declined to 
pay Mr R a pro-rata refund of premium in line with the terms of the contract. And I dont think 
there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could uphold this complaint. So Im not 
telling Astrenska to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman