DRN-4241110
The complaint
Miss L has complained about how Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) assisted 
her with a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
Hastings are a broker and administer policies on behalf of the insurer. So, when I refer to 
Hastings in this decision, it includes its actions as a broker and on behalf of the insurer.
What happened
On 31 January 2018, Mr D  a named driver on Miss Ls motor insurance policy - was 
involved in an accident in Miss Ls car so called Hastings to claim on the policy. 
As Mr D said he wasnt at fault for the accident, Hastings transferred him to another 
company (an accident management company who Ill refer to as the AMC) to provide them 
with a hire car and repair the damage to Miss Ls car under a credit agreement.
The AMC reviewed the claim and said Miss Ls car was what is known as a total loss and 
couldnt be repaired. In June 2020, Miss L received a bill from the AMC saying she needed 
to pay £15,702.53 for the hire car. This was because Hastings had accepted liability in April 
2018 and the third party paid the money for car hire to the AMC in error.
Miss L wasnt happy with how Hastings and the AMC were assisting her with the claim and 
complained. She said Hastings hadnt let Mr D know she was being referred to the AMC nor 
told him there was any possibility she could be liable for hire car costs. Miss L and Mr D 
thought the hire car was given to them under the courtesy car provision in their policy. 
Further, she was being pursued for hire car costs which she didnt agree with, especially as 
she didnt need the size and type of car she was given. 
Hastings reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the agreement for the hire car 
was between the AMC and Miss L so didnt think it was anything to do with them. It said if 
Miss L had reviewed the terms from the AMC and decided not to accept them, the claim 
would have been made under her motor insurance policy and she would have had a 
courtesy car up to the point the car was deemed a total loss.
Miss L didnt agree with Hastingss response to her complaint and referred it to this service. 
To put things right, she wants Hastings to settle the hire car charges. 
Our Investigator looked into Miss Ls complaint and recommended it be upheld. After 
communicating with Hastings, he explained it was Hastings responsibility to provide 
consumers with enough clear information to make an informed choice about whether to 
claim under their own policy or go through the AMC and into a credit arrangement for a hire 
car and the repairs needed to their car. So, not telling Mr D that Miss L might be liable for 
hire charges - when that was a possibility with claiming through the AMC - prevented him 
from making an informed choice. He felt, if Mr D had been given this information, he wouldnt 
have chosen to be referred to the AMC. To put things right, our investigator recommended 
Hastings cover the hire car costs with the AMC and pay £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss L by the poor referral.
Hastings didnt agree. It said the hire agreement was between the AMC and Miss L and an 
expectation for it to outline the contractual agreement of another companys service, the 
AMC, isnt legitimate business practise. It said the AMC outlined the contractual agreement 
prior to Miss L going ahead and so the charges incurred have nothing to do with it.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 June 2023 which said the following.
Im currently intending to uphold Miss Ls complaint and require Hastings to put things right 
as set out below. Ill explain why.
The responsibilities of Hastings
Before I address the merits of this complaint, its first important to set out the parties involved 
and Hastings responsibilities, to make clear what I can look at in this decision.
Hastings are responsible for when it discussed Miss Ls claim options and referred Mr D to 
the AMC for credit hire and repair. However, Hastings are not directly responsible for any 
actions or failures of the AMC. And I dont have the jurisdiction to consider the actions of the 
AMC in this complaint. 
So, in relation to Hastings and the AMC, Im only considering what happened during the call 
with Mr D when he was referred to the AMC for credit hire and repair and whether Hastings 
met the required standards for that referral. And - as I dont think it did - what the fair and 
reasonable outcome is to Miss Ls complaint. 
The relevant regulatory and other requirements
As the insurance broker, Hastings were obliged to give Miss L and Mr D information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading under Principle 7 of the FCA Handbook (PRIN 2.1R The 
Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2. 
In this case, it means when Mr D contacted Hastings to tell them about his claim, Hastings 
needed to give him clear information about his options so he could decide how best to 
proceed with his claim. Hastings were also required to do the following. 
-Pay due regard to the interests of Miss L as their customer and treat her fairly 
(Principle 6 of the FCA Handbook (PRIN 2.1R)).
-Act honestly, fairly, and professionally in accordance with the best interests of their 
customer (ICOBS 2.5.-1R).
-Take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of their advice if any recommendations 
were made (Principle 9 of the FCA Handbook (PRIN2.1R).
ICOBS 2.5.3 makes it clear a firm cannot delegate its responsibilities under the regulatory 
system.
As Mr D made the call to Hastings on behalf of Miss L, he was acting as her representative. 
And Im satisfied Hastings owed the same obligations to him on Miss Ls behalf.
The referral to the AMC
Ive listened to the referral call and considered whether Hastings met the relevant regulatory 
requirements. The key call is the seventh section of the call recording weve been sent by Hastings. Mr D 
and Hastings had already been discussing the accident but, due to technical problems with 
Hastings, the call had cut out various times. Ive extracted some of this conversation below.
At the beginning of this part of the call, the call handler at Hastings says shes going to 
instruct relevant services for you for repairs but needs to make notes on the system. Mr D 
explains hes running out of battery so the call will need to be quick as he may get cut off. 
Hastings: I can now instruct A who is our approved accident management company. 
They'll be able to discuss repairs and also, if you require one, a hire car for 
you. Your policy carries an excess of £395 however this would not be payable 
if credit repair is offered as the repair is not carried out under the terms of 
your policy. If they're not able to offer you the credit repair services they will 
discuss alternative repair options under your motor insurance policy and the 
excess will be payable.  I'll transfer you to them at the end of the call, this will 
take a few minutes. If you would like to contact them in the future, their 
number is  do you want to note it down?
Mr D: So, you know, if it's not my fault, will I still have to pay the excess?
Hastings: As I mentioned, I am instructing the services under the, un..erm, under the, 
um, through AMC, accident management company - which will mean if gets 
accepted for credit repair and credit hire you do not need to pay your excess. 
If it comes to a point where they say no we're not going to accept it for credit, 
they'll let you know and then the repairs will be carried out under the terms of 
the policy then the excess will become payable. At this stage, you do not 
need to pay your excess but we still need to make you aware of it. [As 
number offered and taken down] - that's for A, your approved repairers 
alrightI'll put you through to them.
Just to make you aware, there are other repair options available, would you 
like me to go through these with you or are you happy for me to proceed and 
instruct our approved repairers now.
Mr D: What's the other?
Hastings: The other option is you find your own garage, you take it to the garage that 
you would like to take it to, you would have to pay your excess directly to 
them. We don't provide you with a replacement car for the duration of repairs.
Mr D: No, thats absolutely fine, do I get a courtesy car as well?
Hastings: For the duration of repairs, for the duration of repairs.
Mr D: Yes, that's absolutely fine, brilliant.
[Discussion on address for collection of the car]
Hastings: [Discussion on legal cover and the contact details for Hastings in relation to 
contacting them again  phone number with the option to select for existing 
claims as well as the email address for sending in any pictures etc.]
If you hold on for me please, I will speak to our approved repairers, they will 
obviously help you with the next steps forward of, such as repairs and obviously providing you with a replacement car once it is accepted for repairs, 
ok.'
Although the call handler told Mr D there were other repair options available, Im not 
persuaded she presented the information about the full extent of the options available  
which dont just relate to repairs - and the benefits and drawbacks of them in a clear, fair and 
not misleading way. This is for the following reasons:
-Mr D referred repeatedly to a courtesy car in the conversation with Hastings. Miss L 
says this is because he knew they had this cover under her motor insurance policy. 
At no point did Hastings correct him or explain the difference between having a hire 
car with A and the courtesy car cover Miss L had under the motor insurance policy. 
-Hastings said if Miss L didnt use the AMC  referred to repeatedly as their approved 
repairer  Miss L wouldnt be given a replacement car for the duration of repairs. 
This isnt correct  Miss L had courtesy car cover for the time the car is being 
repaired with a nominated repairer.
-The call handler said the policy excess wouldnt be due if Miss L used the AMC, but it 
would if the AMC didnt accept it for credit. This isnt the full position as Miss L may 
have been able to claim her excess back from the third partys insurer as an 
uninsured loss, even if she claimed through her own insurance policy.
-The call handler didnt highlight any drawbacks to using an AMC. She should have 
made it clear that recovering the costs from the third-party insurer isnt guaranteed. 
And, if this was the position, Miss L could become liable for those credit hire costs 
which would likely be much higher than the policy excess.
-I dont think Hastings established Mr L needed to follow the credit hire and repair 
option or that it was suitable for them. Whilst I can accept Miss L had a need for a 
replacement car and credit hire was one way to get one, she had courtesy car cover 
with her motor insurance policy. The courtesy car is provided under the motor 
insurance policy and therefore not something Miss L would have been at risk of 
needing to pay for, if liability was disputed. There was a risk Miss L could be held 
liable for the hire car charges and Hastings should have let Mr D know this along with 
the fact Miss L was entitled to a courtesy car under her policy, so she could make an 
informed choice on whether to go for a hire car on credit. In fact, Mr D left the 
conversation with the  understandable - impression that Miss L would be using the 
courtesy car provided under her motor insurance policy. 
-Hastings didnt explain a key downside to not claiming on the motor insurance policy 
and dealing with the AMC as a separate company meant Miss L was stepping 
outside of her regulated contract and dealing with an unregulated company. 
Practically, this means she didnt have the same routes available if things go wrong 
with the AMC.
-I cant agree Hastings made it clear to Mr D about the two options available to Miss L 
and what each one meant. The references to the AMC were as Hastings approved 
repairer, the call handler confirmed there was a courtesy car if using the AMC and 
Hastings transferred Mr D to them. Taking this into account, and in the absence of a 
clear explanation about the options, I can understand why Mr D didnt realise he  on 
behalf of Miss L - had been referred to the AMC and Miss L had stepped outside the 
regulated motor insurance policy because of this. The only other option available was 
described as one which meant no replacement car and this didnt reflect what Mr D 
knew about Miss Ls motor insurance policy having courtesy car cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded Hastings presented information about the 
options Miss L had in a clear, fair and not misleading way to Mr D. The call handler 
highlighted a couple of the main benefits of credit hire, but didnt make it clear it was a 
proactive choice to step outside the motor insurance policy. Given Mr Ds questions, I think it 
was clear he and Miss L didnt release this was a separate route to the motor insurance policy. The call handler ought to have made it clear the two routes which were available and 
the differences between them as well as the key risks, to present Mr D with a balanced view 
of Miss Ls options and allow him on her behalf, or her after discussing it with him, to make 
an informed choice about how to proceed. Miss L says if shed been made aware of the risk 
of having to pay hire car costs, she would have gone through the motor insurance policy  
which is what she thought she was doing in any event  as she had courtesy car cover with 
no risk of having to pay for it. And therefore, wouldnt be held liable for the hire car costs.
For the above reasons, Ive provisionally decided to uphold Miss Ls complaint. I dont think 
she would have agreed to the referral to the AMC if Mr D had been given the clear, fair and 
not misleading information he should have about her options by Hastings.
Ive therefore looked at the impact of the poor referral on Miss L and how Hastings should 
put things right to get to what I consider to be the fair and reasonable outcome to Miss Ls 
complaint.  Because of Hastings referring Miss L to the AMC, she is now being chased for 
£15,702.53 for credit hire costs. These are costs Miss L would never have incurred, but for 
Hastings poor referral. Therefore, I consider the fair and reasonable outcome is for 
Hastings to pay the credit hire costs, plus any late fees and interest add to these.
Miss L has been chased for the outstanding hire car costs since 2020 and been threatened 
with debt collectors and further action. Miss L has also explained how this has impacted her, 
including her ability to sleep, as the demand of such a large debt has weighed heavily on her 
for such a long time. I can see from the communication with our service its been an 
extremely stressful and worrying time for Miss L. As Im persuaded, shes only become liable 
for the hire costs due to Hastings failings, its my view Hastings should pay Miss L £450 to 
compensate her for this unnecessary additional distress and inconvenience caused.
Hastings responded to accept the decision. Miss L responded to explain she felt heard and 
relieved. She later responded to say shed reflected on the matter and wanted the 
compensatory element to be reassessed to recognise the impact on their lives. Miss L 
explained the charges had hung over them and caused additional stress and anxiety for 
three years having a significant impact on her mental health and wellbeing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything and with no new information from either party in response to 
my provisional findings on the merits of this complaint, I see no reason to depart from them. 
Given all the factors set out in the provisional decision and above, I dont think Miss L would 
have agreed to the referral to the AMC if Mr D had been given the clear, fair and not 
misleading information he should have about Miss Ds options by Hastings.
Miss L has asked me to reassess the compensatory amount considering her further 
comments. I can see from what has been said by her that shes found this stressful and it 
has impacted her wellbeing. I think thats understandable, and I want reassure Miss L that Id 
taken this into account when reaching my provisional decision. I think its important to 
explain its my role to seek to distinguish between the distress and inconvenience Miss L 
suffered because of the car accident and its consequences (as well as any other matters 
going on in the same time frame), which Hastings isnt responsible for, with what Hastings 
did or failed to do that mightve added to that distress. Having taken everything into account, 
I consider the award of £450 is a fair and reasonable way to recognise this impact so, although Ive considered what shes said in response to the provisional decision, I havent 
decided to change the award.
Putting things right
To put things right, l require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to:
1.Pay the hire car costs plus any late fees and interest Miss L is liable for. It can pay 
these directly to the AMC or it can pay the amount due to Miss L, so she can pay the 
AMC. 
2.Pay Miss L £450 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Hastings 
Insurance Services Limited needs to take the steps outlined above under the heading 
Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman