DRN-3942389
The complaint
Mr R1 and Mr R2 complain that the telematics box provided by Tradex Insurance Company 
Limited for their commercial motor insurance policy caused damage to their car, a taxi. They 
want compensation for the damage this caused and their consequent loss of earnings.       
Mr R2 is a named driver on his sons policy and represents them in this matter. 
What happened
Mr R1 and Mr R2 took out a policy with Tradex that required them to install a telematics box 
in their taxi. Immediately afterwards, they noticed problems with the power steering that 
resolved when Mr R2 removed the box. A garage tightened a fuse and said the box had 
been installed too close to the power steering ECU. Mr R2 thought the box had caused the 
issues and lost them work. So they complained to Tradex. Tradexs technician reviewed the 
garages reports, but it didnt find any relationship between the box and the problem with the 
power steering. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr R1 and 
Mr R2 were required to self-install the box. But she thought the instructions provided gave 
the impression that the box should be installed professionally. And she thought the problems 
with the power steering had occurred during or because of the installation. 
So she thought that but for the installation of the box, Mr R1 and Mr R2 wouldnt have 
suffered any of the problems they experienced. She thought Tradex should reimburse the 
costs of the diagnostics, with interest, compensate them for their loss of income, with 
interest, and pay them £100 compensation for their trouble and upset. 
Tradex didnt respond to the Investigators view, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R1 and Mr R2 have also complained that they werent given information about other 
policies that didnt require a telematics box. But, as our Investigator has explained, this was 
the responsibility of their broker, not Tradex. And as thats a separate business, I cant 
consider that here. 
So Ive looked at whether the installation of the telematics box damaged Mr R1 and Mr R2s 
taxi and caused them a loss of earnings. As our Investigator has already explained, were 
not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as 
this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. 
Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered 
all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs. And I dont 
think Tradex has done this on this occasion. Ill now explain why I think this. 
Tradex sent Mr R1 an installation kit and instructions for him to install the telematics box on 
the cars battery himself within 14 days. There wasnt an option for a professional 
installation. 
Ive looked at the instructions and note that they refer to installation staff and that the box 
needs to be installed in a workmanlike manner. The instructions are generic and dont take 
into account different makes and models of cars. They also warn that the box must be 
installed more than half a metre from the cars ECU. 
But, unbeknown to Mr R1, his car had three ECUs, including one for the power steering. 
Tradex itself told us that some customers have the boxes installed with mechanical advice. 
So Im not satisfied that it was reasonable for Tradex to expect the box could be successfully 
installed by an ordinary consumer.
Mr R2 said the power steering was fine prior to the installation of the telematics box, and I 
have no reason to doubt him. He said immediately afterwards there was an issue. A very 
short time later, the car was rendered undriveable. Once the box was removed, the steering 
was fine again, but the engine management light remained on.
Mr R2 then took his car to his garage where the manufacturer advised on how to reset the 
warning light. Mr R2 showed the engineer where the box had been placed. He was told it 
was too close to the power steering ECU. Mr R2 had located the main electrical ECU and 
ensured the box was placed more than half a metre away. But Im not satisfied that the 
instructions made clear that cars could have more than one ECU.
The engineer said there was a loose fuse, which he tightened. But I cant see that this was 
associated with the power steering. And he didnt reinstall the box, at Mr R2s request. His 
report doesnt state that the box caused the problem with the power steering. This was also 
noted by Tradexs technician. But the technician also said:
the telematics boxes, do not cause any problem to the vehicles, as long as they are 
installed to perfection in the vehicles, complying with the installation directions.
I think the instructions imply that professional installation is required. And from the 
technicians comment, Im not satisfied that they were clear enough to enable an ordinary 
consumer to follow them with the accuracy required. And so Im not satisfied they enable a 
proper self-installation without the risk of damaging the car. 
The power steering issue followed the installation and was corrected when the box was 
removed. So I think its reasonable to conclude that the power steering issues were caused 
by or during the installation of the box.
But for the self-installation, Im satisfied Mr R1 and Mr R2 wouldnt have had to pay for the 
cars health check at the garage, they wouldnt have lost work opportunities, and they 
wouldnt have been caused trouble and upset. So I think Tradex should reasonably 
reimburse their costs, recompense them for lost earnings (with interest as they have been 
without their money for some time) and pay them compensation.
Our Investigator recommended that Tradex should pay Mr R1 £100 compensation. I think 
thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for the level of 
impact the error caused. 
Putting things right
I require Tradex Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Reimburse Mr R1 and Mr R2 the cost of the diagnostics check, adding interest at the 
rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
2. Compensate Mr R1 and Mr R2 for any loss of income they can evidence they would 
otherwise have received on the days the vehicle was faulty, adding interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
3. Pay Mr R1 £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by not 
providing professional installation of the box at the policys inception
If Tradex considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr R1 and Mr R2 how much its taken off. It should also give them 
a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Tradex Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R1 and Mr R2 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman