DRN-4389616
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC conducted a credit check on him.
What happened
Mr R contacted Barclays to upgrade his current account to a Premier Account because he 
met the eligibility criteria. But Barclays initially upgrade the wrong account, and when they 
upgraded the correct account, they conducted a hard credit check on Mr R which was then 
reported to his credit file. Mr R wasnt happy about this because hed been told that such a 
credit check wasnt necessary. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mr R and confirmed that a hard credit check was required as part of 
the account upgrade process. Barclays apologised to Mr R for the incorrect information that 
hed received and made a payment of £200 to him as compensation for the trouble and 
upset hed incurred as a result. Mr R wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred 
his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the £200 compensation and 
apology that Barclays had issued to Mr R already was a fair outcome to the complaint. Mr R 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr R feels that a credit check wasnt required when upgrading an account 
with Barclays. However, Barclays have provided their account upgrade process flow to this 
service which confirms that a hard credit check is a required part of that process, and that Mr 
R should have been informed that this was the case before his accounts were upgraded.
So, whats happened here isnt that Barclays have conducted a credit check on Mr R that 
they reasonably shouldnt have conducted, but rather that Barclays didnt inform Mr R, as 
they should have done, of their requirement that a credit check would be conducted if he 
chose to upgrade his account. 
Mr R has explained to this service that he wants the credit check to be removed but for the 
account upgrades to remain in place. But this doesnt seem fair to me  given that its been 
confirmed that Barclays require a credit check to be conducted as part of the account 
upgrade process. 
Additionally, I note that on one of the accounts Mr R has already utilised some of the 
Premier Account features, such that it isnt now reasonable to expect Barclays to 
retrospectively cancel the upgrade. And given that Mr R only received one credit check in 
regard to both of his upgraded accounts, even if Mr R was to request the retrospective 
cancelation of the second account, the credit check would fairly remain in place because of 
the upgrading of the first account which now must remain in place. Furthermore, Mr R has 
confirmed to this service that he wants his accounts to remain upgraded. 
It also must be noted that the Premier Account allows account holders to transfer and 
withdraw higher daily amounts than standard account customers. And so, it makes sense to 
me that a credit check would be required by Barclays before upgrading an account to a 
Premier Account, given the increased risk the Premier Account facilities entail.
All of which means I wont be instructing Barclays to remove the credit check from Mr Rs 
credit file as he would like. However, it remains the case that Barclays didnt inform Mr R 
about their requirement for a credit check before upgrading his accounts as they should 
have done. 
Barclays have apologised to Mr R for this and paid £200 to him as compensation for any 
trouble or upset he may have incurred as a result. And, upon consideration, I feel the £200 
that Barclays have already paid Mr R is a fair compensation amount for what took place. 
In arriving at this position, Ive considered the frustration and inconvenience that not being 
told that a credit check would take place has caused Mr R. But also taken into account that a 
credit check has very little effect on a persons credit file such that the actual impact to Mr R 
has been relatively minor. And Ive also considered the general framework which this service 
uses when considering compensation awards, details of which are on this services website. 
It therefore follows that I feel that the response that Barclays have already issued to Mr Rs 
complaint  including the apology and the payment of £200 compensation  does represent 
a fair resolution to this complaint such that no further action from Barclays is reasonably 
required here. And accordingly, I will not be upholding this complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr R was wanting. But I hope that hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman