DRN-3324005
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the decision by Accelerant Insurance Limited (Accelerant) to 
repudiate a claim he made on his home buildings insurance policy. Mr S is also unhappy 
with the service received whilst the claim was ongoing.
For the purposes of this complaint any reference to Accelerant also includes the actions of 
its appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr S and Accelerant. I wont repeat 
in detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mr Ss property had a leak through the roof. He contacted Accelerant to make a claim 
against his buildings insurance policy. Initially Accelerant felt that the cause of the leak may 
not be something covered under this policy. Both parties agreed that scaffolding would be 
set up to allow an inspection of the roof and help establish the cause of damage. Ultimately it 
was decided by Accelerant that the claim would be repudiated as the likely cause was poor 
workmanship or a problem dating back to the initial works. 
Unhappy with Accelerants decision, Mr S complained about the claim repudiation and the 
service provided by Accelerant when reaching their decision. In particular, the 
communication from Accelerant, the time taken and damage caused by the scaffolding.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service for an independent review. Our investigator 
considered this complaint and she recommended that it not be upheld. Mr S didnt accept 
our investigators findings so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
Mr S  it simply reflects the informal nature of our service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. 
My decision only concerns the actions of Accelerant and their appointed agents  not any 
other third party which Mr S may have had dealings with regarding the issue of the cause of 
the roof leak.
The repudiation of this claim
Im satisfied that Accelerant fairly considered and investigated Mr Ss claim before reaching 
their decision to repudiate it. I note that initially it was suspected by Accelerant that wear and 
tear may have been the cause of the water damage to Mr Ss property. 
After the initial claim by Mr S, it was agreed that scaffolding would be set up to allow an 
inspection of the roof and a specialist report established that the likely cause was poor 
workmanship. Under the policy terms, poor workmanship isnt an insured risk.
Im satisfied that Accelerant fully and fairly considered the claim and properly investigated 
the cause of the damage being claimed for before reaching their decision to repudiate it  
inline with the policy terms.
The service provided by Accelerant
Although Ive found that Accelerant fairly repudiated this claim, Ive then considered if they 
treated Mr S fairly and reasonably when reaching this decision.
Im very sorry to hear of the issues Mr S has told us about and the impact hes said the claim 
experience has had on him. Its clear from his submissions to our service and from listening 
to the extensive phone calls between him and Accelerant that hes spent a considerable 
amount of time trying to resolve issues related to this claim. I know Mr S feels very strongly 
about how hes been treated. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Accelerant treated Mr S fairly and reasonably in agreeing to and 
arranging for scaffolding being set up to fully investigate the cause of the leak. Often in this 
type of claim, insurers may try to repudiate a claim without fully considering all the 
circumstances. Its positive to see that Accelerant havent done so here. Im also satisfied 
that Accelerant didnt mislead or mis-manage Mr S expectations from the outset about what 
the outcome of the claim may be. 
As mentioned, there were extensive phone calls made and emails sent by Mr S chasing 
updates on his claim. As with any insurance claim, there is always the possibility that the 
investigation and handling of a claim may take longer than either party would like. In this 
complaint I accept that the length of time taken by Accelerant will have caused Mr S 
annoyance, stress and frustration. But Ive had to weigh this up against a number of factors 
including, but not limited to:
the involvement of third-party contractors; 
the delay in waiting for wet conditions to help establish what was causing the leak; 
other third parties not linked to Accelerant; and
the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. 
Im satisfied that in the background Accelerant were proactive in chasing third parties and 
kept Mr S reasonably updated. 
Its important to say that Accelerant havent handled everything perfectly - and I understand 
Mr Ss frustration. For example, in at least one phone call its clear that there is a strong 
difference of opinion between Mr S and the Accelerant adviser. But as is often the case 
during telephone communication when an issue such as a claim has been ongoing for some 
time - conversations dont always go smoothly. 
Ive weighed this up against the positive, proactive actions taken by Accelerant. For 
example, (in my opinion) they didnt necessarily have to agree to the setup of scaffolding - 
which they did anyway. Additionally, in various phone calls their advisers tried their best to point Mr S towards relevant third-party avenues that may be able to help him. For example; 
during one call the adviser researched online the help available to new homeowners as a 
potential avenue for Mr S to pursue. This was going above and beyond in my opinion. As 
another example, I find the proposal by Accelerant to allow the scaffolding to stay up and 
provide an option for the repair at a cost to Mr S very positive, supportive and potentially 
financially attractive. 
Im satisfied that other issues raised by Mr S have been addressed by Accelerant or a fair 
remedy offered so I wont comment in great detail on them. In particular, the damage caused 
by the scaffolding and the delay in refunding the policy excess. 
Overall - although not always perfect, having fully reviewed in detail the contact notes, call 
recordings and internal system notes, I find that Accelerant havent wilfully caused avoidable 
delays in their handling of this claim or provided poor service to the extent that compensation 
is warranted. 
To be clear, I understand why Mr S feels the service delivered may not have met his 
expectations, but when Ive considered Accelerants actions overall, I dont require them to 
do anything more to put things right for Mr S.
I know my decision will likely disappoint Mr S, but it brings to an end what our Service - in 
trying to informally resolve this dispute between Mr S and Accelerant can do for him. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman