DRN-3415004
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with how Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) dealt with the termination of his 
hire purchase agreement with them. 
What happened
On 6 March 2018 Mr F was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with BMF. The agreement was for £14,890 over 60 months, with monthly payments of 
£403.27.
Mr F missed the payment for May 2021, and, on 1 June 2021, he contacted BMF to discuss 
his financial situation. He said hed been made redundant and asked if he could defer his 
payments to get back on track. BMF explained they couldnt offer him a payment deferral, 
and they also explained that a default notice may be issued if he went two months into 
arrears. BMF asked Mr F to pay a token payment, to keep the arrears below two months, 
and they said they could look at agreeing a payment arrangement to clear the arrears.
Mr F paid the token payment. But, on 1 July 2021, he called BMF again and explained that 
he wouldnt be able to make the next payment. BMF advised him that hed need to pay £355 
to keep the arrears below two months.
Following this, Mr F asked to voluntarily terminate (VT) the agreement. BMF placed his 
account on hold while the VT process went through, and they collected the car in September 
2021. BMF then charged Mr F for the outstanding arrears. Mr F wasnt happy with how he'd 
been treated by BMF and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the agreement Mr F signed required him to pay any arrears when he 
terminated the agreement. So, he thought BMF had acted reasonably by asking Mr F for 
this. And he didnt think the outstanding arrears should be waived.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator. He said he was only one of many people that have 
been mistreated by [BMF] and he thought hed payed [sic] well over more that what the car 
is worth. He said that the worry of the situation had affected his mental health and Im not 
the first and probably not the last person to go through this with them.
Because Mr F didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr F was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Before I address the issues themselves, Mr F has referred to how BMF have treated other 
customers in similar situations. The Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative to the 
courts, and we consider specific complaints raised by customers about financial businesses. 
Because of this, my decision is concerned with how BMF dealt with Mr Fs situation. While I 
appreciate that other customers may have been unhappy with the service they received from 
BMF, this has no bearing on the service BMF provided to Mr F. Given this, I will only address 
what happened to Mr F, and not what may or may not have happened to other customers.
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mr F electronically signed on 5 March 2018. Under the 
heading Missing Payments this says missing payments could have serious consequences. 
We will report missed payments to credit reference agencies, which may make obtaining 
credit from us or other lenders more difficult and expensive. Missing payments may also 
increase the amount you have to pay us, and we may become entitled to terminate the 
Agreement and recover possession of the vehicle.
Under the heading Termination: Your Rights, the agreement also says you have a right to 
end this Agreement. To do so, you should write to the person you make payments to. They 
will then be entitled to the return of the goods and to half the total amount payable under this 
Agreement, that is £12,098.10. If you have already paid at least this amount plus any 
overdue instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to pay 
any more. And, under the heading Your Right to end the Agreement, the agreement says, 
you must also pay us any amount which is already overdue under this Agreement.
Ive listened to call that took place on 1 June 2021. In this call Mr F explained hed been 
made redundant, but he started a new job next Monday and he wouldnt be paid until the 
end of June 2021. So, hed miss the June 2021 payment, in addition to the May 2021 
payment that had already been missed.
BMF explained the Covid-19 payment deferral scheme had now ended, so the missed 
payments couldnt be added to the end of the agreement. And a payment arrangement 
would need to be set up. They also said that if the account goes into two months of arrears, 
you are potentially at risk of receiving a notice of default, which then gives you 18 days to 
clear the arrears or the account becomes terminated. 
BMF went on to explain that the agreement being terminated would mean that Mr F would 
lose the right to VT, and he would need to come to an arrangement to clear the arrears. And 
failure to clear the arrears could lead to the car being repossessed.
BMF also told Mr F that making a token payment of £10 would keep the arrears below two 
months, and this would mean any default notice wouldnt be sent. Mr F asked about VT and 
BMF told him hed be liable for the payments hed already deferred under the Covid-19 
deferral scheme (as these were payments that otherwise wouldve fallen due, and Mr F had 
full use of the car during the payment deferral period), as well as any payments that fall due 
until VT.While I appreciate that Mr F thought BMF were treating him unfairly, and not taking into 
consideration his previous payment history, I dont agree that was the case. When Mr F 
called them to discuss his financial situation, they explained their process, which was in line 
with the agreement hed signed. And, while Mr F didnt agree with what BMF told him would 
happen, this doesnt mean what they told him was factually incorrect. Whats more, BMF 
also explained what Mr F would need to do to avoid any default notice being triggered. So, 
Im satisfied that Mr F was treated fairly, and in line with how BMF would treat any customer 
in the same situation.
In this call, BMF also explained what Mr F would need to pay upon VT. And this included an 
explanation as to how the payment deferral he had between July and September 2020 
would be treated. Again, this information is in line with the agreement Mr F signed.
It's not disputed that Mr F had paid more that the £12,098.10 he needed to, to be able to VT. 
But the agreement is clear in that this is the minimum that would need to be paid, not the 
maximum. And that any outstanding payments would still need to be paid. So, I dont think 
its unreasonable for BMF to ask Mr F to make the payments hed missed (including the 
deferred payments) and I wont be asking them to reduce or waive this amount.
Mr F has explained how the stress and worry of having to repay the arrears has affected 
him, especially given his personal situation. But, as I dont think BMF did anything wrong by 
asking Mr F to make these payments, I wont be asking them to compensate him for this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Blue Motor Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman