DRN-3457827
The complaint
Ms T, who is represented by a third party, complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited 
(MotoNovo) irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
In March 2016, Ms T acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
MotoNovo. Ms T was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £116.25, to start two 
months after the contract began, with a final payment due of £315.25. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £7,174. The agreement ended in November 2017.
Ms T says that MotoNovo didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable and that she was struggling to pay debts 
at the time. MotoNovo didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which 
included relying on information Ms T had provided to the car dealership as well as reviewing 
her credit file.  
At first our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. But after Ms T sent her 
some more information about her income and committed expenditure, she thought 
MotoNovo ought to have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Ms T.
As MotoNovo didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
The credit check MotoNovo completed showed some details about Ms Ts employment, 
bank account information and the existence of other credit commitments at the time. It also 
included information about missed payments and going above her limit on a credit card. I 
think all this ought to have indicated that Ms T was likely to have been experiencing some 
uncertainty in her work situation as well as potential financial difficulty. It therefore would 
have been proportionate for MotoNovo to have got a more thorough understanding of Ms Ts 
financial circumstances before lending, so as to be sure shed be able to meet the 
repayments for the agreement, particularly given that these would be made over a period of 
five years. 
I also think it would have been proportionate for MotoNovo to have asked for details of 
Ms Ts income in some way. Ms T had said at the time that she was doing occasional shift 
work rather than a full-time job. Ive seen that the computerised notes relied upon by 
MotoNovo are unclear about her length of employment and the hours she worked. Ive also 
noted that she was receiving regular employment and support allowance payments as part 
of her income, amounting to around £230 every two weeks. This suggests she needed help 
with her living costs and/or support with getting back to work. Ive also seen that her income 
from earnings was around £150-210 per month but not necessarily as a regular monthly 
income. This suggests that at best her income was no more than around £450 each month 
I think this shows its unlikely that Ms T would be able to afford to sustainably repay the new 
agreement as well as her existing commitments. I think MotoNovo would likely have found 
this out too if it had completed proportionate checks. Instead, Ive seen that it assumed that 
she was working a 35-hour week and receiving the minimum wage, producing an estimated 
monthly income of £1,016.16. Given that this was likely to have been far in excess of the 
income Ms T was actually receiving, which proportionate checks would likely have shown, 
MotoNovo therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance. 
I also think it would have been proportionate for MotoNovo to have found out more about 
Ms Ts committed expenditure. Ms T told MotoNovo at the time that she lived at home with 
her parents. Whilst typically this would mean that her overall living costs were lower, I cant 
be sure exactly what MotoNovo would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of 
anything else, however, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the 
information contained in Ms Ts bank statements as to what would most likely have been 
disclosed. 
Ive reviewed four months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision, as well for 
four months following the decision. These show that, although Ms Ts regular outgoings were 
lower given that she was living at home at the time, she was still having to find money to 
meet credit card bills, mobile phone contracts and car expenses, in addition to making 
occasional cash withdrawals. That means she had regular committed outgoings which, 
although they may have been under £100, when added to her one-off expenses and daily 
living costs, would leave her with very little if any disposable income. It follows that I dont 
consider Ms T would have had enough available disposable income to sustainably be able to 
afford the addition monthly cost of £116.25 under the agreement. MotoNovo therefore didnt 
act fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right  what MotoNovo needs to do
As I dont think MotoNovo ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all 
the payments Ms T has made, including any deposit. However, Ms T did have use of the car  
for around 20 months, so I think its fair she pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that 
monthly repayments of over £116 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. 
This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Ms Ts likely overall usage of the car and what her costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if she didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Ms T should pay is £90 for 
each month she had use of the car. This means MotoNovo can only ask her to repay a total 
of £1800. Anything Ms T has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment. 
To settle Ms Ts complaint MotoNovo should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Refund all the payments Ms T has made, less £1800 for fair usage. oIf Ms T has paid more than the fair usage figure, MotoNovo should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Ms T has paid less than the fair usage figure, MotoNovo should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once MotoNovo has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Ms Ts credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest. MotoNovo 
must give Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Ms T asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to put things right in the 
manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman