DRN-2665977
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly turned down 
his business interruption insurance claim after his business was forced to close due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr B holds a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. Mr B claimed on his policy 
after his business was required to close due to the Governments actions in response to 
Covid-19.  
  
RSA said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable  
disease at the premises, Mr Bs business had closed as a result of the Government Act in 
response to the national pandemic. As Mr B hadnt indicated that there had been a case of 
Covid-19 at his business premises, RSA turned down his claim. 
  
Mr B was unhappy with RSAs response and brought the complaint to our service. 
  
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He 
thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at  
the premises. And as there hadnt been a case of Covid-19 at the premises, the claim wasnt 
covered.   
  
Mr B didnt think this was fair and referred to the Supreme Court judgment on the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mr Bs business. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain why.   
  
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining Mr Bs claim.   
  
The most relevant part of Mr Bs policy covers loss as a result of:  
 
 A)  closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the      
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the Premises  
  
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease but I dont think this term covers Mr Bs claim. I say that 
because the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on the business premises to 
have been the result of a case of the notifiable human disease occurring at the 
premises. However, Mr B confirmed that his business closed as a result of the Governments 
response to the pandemic, and he hadnt identified a case of Covid-19 at the premises.   
  
Mr B has referred to the Supreme Court judgment. However, the terms considered in the test 
case were different to the those in Mr Bs policy and, as Mr B hasnt indicated that there was 
a case of Covid-19 at his businesss premises, the judgment doesnt affect the outcome of 
his claim.   
  
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for but, having considered this matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask RSA to pay his claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman