DRN-3107625
The complaint
Mr W complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) settlement of his travel insurance 
claim. My references to UKI include its agents.
What happened
Mr W has travel insurance, insured by UKI, through his bank account. He travelled abroad to 
visit family on 9 March 2020 and was due to return on 3 April 2020.
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel abroad 
due to Covid-19. On 23 March 2020 the FCDO advised British travellers usually based in the 
UK to return home immediately. The airline cancelled Mr Ws scheduled return flights and 
later rebooked him onto a return flight to the UK on 5 July 2020.
On Mr Ws return he claimed for his additional accommodation costs and costs for 
medication he needed for his medical conditions due to his extended stay.
UKI said:
as Mr W hadnt declared his pre-existing medical conditions to UKI through yearly 
medical screening the policy didnt cover the conditions or the cost of medication for 
the conditions 
the policy terms didnt cover Mr Ws additional accommodation costs and it had no 
evidence that he attempted to cut short his trip following the FCDO advice  
it covered the claim under the delay section in the policy and paid Mr W delay benefit 
of £250.
Mr W complained to us, through a representative. He says:
apart from what he could tell us he wasnt able to provide any further evidence that 
hed tried to return to the UK earlier as he was in a developing country which was in 
lockdown for over two months due to Covid-19. He was staying in a rural area, there 
was no wi-fi at his hotel or nearby. International calls were very expensive and with 
poor connection so he used a payphone to call the local airline offices which didnt 
offer him any help
when the lockdown in the country was lifted he travelled to a city to contact the airline 
and the flight of 5 July to the UK was the first available flight
Mr W wants UKI to pay his claim and his expenses due to him making a claim in 
particular the £30 doctors fee for the medical certificate.
Our investigator said UKI fairly settled the claim under the delay section of the policy and it 
didnt need to pay Mr Ws accommodation or medication costs or the doctors fee.
Mr W said he accepted UKI didnt need to pay the medication costs. But he wants an 
ombudsmans decision as he feels very strongly UKI should accept he cant provide 
supporting evidence that he tried to return to the UK earlier due to the communication 
problems in the country he was in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly, 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. I dont think UKIs settlement was unreasonable.
Medication
I understand Mr W accepts that UKI didnt need to pay his claim for medication. For the 
avoidance of doubt I think UKI fairly declined Mr Ws claim for medication for the reasons 
given by our investigator.
Cost of medical certificate and other claim expenses
The policy excludes Any costs necessary to provide certificates, information or evidence 
which we need to process your claim. So the £30 doctors fee for Mr W to provide the 
medical certificate isnt covered by the policy terms.
UKI reasonably asked Mr W to provide a medical certificate to evidence the medical 
conditions for which he was claiming medication expenses. Its for Mr W to provide the 
evidence to support his claim. So I think UKI was reasonable to not pay Mr Ws doctors fee 
for his medical certificate.
Mr W hasnt detailed any other expenses he incurred in making this claim but generally 
I wouldnt say an insurer needed to pay those costs. Ive no reason to say UKI should in this 
case.
Additional accommodation costs
The policy does cover additional accommodation costs but only in specified listed 
circumstances. Additional accommodation costs for the circumstances Mr W found himself in 
arent covered by the policy terms.
Ive also considered whether UKI should pay Mr Ws claim for additional accommodation 
costs on a fair and reasonable basis.
The Cutting Short Your Trip (after your trip has started) section of the policy covers 
additional accommodation costs if Mr W had to return home early from his trip due to FCDO 
advice and couldnt use his return ticket. But that wasnt what happened to Mr W, he had to 
extend his trip.
UKI told Mr W that if he could provide evidence to support he was trying to return to the UK 
from 23 March 2020 when the FCDO advised British travellers to return, and before he was 
due to return in April, it would consider his claim. Thats over and above what UKI is required 
to do under the policy terms and reasonable. 
Mr W has given details about why he doesnt have any supporting evidence to support what 
he says about trying to return to the UK from 23 March 2020. Im sympathetic to the situation Mr W found himself in. But I think it would have been reasonable for him to contact UKIs 
emergency assistance service to discuss his situation and what costs it could cover, as the 
policy says he should do. Even if Mr W couldnt contact UKI initially, when he moved from 
the rural area to an area with better communication systems I think it more likely than not 
that there would have been a way to contact UKI. Mr W says he didnt realise the policy was 
with UKI and thought it was with the bank. But Ive seen no evidence that when he got to an 
area with better communication that he contacted the bank to discuss what the policy would 
cover in his situation.
As Mr W can provide no evidence to support that he was trying to return early once the 
FCDO gave its advice on 23 March I think UKI acted reasonably in saying it wouldnt pay 
Mr Ws additional accommodation costs.
Settlement payment
UKI paid Mr W £250 under the Missed, Delayed or Abandoned Departure section which 
says if Mr W is unable to return to the UK on his planned return UKI will pay delay benefit of:
£10 per insured person after the first two hours and an additional £10 every following 
four hours up to a limit of £250 if you have arrived at your point of departure or 
connection and your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is delayed. You must have 
already checked in.
Mr W didnt arrive at the airport on 3 April 2020, as a strict reading of the policy terms 
require. There wouldnt have been any reason for him to do so as he knew his flight wasnt 
going that date. UKI has been reasonable in paying Mr W under this policy section and £250 
is the maximum benefit and the correct amount for Mr Ws circumstances under the delay 
section.
I know Mr W will be disappointed by my decision. But for the reasons above I think UKIs 
settlement of his claim was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman