DRN-3772172
The complaint
Mr R (on behalf of the estate of Mr C) complains that Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) wont refund transactions which took place on Mr Cs account which he says 
Mr C did not make or otherwise authorise. Mr R is unhappy that Nationwide allowed a third 
party to make these transactions. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I will not go into every 
detail of what we know about what happened here. But, in summary, Mr R, on behalf of the 
estate of the late Mr C, complains that Nationwide declined to refund approximately £25,000 
of payments from Mr Cs account which Mr R says he could not have made or otherwise 
authorised. Mr R explained that in February 2020, Mr C moved into a hospice due to his 
declining health. So, Mr R says that Mr C could not have completed any transactions from 
this point until his death approximately fifteen months later. He is concerned that the 
payments were not flagged as suspicious, particularly given that some went over the daily 
withdrawal limit. 
Nationwide looked into what had happened. They declined to refund the disputed 
transactions. In summary, they said that: 
Mr R had initially disputed all transactions from February 2020, but had later said that 
he no longer disputed a number of transactions due to the value of them leading him 
to conclude they may have been Mr C; 
The cash withdrawals and purchases took place using Mr Cs genuine card and PIN 
code;
So, it was unclear if the transactions were carried out by Mr C or were at least 
authorized by him at the time;
They recommended that Mr R contact the police so that they could carry out a 
thorough investigation in order to establish what most likely happened at the time of 
the transactions. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr R came to our service. One of our investigators looked into 
what had happened and didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. They felt that there 
was not enough evidence to fairly ask Nationwide to refund the transactions, as there was 
not enough evidence to say that he did not authorise them in some way. Mr R remained 
dissatisfied. In summary, he said: 
The activity on Mr Cs account changed drastically when he went into the hospice. 
They should have flagged the payments as unusual and out of character for Mr Cs 
account and contacted Mr C or blocked the card, but they failed to do so; 
His partner had taken the card and used it. When asked whether there was any 
written or verbal agreement about finances, she said no, and that she had been 
financially independent of him. Mr R said she could not have got his consent because 
he was in the hospice dying. This is why he initially thought it could have been 
someone in the home. They had been partners, they lived together, but they had 
their own accounts and own finances. He has no proof, but he thinks it was her son. 
Mr R said he had spoken to Mr Cs partner and her son, who had confirmed there 
was no spoken or written agreement between Mr C and his partner about financial 
matters. He said that they had confirmed Mr C and his partner had separate finances 
and provided an audio recording of the phone call. He said he thought the partners 
son may have taken the money out, but the police declined to interview Mr Cs 
partner due to the fact she was in her nineties. 
Our investigator reviewed the new evidence, and explained it did not change their opinion on 
this complaint. As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not able to ask Nationwide to refund any of the transactions  Ill 
explain why. 
Generally, Nationwide can hold Mr Cs estate liable for any disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests that it is more likely than not that he made or otherwise authorised the 
transactions. I first need to look at whether the payments were authenticated. Authentication 
is the procedure which allows a bank to validate the use of a specific payment instrument 
and its security features. In this case, I am satisfied that the genuine chip and PIN were used 
to complete the withdrawals, and other transactions. But authentication alone is not enough 
to say that Mr Cs estate is liable for these transactions. So, I need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that it is more likely than not that Mr C consented to these payments. 
And therein lies the difficulty. 
Ive carefully considered all of the available evidence to try and understand what, if any, 
consent Mr C had given his partner or anyone else to use his card. Due to the unfortunate 
passing of Mr C, there has been no testimony from Mr C himself  so we can never know 
exactly what happened with certainty. So, to do this I have looked at the evidence and 
testimony of Mr R, and the evidence in the recording of the phone call he provided as well as 
the evidence of the transactions themselves. I have done this in order to try to understand 
Mr Cs personal and financial situation as well as possible in order to ascertain whether there 
is evidence that the payments were unauthorised or whether they should have been 
prevented.
I think that it is most likely that Mr C did not complete the transactions himself. I say this 
because the telephone call evidence suggests that Mr Cs partner was in possession of his 
cards. Further to this, I understand Mr C was suffering from extreme ill health, and the 
disputed transactions largely took place after the implementation of the first national 
lockdown so it would be highly unlikely that he would have left the hospice even if there was 
any time where he would have been physically able to do so. 
Having concluded this, I have gone on to consider the possible scenarios for how these 
transactions took place. Ill explore these scenarios in turn. 
It is possible, as Mr R has suggested, that Mr Cs partner, her son or someone else known to 
her completed the transactions without Mr Cs consent. This includes the possibility that 
someone known to his partner completed the transactions without his partner being aware 
the transactions were taking place. But as Mr R accepts, there is no clear evidence of this. 
As we do not know what was agreed between Mr C and his partner, the increase in 
spending on the account in and of itself is not enough to lead me to conclude that it was 
someone other than Mr Cs partner who made the transactions  which I will go on to 
explore. I do think the most likely scenario is that Mr C allowed his partner to complete transactions 
on his account  that he gave her his card and PIN and said she could utilise funds in the 
account. It could be that Mr C had said she could use as much as she liked, or that he told 
her she could use a limited amount and she exceeded that agreement and completed 
excessive transactions. In the recording with Mr Cs partner and her son, the partner does 
initially say they had separate finances and no agreements in place regarding finances, but 
when she was specifically asked whether she had the cards and whether Mr C had told her 
she could use it, she said she had the cards in her possession the entire time and that Mr C 
had allowed her to use the account. I am not aware of any attempts by Mr C or anyone 
acting on his behalf to remove the cards from her during this time, and she would have had 
to be aware of his PIN in order to make the transactions. Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
that she obtained the PIN in any nefarious manner. So I do think this scenario is the most 
likely here. We cannot know what exactly was agreed between Mr C and his partner  or 
whether she acted outside of any agreement. But the relevant regulations say that even if 
she did make transactions in excess of what was agreed, payments can be considered 
authorised by Mr C even if he didnt know the extent of the transactions. This is because by 
informally giving someone permission to complete transactions on your account, you are 
then bound by the acts of that third party. If Mr C had enabled his partner to appear as if they 
had his authority to make payment transactions, those transactions are considered 
authorised even where Mr C didnt ask his partner to make those payments, or didnt know 
that they had. So, as I think it is most likely that Mr C gave his partner his card and PIN in 
order to complete transactions and he didnt end that authority by getting his card back or 
cancelling it and ordering a new one, it follows that the disputed transactions can be 
considered authorised even if it seemed clear Mr C didnt mean for his partner to take so 
much money from his account. So it follows that the estate of Mr C, not Nationwide, would 
be presumed liable for the authorised transactions made by the partner. 
But I have also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such, I think 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases 
decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm. 
So, where a payment or series of payments can be identified as unusual or out of character 
for an account, I would expect a bank to contact their consumer to discuss the payment or 
payments before allowing them to be processed, in order to ask them about the purpose of 
the transaction. The difficulty here is, even if I agree that the payments were unusual and out 
of character and ought to have led to further intervention by Nationwide  I am unable to say 
whether they ought to have stopped the payments. This again is because we do not know 
what the arrangement was between Mr C and his partner. It could be that if they contacted 
him, he would have simply confirmed that he had given his partner the card and she was making the transactions with his consent. Or it could be that it was uncovered that his 
partner or someone known to her was in fact acting without consent. So, even if I agreed 
that the payments ought to have triggered further action from Nationwide  I cannot say what 
would have happened. And as my role is to try and put customers back in the position they 
would have been but for any failings by a bank, not to punish them, I would have to be 
satisfied that it was most likely that the loss could have been prevented if Nationwide had 
intervened in order to ask them to refund the losses. And I am afraid I am not satisfied of this 
in this case. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman