DRN-3103507
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim under 
their home insurance policy for damage caused by a water leak.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim to UKI after discovering a water leak under their hall floor. They 
said after the leak was fixed, they noticed a bad smell in the property and started to feel 
unwell. Mr and Mrs S moved out of the property.
At first UKI rejected the claim. Later UKI agreed to send a surveyor to inspect the damage. 
He confirmed that there had been a water leak and that there was a negligible amount of 
mould in the property. He recommended that the floor void should be sanitised and an air 
scrubber used to remove mould spores from the air.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the surveyors report. They wanted UKI to remove all the mould 
from their home and pay for them and their family to stay elsewhere until that had been 
done.
UKI instructed a second expert. They found evidence of mould in two parts of the property 
(the lounge and the loft) but didnt think it had been caused by the water leak because they 
were some distance away from it. UKI said the property was safe for the family to return to.
Mr and Mrs S disputed this and appointed their own expert. Their expert criticised the way 
UKIs second expert had investigated the issue. He said hed found extremely high levels of 
potentially toxic mould throughout the property. He thought that had been caused by a long-
term water leak.
After Mr and Mrs S complained to UKI, it agreed to appoint a third expert to review the 
various reports. The review criticised the methods used by Mr and Mrs Ss expert and his 
conclusions.
UKI said the policy didnt cover damage that happened gradually. It also said there was no 
evidence the mould was linked to the water leak. 
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
didnt think UKI had treated them unfairly. 
As Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ss expert thought the water leak in their hall had caused substantial secondary 
damage to other areas of the property and dampness and mould in the property were the 
result of [a] long term uncontrolled water leak. Their builder said hed had to replace several 
supporting timbers that had started to rot due to the escape of water. Since rot is a slow 
process, this suggests to me that the leak had been going on for some time.
Their policy doesnt cover any damage caused gradually and UKI declined the claim for that 
reason. But if I think a consumer shouldnt (or shouldnt reasonably) have been aware of 
damage happening gradually and made the claim as soon as they did become aware, Id 
say a fair and reasonable outcome would be for the insurer not to rely upon the exclusion. 
This is because the consumer couldnt be expected to stop the damage from getting worse 
and so it would be unfair for their claim not to be accepted because of the exclusion. So Ill 
look at whether Mr and Mrs S should have been aware of the gradual damage.
Ive listened to the first call Mrs S made to UKI. She referred to there having been a problem 
with mould for months and said it had always been a damp house. Similarly Mr S told UKI 
theyd been struggling with damp in the house for quite some time.
Mr and Mrs Ss experts report includes photos of the floorboards in their hallway and 
lounge. These appear to have cupped. UKIs third expert explained that Cupping is 
caused by differential expansion of restrained floorboards where the wood has become wet 
on one side and begun to swell and because it cannot expand sideways it either 'cups' 
upwards or downwards. In this case it would appear the cupping is in downwards direction 
which indicates the floorboards have become wet on their under-surface, i.e. the exposed 
surface in the solum.
I accept that a lay person cant be expected to know whats caused their floorboards to 
expand even if the damage were particularly noticeable. And I dont think in Mr and Mrs Ss 
case, it was particularly noticeable. But even if I give Mr and Mrs S the benefit of the doubt 
on this point, they will still have to show that the water leak most likely caused the mould 
damage. I appreciate that their policy excludes damage caused by fungus and mould is a 
type of fungus. But if an insured peril (such as in this case a water leak) is the proximate (or 
main) cause of the mould damage, then Id say UKI should be responsible for indemnifying 
Mr and Mrs S in respect of it. So Ill look at whether the house wouldnt have been mouldy 
but for the water leak.
In the first report carried out for UKI its surveyor said:
No moisture has entered the property - walls, joists & floorboards are all dry. Customer said 
she is very sensitive to mould and can smell it in the house. There appears to be a small 
amount of mould under the floor but nothing of concern.
I note that this was based on a visual inspection as that surveyor didnt actually test for 
mould.
UKIs second expert found some mould in the lounge area but didnt think that was 
connected with the water leak as there were no water pipes under the floor in this part of the 
property and at the same time the level of mould spores in the floor cavity in the hall was 
acceptable. It thought there was no link between the water leak and indoor air quality in the 
property.
Similarly Mr and Mrs Ss expert found some of the lowest readings of spores in the floor 
cavity in the hall compared with other parts of the property. UKIs third expert thought this 
undermined the argument that mould contamination was coming out of the floor cavity and 
that seems a logical conclusion to me.Their expert also took a series of measurements to show how much humidity was in the 
property. UKIs third expert said the results of the measurements were incorrectly reported 
with the decimal point in the wrong place. It said it had recalculated the measurements 
using corrected data and the results showed that the air in all the rooms and the loft was 
dry enough for people to live in.
Mr and Mrs Ss expert found the sub-floor timbers appeared to be most wet in a ground 
floor room far from the leak. UKIs third expert thought this was inconsistent with the theory 
that the timbers had become wet as a result of the water leak as they were far from the 
location of the leak. It said if the water had originated from the leak the timbers closest to 
the leak should be the wettest rather than those furthest from the leak. That makes sense 
to me.
UKIs third expert went on to say that the fact that the floor joist was really quite wet and the 
underside of the floor board was 'damp' was more likely a sign of a slow acting but 
cumulative moisture build-up in the floor cavity. It thought the build-up of moisture in the 
floor cavity and the loft was probably due to poor ventilation.
Taking the above findings into account Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S have shown that 
the water leak most likely caused the mould. So whilst I realise that this will come as a big 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs S who with other members of their family have suffered 
severe health problems due to mould, on balance I dont think UKI acted unreasonably in 
declining this part of their claim on the basis that they hadnt shown the mould in their 
property was linked to the insured peril.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman