DRN-2105472
The complaint
Ms C complains Nationwide Building Society will not refund a disputed transaction.  She also 
complains that it should have blocked the unusual transaction and that it failed to cancel her 
card when she reported the fraud.
Nationwide says it believes Ms C authorised the transaction and so, will be holding her 
liable.  It also says it blocked her card when requested.
What happened
Ms C complained to Nationwide about a transaction made to an auction site.  She accepted 
she had placed a bid for some land  but said she had not provided the company with her 
card details as she wanted to speak to her solicitor first.  Yet, it successfully managed to 
take a payment of £5500.
Nationwide investigated Ms Cs complaint but said it was going to hold her liable for the 
payment.  It said it had spoken to the auction site and it had explained the following:
-Ms C had provided the first 12 digits of her card, expiry number and CVV number 
prior to the bid;
-once the bid had been successful, a member of staff from the auction site had 
spoken to Ms C who confirmed she wanted to proceed with the purchase and then 
provided the last 4 digits of her card
Based on this information, along with the inconsistencies from Ms C as to whether she had 
or had not provided her card details, Nationwide said it was not willing to refund the 
payment.
With regards to blocking the payment, Nationwide said the transaction did not alert its fraud 
system  hence why it was allowed to go through.
When Ms C came to this service, she said she had suffered a brain injury some years ago 
and that Nationwide was on notice of this.  It was suggested it should have taken further 
steps.
But when our investigator looked into matters, it appeared Nationwide was only put on notice 
of the injury in December 2019  some six months after the disputed transaction.
In relation to the transaction itself, our investigator thought Ms C had authorised the payment 
so he said he couldnt ask Nationwide to do anymore.  He re-iterated the position with 
regards fraud detection and the transaction not causing an alert  and in relation to 
cancelling the card, he thought Nationwide had carried out Ms Cs request when she made 
it.  However, he said even if there had been a delay by a day, it would have made any 
difference.  There had been no further payments taken by the company.
But Ms C was not happy with that outcome.  She asked that an ombudsman consider her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Ms C authorised 
the transaction, Nationwide is entitled to hold her liable.  But authorisation is a two-stage test 
involving authentication and consent.  And I remind myself it is for Nationwide to show Ms C 
authorised the transaction rather than for Ms C to show she did not.
The evidence is clear on authentication here.  Ms Cs card number, expiry date and CVV 
were entered into order to make the transaction.  So, I need to decide on whether Ms C 
consented to the payment taking place.
Ms C accepts looking out for potential purchases, she accepts this involved the merchant 
concerned and accepts she wanted to purchase a particular lot  but not until she had 
spoken to her solicitors.  Her submissions are not that she cannot remember sharing her 
details with the auction site  but that she categorically did not share them.
I dont think that can be right.  I think, on balance, she did share them, and she consented to 
the payment being taken.  Any other explanation just doesnt fit with the circumstances as 
Ms C presents them.
So, Ive thought about whether, with the information Nationwide had in its possession, it was 
fair in holding Ms C liable for the transaction  and I have concluded that it was.  I wont be 
asking that it refunds this money to Ms C.
In relation to Ms Cs submissions regarding Nationwides fraud prevention, its not for this 
service to comment on the systems Nationwide has in place.  My role is to decide whether it 
acted in fairly and in accordance with those systems  and I think it did.
Finally, Ive listened to the calls between Ms C and Nationwide on the day she reported the 
transaction and also the calls on the following day.  Having done so, I interpret the calls in 
very much the same way as the investigator.  I think there was some confusion on 18th June 
when Ms C called due to the fact that she lost the connection and had to call a second time 
and due to the fact that she had to be transferred to another department.  However, I think it 
is likely that by 19th June, her card had been cancelled and so no further payments were 
taken by the action site. 
In those circumstances, I cant fairly ask Nationwide to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman