DRN-2391502
The complaint
S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) are responsible for an international bank 
transfer not arriving at the beneficiarys bank.
What happened
S initiated an international bank transfer to a Moroccan bank. S says they made similar 
payments this way previously, but on this occasion the monies never arrived. S says when 
they asked Barclays to trace the payment, Barclays  were unhelpful and suggested he 
should chase the bank in Morocco as they had done all they could.
 
Barclays accept that they did make errors sending incorrect forms and have apologised and 
paid £75 as way of an apology for the poor service given. Barclays says their intermediary 
bank have confirmed the monies were transferred to the beneficiary bank and they have also  
contacted the beneficiary bank on several occasion without any response. Barclays say 
there is nothing more they can do here. S were unhappy with Barclays response and 
referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at the available information but didnt uphold Ss complaint as he felt 
Barclays had done everything they could after sending the payment, to trace its 
whereabouts.
S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting and difficult for S to understand why their 
international payment hadnt reached the beneficiaries bank account, when similar payments 
like this had been made in the past. 
When looking at this complaint I have considered whether Barclays correctly carried out Ss 
international bank payment instructions and did enough when trying to locate the missing 
payment.
What happened here is S made an international payment from its bank account in early 
January 2020 to a beneficiary in Morocco. S says similar payments like this had been made 
before, but this payment didnt arrive, so they contacted Barclays to check what had 
happened to the payment. 
From the information I have seen Barclays chased the recipient bank by instigating a 
payment trace and this service has seen confirmation from their correspondent bank in 
Morocco confirming the payment was completed and sent to the recipient bank. It's 
important to say the payment details the correspondent bank sent to the recipient bank, 
matched those of Ss payment instructions. From this I am satisfied the international 
payment details Barclays correspondent bank sent to the recipient bank were the same as 
instructed by S.
I can see that two MT103 forms were incorrectly completed by Barclays and they have 
accepted this wasnt good customer service and have made a payment to S of £75 to 
apologise, that said I cant see that this has affected the payment being received by the 
recipient bank or any reason why the monies havent been traced since. 
S says they have asked the recipient to check with his bank, but the funds havent arrived in 
his account. S are unhappy that they have now been left to contact the recipient bank and I 
understand the point they make here. Having said that from the information I have seen, 
Barclays and their correspondent bank in Morocco have made a number of attempts to 
contact the beneficiary bank in Morocco but have failed to get any response. Barclays have 
said they have also attempted to call the beneficiary bank but again without success. 
Barclays have also provided this service with details of the terms and conditions that were 
advised to S before instigating the trace on the payment at which time they advised S if the 
recipient bank fails to respond they (Barclays) would not be able to pursue this any further. 
So, I cant say S werent aware of this potential outcome. 
I am satisfied that Barclays have made several attempts to locate the funds but on balance 
the non- receipt of the international payment cant be attributed to Barclays making any 
errors when carrying out the instructions S gave them. While S may disagree, there is a limit 
to what else Barclays could do here given the attempts they have made to establish the 
whereabouts of the international payment. 
I am satisfied, on balance, the issue in all probability, lies with the recipient bank rather than 
any error Barclays have made when carrying out the payment from the instructions they 
were given. The evidence points to the recipient bank having been sent the funds here, but If 
they fail to correctly allocate the funds they were sent, which seems to be the case, I cant 
hold Barclays responsible for that. 
While S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman