DRN-3300102
The complaint
Ms H complains about Lowell Portfolio I Ltds handling of a debt they are seeking 
repayment of in her name.
What happened
Ms H previously had a loan with a bank. In July 2018, Lowell began contacting Ms H about 
this debt and asking her to make repayments. 
Ms H complained to Lowell in 2018 and 2019 about how they were handling her debt. She 
was unhappy the bank shed previously held the loan with had provided her details to Lowell 
without her knowledge or consent. And she felt Lowell had been harassing her for payment. 
She didnt think payment was due because she had an unresolved dispute with the original 
bank which shed provided details of to Lowell.
 
Lowell responded to Ms H on both occasions in 2018 and 2019. Both times they said the 
account had been sold to them by the previous bank in line with the terms and conditions of 
Ms Hs account. They had made enquiries with the bank about the unresolved dispute and 
found there wasnt one, despite Ms Hs assertion that there was, and they didnt think their 
contact had been harassing. 
Ms H complained a further time in late 2019. Along with the same issues as before, Ms H 
was now complaining that Lowell had decided to take legal action. Lowell responded to this 
complaint in a final response letter in January 2020. 
Ms H wasnt happy with Lowells responses to her concerns so she referred her complaint to 
our service. An Investigator considered the circumstances of Ms Hs complaint. She said 
there were some issues we could consider  specifically those covered by the final response 
letters dated October 2018 and January 2019. This includes the initial sale of the debt to 
Lowell, their actions in relation to the dispute with the bank and the intimidating nature of the 
correspondence. The Investigator said we couldnt consider the issues covered by the 
January 2020 final response because theyd been referred to us too late. This includes 
Lowells decision to begin legal proceedings. Ms H also told us in an email that she didnt 
consider this letter relevant to this complaint. 
 
Both Ms H and Lowell accepted what our Investigator said about which issues were in our 
jurisdiction. So she went on to consider the merits of Ms Hs complaint. 
The Investigator said:
She was satisfied Ms Hs account had been properly assigned to Lowell with effect 
from June 2018. 
Shed seen evidence that, when Ms H made Lowell aware she considered there to 
be an unresolved dispute with the bank, they contacted the bank about this. She felt 
theyd acted appropriately based on the information they received back from the 
bank. 
Shed considered all the correspondence Ms H had received from Lowell and didnt 
think it was inappropriate or harassing. 
Ms H replied to say she still felt Lowell had not treated her fairly since taking on her account. 
In particular because she didnt agree Lowell had acted appropriately in respect of the 
dispute with the bank or in its contact with her in general. 
As Ms H didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lowell has provided a copy of the notice of assignment it sent Ms H in July 2018. The notice 
of assignment confirms that all rights for Ms Hs account had been transferred to Lowell 
Portfolio I Ltd. So Im satisfied Lowell has a legitimate reason to be in contact with Ms H 
about this debt. 
Turning to the dispute with the original bank, Ms H alleges that some of her payments were 
not properly allocated to her loan account and has concerns about internal fraud at the bank. 
When Ms H told Lowell about these concerns they contacted the bank  which is as Id 
expect. The bank provided them a copy of the final response letter it had sent Ms H about 
these issues in April 2015. Ms H has told us and provided copy correspondence to show that 
she continued to be in touch with the bank after this but that the bank had stopped replying. 
In those circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lowell to consider the 
information they had received from both Ms H and the bank  and on the basis that the bank 
had issued a final response to Ms H a number of years prior to their purchase of the debt  
conclude that although Ms H considered the dispute unresolved, the bank did not.  
Ive reviewed all the correspondence Ms H has received from Lowell. Having done so, I dont 
agree there was anything inappropriate or harassing in the content or frequency. As Ive 
explained, Im satisfied Lowell was entitled to be in contact with Ms H to discuss repayment 
of the debt. And, as Ms H had not made arrangements with Lowell to make repayments, I 
dont find it unreasonable that Lowell continued to contact her about this. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Lowell was entitled to contact Ms H regarding this account and that 
their contact with her has not been harassing or inappropriate in any other way. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman