DRN-4297504
The complaint
Mr L complains that NewDay Limited, (trading as Aqua) wont refund him for transactions he 
says he didnt make or authorise totalling just under £400. Mr L also complains that NewDay 
increased his credit limit without his knowledge.
What happened
Mr L has an Aqua credit card account, which he opened in 2019. When Mr L opened his 
account, the credit limit available to him was £600. Between December 2021 and January 
2022, NewDay wrote to Mr L and offered to increase the credit limit of Mr Ls account, and it 
steadily increased to £5,850. In January 2022, Mr Ls credit limit was increased to £6,200, 
via Mr Ls online account.
Mr L says he had no knowledge of the increases to believed that the credit limit of his 
account was much less and was actually £3,200. Not £6,200. He says he only found out that 
his credit limit had risen to just over £6,000 when he called NewDay after trying to increase 
his credit limit from £3,200 to £3,500, which was declined. At the time Mr Ls balance was 
just under £6,500.
Mr L complained to NewDay. He said he had never received any letters about his credit limit 
increasing and had no recollection that it had increased to the level it had. He said he never 
received any account statements and had no idea that his balance had risen to just over 
£6,000. Mr L told NewDay that he wouldnt pay back anything above £3,200 and he is 
unhappy that he is being pursued to repay the money.
Mr L also disputed three cash withdrawal transactions which were made using his credit card 
in February 2021, June 2021, and September 2021. Mr L told NewDay that he didnt 
recognise these transactions. And hadnt made them. So, he asked NewDay to refund the 
transactions.
NewDay investigated and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. It concluded that 
it was likely Mr L authorised the transactions. NewDay also said that Mr L was aware that his 
credit limit had increased. In summary it said:
From January 2022 until August 2022, Mr L has accessed his online account 
manager to view statements, make payments and request credit limits. As Mr L 
viewed his statements and accessed his online account, he would have been able to 
see that his credit limit was £6,200, and the spending on his account 
It sent Mr L letters to his home address in May 2021 increasing his credit limit to 
£4,350 and September 2021 offering to increase his credit limit to £5,850, which Mr L 
didnt decline
Mr L requested an increase of £6,200 to his account credit limit through his online 
account manager in January 2022, which required security credentials to access
There was no plausible explanation for how an unknown third party was able to gain 
access to Mr Ls online banking to increase Mr Ls credit limit
The disputed transactions were made using Mr Ls genuine card and PIN. 
There were no failed PIN attempts when the transactions took place
There was no plausible explanation for how someone else was able to take Mr Ls 
bank card, guess his PIN and use the card to make the transactions
Mr L hadnt reported his card lost or stolen
There were numerous undisputed transactions in between the disputed transactions
The disputed transactions reduced Mr Ls credit limit, but he didnt report the matter 
until sometime after the last disputed transaction had been made. 
Mr L disagreed with NewDays decision. He said he wasnt aware his credit limit had been 
increased and hadnt spent the money. So, he brought his complaint to this service where 
one of our investigators looked into the matter. 
Based on the evidence she thought Mr L more likely than not authorised the transactions. In 
summary she said there was no plausible explanation for how an unknown third party could 
gain access to Mr Ls credit card and be aware of Mr Ls PIN to make the transactions. She 
also said that Mr Ls card was generally used to make cash withdrawals. The investigator 
said that Mr L was aware of the credit limit increases to his account. 
NewDay agreed. Mr L didnt He said he didnt know anything about the transactions and 
maintained he didnt know about the credit limit increases. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it clear that this decision will focus on Mr Ls complaint points that NewDay 
didnt make him aware of his credit card limit increases and transactions that he disputes.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions, 
the relevant regulations, and the evidence. Both Mr L and NewDay have read the 
investigators view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of 
my decision. However, I can assure Mr L that Ive read the file, including his comments and 
evidence. 
Credit card limit increase
Mr L says that he was unaware his credit card account limit had been increased to £6,200. 
Hes said that he never agreed to any increases, and never received any letters from 
NewDay about raising the limit on his account. Hes said that as far as he is concerned his 
credit card limit was £3,200, so he wont be repaying anything above this amount.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Mr L was aware that his credit card limit 
went up between August 2020 and January 2021. I say this because NewDay has provided 
this service with copies of letters it sent to Mr Ls address showing the increases made to 
Mr Ls account. The letters are:
Dated 12 August 2020 increasing Mr Ls credit limit to £1,500
Dated 16 September 2020 increasing Mr Ls credit limit to £2,850
Dated 17 May 2021 increasing Mr Ls credit limit to £4,350
Dated 14 September 2021 increasing Mr Ls limit to £5,850
I havent seen any evidence that Mr L was having problems receiving post, and I can see 
that the letters were correctly addressed. So, I think its likely he did receive the letters letting 
him know that NewDay was increasing his credit limit. I note too that each letter told Mr L 
that if he didnt want to accept the increase, he just needed to let NewDay know. Ive not seen any evidence that Mr L contacted NewDay to say that he was unhappy with the 
increases.
NewDay has also provided technical evidence that shows Mr L logged onto his online 
banking on 31 January 2022 at 12:03 hours and increased his credit limit to £6,200. In order 
to access Mr Ls online banking, a username and password are needed. Ive not seen any 
evidence that Mr L has disclosed these details to anyone else. So, I think its likely it was 
Mr L who logged in and increased the account limit. 
From looking at the technical evidence I can also see that Mr L accessed his account online 
regularly to check his account, statements and make payments. On each occasion Mr Ls 
credit limit would have been displayed on the screen along with his balance. I note too that 
Mr L requested a payment holiday on 12 February 2022 until April 2022, via his online 
account.  NewDay followed up this request by sending Mr L a letter, and this letter showed 
Mr L had a credit limit of £6,200 and balance of £6,338.70. So, all in all I think its likely that 
Mr L was aware of his credit limit. And had agreed to the increases. 
Disputed transactions
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr L authorised the 
disputed payments, NewDay is entitled to hold him liable. The relevant regulations, to this 
effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Mr L says he didnt 
make the disputed transactions, so my primary concern is to come to a view about whether 
or not I think Mr L authorised the transactions either by making them himself or allowing a 
third party to do so.  
Having reviewed NewDays technical evidence, Im satisfied that Mr Ls card details were 
used to make the disputed transactions and that they were authenticated. Authentication is 
the use of any procedure by which a bank is able to verify the use of a specific payment 
instrument, including its personalised security features. This can be done in a number of 
ways (e.g., chip and PIN, card number, CVV and expiry date etc.) In this case, NewDay 
has been able to provide evidence that the genuine card and PIN were used. So, Im 
satisfied that the payments from Mr Ls account was authenticated. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that this is not on its own enough to enable 
NewDay to hold Mr L liable for the transactions. So, I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr L consented to the transactions being 
made or whether he is the victim of fraud as hes suggested. 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im persuaded that Mr L did consent to the transactions he 
is disputing. I say this because:
NewDays technical records show the three transactions were made using Mr Ls 
genuine card and PIN. The card wasnt reported as lost or stolen. So, theres no 
plausible explanation for how an unknown third party could do this without Mr Ls 
consent. I say this because the person using Mr Ls card would need his card and 
PIN.  I think it unlikely that an unknown third party would be able to guess Mr Ls PIN 
correctly. 
The disputed transactions took place months apart  in February 2021, June 2021, 
and September 2021. This means the fraudster needed access to Mr Ls credit card 
over a period of several months. I think its unlikely that an unknown third party 
without any connection to Mr L wouldve been able to do this.
This would mean a third party would have to take and replace Mr Ls credit card 
without being noticed over a period of eight months at different times. They would 
also have to have obtained Mr Ls security details (Mr Ls PIN). I dont think that an unknown third party would risk taking Mr Ls credit card, replacing it, taking it again, 
completing further transactions and then returning it. This back and forth wouldve 
created an unnecessary risk of alerting Mr L that fraudulent transactions were taking 
place. 
The disputed transactions dont fit the usual pattern of fraud. I say this because 
usually a fraudster will try and maximise the usage of the account to get the greatest 
benefit from the account before the account holder notices their funds are missing 
and the card is cancelled. But this didnt happen. Instead, the disputed transactions 
took place months apart and were of low value - £100, £230, and £50.
Mr L made a high volume of undisputed transactions from his account including cash 
withdrawals in the same area during the period the disputed transactions were made. 
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not satisfied theres evidence of fraud here. Based on 
the evidence, the most likely explanation here is that Mr L authorised the disputed 
transactions. So, in the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask NewDay to refund 
Mr L.
Finally, I note that Mr L says hes unhappy that NewDay are asking him to repay the 
payments above what he believed to be his credit limit  in other words everything over 
£3,200.  He is upset that NewDay have sent him a default notice and are pursuing him for 
money it says he owes. I can appreciate that the situation is no doubt stressful for Mr L. But 
for the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that Mr L authorised the three transactions on 
his account which he disputes. I also havent seen any evidence that Mr L disputes making 
any other transactions that ultimately led to Mr Ls current balance. So, NewDay is entitled to 
ask him to repay the money he owes. I would however remind NewDay of its obligation to 
treat a case of financial difficulty in a positive and sympathetic manner is an ongoing one; 
but Mr L also needs to be aware that that obligation wont necessarily prevent NewDay from 
seeking repayment in the future. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman