DRN-2441280
The complaint
Mr E has said Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday) lent to him irresponsibly. Mr E said he 
was accepted for two personal loans, when Everyday should have known these werent 
affordable for him. 
What happened
In December 2017 Everyday lent £5,000 to Mr E. This loan agreement was for a period of 60 
months  with Mr E due to repay an amount of £10,185 by the end of the loan agreement. 
Eight months later, Everyday lent to Mr E again. This time it was for an amount of £6,900. 
This lending cleared the previous loan provided in December 2017. And, Mr E said the aim 
of this loan was for him to purchase work tools  because his had recently been stolen. The 
term of this loan was shorter than that of the first. It was for 48 months  with the monthly 
payments being £259.32. By the end of this loan agreement, Mr E would have paid 
£14,175.36.
Mr E feels Everyday did the wrong thing by lending to him on both occasions. He has 
explained that if Everyday had carried out more detailed checks about his situation before 
lending to him  it would have realised that the loans were unaffordable for him.
Because Mr E was unhappy with this, he raised a complaint with Everyday. Everyday said it 
was satisfied it carried out a number of checks before it agreed to provide Mr E with both 
loans. It explained it had carried out these checks to make sure the loans were affordable, 
and that the repayments would be sustainable for Mr E. It noted the checks included credit 
file, affordability, employment and identity checks. And, based on what these checks 
showed, it had been satisfied that the loans were affordable.
Mr E was dissatisfied with Everydays response. So, he referred his complaint to this service 
for an independent review.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In respect of 
the loan provided in December 2017, our investigator said he was satisfied that Everyday 
loan had carried out proportionate checks to see whether the loan would be sustainable for 
Mr E. And he didnt think it reasonably needed to ask for any more information that it did at 
that point.
In respect of the second loan, our investigator didnt think Everyday did enough to 
understand whether Mr Es situation at the time of the loan application. He said the checks 
that Everyday had completed showed that Mr E had defaulted in respect of four accounts 
and the amount of lending showing on Mr Es credit file had significantly increased. In 
addition to this, the affordability check Everyday relied on when thinking about Mr Es salary 
didnt confidently rate the income Mr E was receiving. So, he felt Everyday should have 
completed further checks to gain a fuller picture of the situation. 
However, our investigator then thought about whether, if increased checks had been 
completed, this would have made a difference to Everydays lending decision. And, he didnt 
think it would have. This was because dispute the defaults on Mr Es file, and the increase in 
borrowing, he still appeared to have enough disposable income to sustainably repay the 
lending. 
Mr E didnt agree. Mr E still felt Everyday should not have lent to him. And, Mr E said he had 
paid off the capital borrowed  and the level he was still having to pay back  which included 
the interest on the loan  was unfair.
Because Mr E didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Its important to highlight that when coming to my decision Ive taken into account the 
relevant law, rules and guidance in relation to concerns about irresponsible lending. And, 
having considered these, and the circumstances of Mr Es complaint, I dont think Everyday 
lent to Mr E when this was unaffordable. Ive explained the reasons for this decision below.
When considering Mr Es complaint, Ive needed to consider the below key issues;
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks, to satisfy itself that 
Mr E would be able to make repayments on the loans in a sustainable way? 
If Everyday did complete the above  was a fair decision made, in respect of whether 
to lend to Mr E.
If Everyday didnt complete the above, would reasonable and proportionate checks 
have shown Mr E would have been able to make repayments in a sustainable way?
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr E in any other way?
Ive done this in relation both the loans Everyday agreed to provided to Mr E, and have 
addressed these separately below.
December 2017 loan
At the point that Everyday provided this loan to Mr E, it was required to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of whether Mr E could afford to make the loan repayments in a 
sustainable way. And, when carrying out checks to make sure this was the case, the checks 
made had to be borrower focused. So, this means Everyday had to consider the impact 
lending would have on Mr E  not just how likely it was that Everyday would receive its 
money back by the end of the term.
As above, Everyday also had to make sure the checks completed were proportionate to the 
circumstances of the loan. Whether a check is proportionate will depend on the 
circumstances of the loan being applied for. So, checks could include a number of things, 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. So, Ive considered this in relation to the loan agreed in December 2017. To do this, Ive 
looked at what checks Everyday completed, and what information it gathered at the time of 
lending, to see whether the checks it made were proportionate enough for Everyday to be 
confident the lending would be sustainable for Mr E.
I can see that for this first application Everyday asked Mr E what his income was  and this 
was verified by it seeing a copy of Mr Es employment contract, showing his annual salary. In 
addition to this, Everyday checked Mr Es credit file  which showed no adverse information 
or other current borrowing in Mr Es name.
Everyday then has explained it calculated Mr Es disposal income, using figures from the 
Office of National Statistics (ONS). And, this showed that after the loan repayment Mr E 
would need to pay each month, he would have a disposable income of £800.  
Given the type of loan, its term of 60 month and how much the loan was for, I think the 
above checks were reasonable and proportionate. I think they built a picture of Mr Es 
circumstances to ensure that the loan was something he would be able to sustainably pay 
each month. And because of that, I think Everyday did make a responsible decision in 
agreeing to lend to Mr E at this point.
September 2018 loan
Mr Es circumstances had changed by the time of this loan. Mr E was self-employed  and 
was seeking a loan to pay for work tools recently stolen. 
Because this was a new loan application, Everyday again needed to make sure the checks it 
did were reasonable and proportionate  and borrower focused  to see whether it was 
possible for Mr E to repay the loan in a sustainable way.
In respect of this loan, I dont think Everyday carried out proportionate checks. I say this 
because the checks Everyday did complete raised questions about Mr Es circumstances, 
and whether Mr E would be able to repay the loan sustainably. And it didnt explore these 
questions any further  to be sure lending to Mr E was the right thing to do.
Everyday did complete an affordability check, to assess what Mr Es salary was. But the 
affordability check it completed highlighted that there was only a five out of ten confidence 
score that the number on the affordability data was an accurate reflection of Mr Es salary. 
Given this, I think it would have been reasonable for Everyday to ask more questions about 
Mr Es income.
In addition to this, the credit check Everyday ran, shows Mr Es lending had significantly 
increased since the first loan in December 2017. And, the credit check also showed Mr E 
had defaulted on four of his credit obligations  which I think should have prompted 
Everyday to complete a more detailed review into Mr Es circumstances  - to make sure 
further lending would be reasonable in this case.
Given the above, I do think Everyday acted unfairly in the level of checks it made.
However, it doesnt necessarily follow that, had more proportionate checks been made, 
these would have shown lending to Mr E wasnt the right thing to do. So, Ive needed to think 
about whether, had more proportionate checks been completed these who have shown 
Everyday that the lending was unsustainable.
To do this, Ive considered information provided by Mr E in relation to his circumstances at 
the time. This has included details of his income and expenditure. And based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think the additional checks would have shown the lending to be unsustainable. The bank statements Mr E has provided for the months prior to this loan show that, once he 
had paid his regular outgoings, he would have still had funds to make the loan repayment, 
and still have disposable income for other expenses either necessary or chosen. 
As a result, whilst I think Everyday could have done more in the way it assessed Mr Es 
ability to repay, I dont think that additional checks would have shown the lending to be 
unaffordable or unsustainable for Mr E. And given this, Im satisfied Everydays decision to 
lend wasnt unfair.
Lastly, in relation to both loans, Ive thought about whether any of the information provided 
suggests Everyday acted unfairly to Mrs E in any other way. And there isnt anything within 
this information that leads me to think it did. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Everyday Lending Limited to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman