DRN-2922571
The complaint
Mr C complains National Westminster Bank Plc will not refund some disputed transactions.  
he is assisted in his complaint by his solicitors  but for ease, I will refer to all submissions as 
if made by Mr C.
What happened
Mr C complained to NatWest in 2020 about some transactions on his savings account.  The 
transactions took place between 2014 and 2016 and consisted of ATM transactions  with 
numerous being carried out daily.  Mr C said he had complained in March 2016 and was told 
that someone would respond but they never did.  He said he was complaining now because 
he hadnt been well since then and he had been dealing with the death of his wife.
In March 2014, Mr Cs current account received a credit of approximately £183000.  The 
following month, he transferred £130000 of this money into his savings account.  From 
September 2014 until February 2016, there were consistent withdrawals from the account 
which used up the full funds.  Most of the transactions were ATM withdrawals but some were 
account transfers made back to Mr Cs current account in branch.  He wasnt disputing these 
transfers  just the ATM withdrawals.
Mr C said NatWest ought to have picked up on the unusual activity on his account and this 
could have prevented these transactions from continuing.
NatWest didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said he had raised a disputed transaction 
complaint about his current account in 2015 and queried why he hadnt raised these 
transactions from his savings account at that point.  In any event, it said its fraud system had 
no reason to flag up the spending on the account and it deemed this to be genuine.  Mr Cs 
genuine card was being used as well as his PIN and the spending had been consistent with 
the spending on his current account.
NatWest further confirmed it had refunded some transactions to Mr C in 2015.
In its final response to Mr C, NatWest did appear to acknowledge that Mr C had made a 
complaint in branch in 2016 and that it ought to have looked into matters for him then.  It 
apologised for not doing so but re-iterated its stance that Mr C had the opportunity of raising 
the transactions in 2015 too. Ultimately, it said it wasnt going to uphold his complaint.
So, Mr C came to this service.  Amongst other things, he told us the following:
- he had never lost his card nor was it ever out of his possession - and he had never 
shared his PIN with anyone
- his wife had died in 2016 and he had been caring for her until her death
- the credit into his current account had come from an investment which he had 
decided to withdraw as he thought his money was better invested with NatWest
- he had taken on a female lodger during Easter 2016 and she had lived with him until 
August 2016.  There was some confusion on Mr Cs part as to when he first met this 
individual  originally it was 2015 but later on he said it was 2014 and then 2013
- this female had been his dog walker and cleaner since he had met her, and she had 
held a key to his house.  Mr C said this gave her the opportunity to enter his house, 
take his debit card and search for his PIN which he had written down in his address 
book.  Mr C believed she was responsible for the transactions
- he had required a carer to care for him physically
- the reason he had taken so long to report these transactions to NatWest was 
because of his wifes death and then illnesses
- when he made the transfers in branch, he does not recall being given a receipt which 
would have included his remaining balance.
In its submissions to this service, NatWest reminded us that the transactions on Mr Cs 
account were not so out of character as to alert its security system.  It also said that due to 
the passage of time, it was unable to tell us whether staff in branch would have ever spoken 
to Mr C about his spending.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask NatWest to do anymore.  He explained this to Mr C 
in some detail, but Mr C made further submissions and asked that an ombudsman consider 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions, the 
relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr C and NatWest have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr C that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence.
When I considered Mr Cs case, and the delay, I noted that NatWest appeared to accept in 
its final response letter that Mr C had raised this complaint in branch in 2016.  I thought it 
should pay Mr C some compensation for not dealing with matters then and I wrote to both 
sides about this point.  Had it responded in 2016, Mr C would have had an outcome to his 
complaint some time ago.  For that delay, I suggested NatWest ought to pay Mr C £400.  
NatWest agreed.  Mr C neither confirmed nor refused the offer.
However, considering the transactions themselves, I arrived at the same conclusion as the 
investigator  and for very much the same reasons.  I thought the evidence showed Mr C to 
have authorised these transactions.
There are two aspects to authorisation  authentication and consent.  Authentication is the 
use of Mr Cs genuine card and PIN and from the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied that 
the payments were authenticated.I must then decide whether the evidence shows Mr C consented to these payments and for 
the following reasons I think he did.
Mr C has been inconsistent with the evidence surrounding his female lodger.  Originally, he 
told this service that he himself had given her money during a few months in 2016. 
Therefore, he said she could not have been involved in these transactions.  He then said 
that she had had access to his home from as far back as 2015 because she had been his 
dog walker.  This date then changed to 2014 and then 2013 and whilst Mr C says the mix up 
between 2013 and 2014 is an error on his part, I have also considered the rest of the 
evidence in relation to this possibility.
I sympathise with Mr Cs position and accept that the last few years have not been easy for 
him  but I think it ought to be clear to Mr C as to when he met this individual and when, if 
ever, she had access to his home.  From the responses Ive seen so far, it seems to me that 
Mr C is changing these details so that it starts to look more likely than not that she may well 
be responsible.  Unfortunately for Mr C though, I cant accept that he is a reliable and 
consistent witness.
NatWest is unable to tell this service whether Mr C would have been provided with an 
updated balance every time he made a transfer to his current account.  Mr C says he was 
not, and therefore he hadnt noticed the balance depleting over the years.  So, Ive thought 
about what is more likely than not to have happened  and I think its likely that Mr C would 
have been provided with his balance whilst in branch.  Mr C acknowledges that staff had told 
him someone would be in contact about the large transfer into his account and the potential 
for investments.  This never happened but it seems to me that both NatWest and Mr C were 
on notice that the large balance in his account ought to be invested.  I dont think its likely Mr 
C, having made the payment into his account, would then pay little attention to his balance 
over the years.
Ive also thought about whether Mr C ought to share the responsibility in this complaint being 
dealt with so long after the transactions.  Whilst I have already made an award for NatWests 
part, I think it would be only fair to raise the point that Mr C also had a responsibility to 
remind NatWest after 2016 that he had an outstanding complaint over a large sum of money.  
Again, I accept the difficult times which then followed for Mr C, but considering the value 
involved, I think he would have raised this issue with NatWest again had he genuinely not 
made or authorised these transactions.
Finally, and in the context of this complaint, I place some weight on the fact that there is no 
credible evidence of how Mr Cs card and PIN could have been compromised.  And I make 
this finding considering my comments above regarding this individual who Mr C says was 
responsible for making these transactions.
So, I think Mr C authorised these transactions  either by making them himself or allowing 
someone to make them for him.
Having made this finding, Ive considered whether NatWest could have done anymore in 
protecting Mr Cs account  and I dont think it could.  
The starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, 
in exceptional cases, I may ask whether the bank shouldve identified any unusual or out 
of character transactions that could involve fraud or financial abuse. There is industry 
guidance on this in the BSI Code of Practice on Protecting Customers from Financial 
harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse. This is persuasive evidence of what banks can do to protect customers, especially vulnerable customers. 
So, Ive considered whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in allowing these 
transactions to continue.  Whilst the transactions were unusual for a savings account, I 
dont think they were unusual in the context of Mr Cs spending on his current account.  
And they werent made rapidly in quick succession  rather over a period of years.
Having decided that he authorised the payments, I dont think any further conversations to 
alert him would have changed what happened.
Taking everything into account, I think £400 is a fair and reasonable sum to compensate 
Mr C for NatWest not responding to his complaint in 2016.  However, I will not be asking 
that it does anymore in relation to the transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  
National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr C £400 for the delays caused in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman