DRN-4324211
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited delayed in repairing her boiler, and 
said she needed it powerflushed  which Mrs H feels wasnt necessary.
What happened
Towards the end of 2021, Mrs Hs boiler stopped working. She had a Homecare policy with 
British Gas. So she contacted them to arrange for an engineer to attend and fix the problem.
Mrs H says an engineer was booked to attend in early December. But no engineer attended 
on that day or on several rearranged appointments. Eventually, an engineer attended at the 
end of January. He tried - unsuccessfully - to repair the boiler and concluded there was a 
blockage which would need to be cleared by a powerflush.  This wasnt covered by the 
Homecare policy and cost £840.
A powerflush was completed a few weeks later. But the problems with the boiler persisted, 
leaving Mrs H and her family without heating or hot water. It was a further three weeks 
before these were resolved.
Mrs H complained to British Gas about the missed appointments, that theyd been charged 
for the powerflush. She felt the fact this hadnt worked proved it was unnecessary and she 
shouldnt have to pay for it. And that the reason it was recommended was because British 
Gas had failed to complete three of the previous four annual services provided as part of the 
Homecare package.
British Gas acknowledged annual services hadnt been done and refunded the cost of these.  
And they said they would send Mrs H a cheque for £250 to recognise the delays and 
shortcomings in the service shed received. But they said the powerflush had been 
necessary and so they wouldnt write off the £840 Mrs H owed for that.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with British Gass response and brought her complaint to our service.  
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded the compensation British Gas had 
sent Mrs H was fair. But he thought that, in addition, they should waive the £840 invoice for 
the powerflush, because no evidence had been produced to show this was necessary.  
British Gas maintained theyre entitled to the fee for the powerflush. 
The matter was passed to me.  I didnt agree with our investigators conclusions.  So I made 
a provisional decision.
I was satisfied the £250 British Gas had paid Mrs H for missed appointments was 
reasonable  in the absence of any evidence to persuade me otherwise.  In relation to the 
powerflush, I noted British Gass job history showed there was a blockage and that the water 
in the boiler was black.  So I was satisfied it was reasonable to suggest a power flush to 
resolve these issues.
But I also noted the powerflush didnt do that  nor that the actual problem was identified or 
addressed as a result of its completion.  In these circumstances, I provisionally decided the 
fairest outcome was for the cost of the powerflush to be split between Mrs H and British Gas, 
and they pay £420 each.
Both parties have now provided their comments on my provisional decision and the 
complaints been passed back to me to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive noted that both parties responded to my provisional decision by each 
agreeing to pay £420 for the powerflush.  So Im upholding this complaint for the reasons 
which I set out in my provisional decision, and which Ive summarised above.
Putting things right
I said in my provisional decision that the £250 compensation British Gas had paid Mrs H was 
reasonable.  Neither party has challenged that part of my provisional decision so I see no 
reason to come to any different conclusion here.  I note British Gas had sent Mrs H a cheque 
for this amount before the complaint was referred to me.  On the basis payment has been 
made, I dont think British Gas need to do anything further in relation to the payment of this 
compensation.
As I said above, both parties have agreed the cost of the powerflush should be split between 
them, with each paying £420.  So my final decision is they should do that.
Since confirming this, Mrs H has told us she continues to be contacted by solicitors seeking 
to recover the full cost of £840 from her.  This is clearly contrary to British Gass confirmation 
to us that they would reduce Mrs Hs contribution to £420.  So British Gas should instruct 
their solicitors to cease pursuing Mrs H for payment of £840.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint about British Gas Insurance 
Limited and directing British Gas to:
Limit the amount payable by Mrs H for the powerflush to £420;
Instruct their solicitors to cease pursuit of the outstanding invoice for £840.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman