DRN-3614141
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complaint is about the service and advice they received before they applied 
for their mortgage via Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB). Theyve said that the adviser 
wasnt available to discuss their queries and didnt respond to them in a timely manner when 
they were put in writing. They also believe that they werent advised to have the right type of 
survey on the house, which meant they werent told about problems with the property before 
they bought it. In addition, theyve said that it was not agreed that the interest rate product 
fee was to be rolled into the mortgage, and statements in the suitability report are false.
In settlement of the complaint Mr S and Mrs S want MAB to refund the fee they paid it. In 
addition, they want compensation for the mental anxiety and stress they suffered, negligence 
in the service they received and the financial loss they will experience due to the product fee 
being added to the mortgage debt. They have said the compensation should also cover the 
fact that theyve spent months following up with the builder of the property about problems, 
that they believe a different type of survey would have picked up on. 
What happened
In December 2020 Mr S and Mrs S had an existing property and wanted to move home. The 
property they wanted to buy was a new-build available from a property developer. As part of 
the transaction, they part-exchanged their existing home. Mr S and Mrs S have told us that 
the developer/estate agent insisted that they use MAB for their new mortgage arrangements.
The property purchase was agreed on 11 December 2020 and Mr S and Mrs S have 
confirmed the developer required the purchase to complete within 28 days. Four days later 
Mr S and Mrs S had a meeting with MAB to complete a full fact finding process. 
The fact find document the adviser completed to record Mr S and Mrs S needs and 
requirements set out that Mr S was employed and Mrs S was a houseperson. They had two 
children, they owned their existing home unencumbered, and their net monthly household 
income from Mr S basic salary was around £4,000 per month. Mr S also received bonuses 
and commission on top of his basic salary. They had £150,000 in savings and investments, 
some of which were to be used for the new house purchase. In addition, they were 
part-exchanging their existing home for £325,000. Mr S and Mrs S priority was a new 
mortgage for their house move. They wanted a mortgage of £470,000 and their budget for 
the mortgage was £2,000 per month. The fact find confirmed that Mr S and Mrs S protection 
needs werent discussed at that time.
The fact find went on to detail the mortgage the adviser was recommending. This was for a 
mortgage with lender B over a term of 25 years, on a repayment basis, and with a ten-year 
1.99% fixed interest rate product. It was detailed that the product application fee was to be 
added to the loan. In addition, Mr S and Mrs S confirmed that they were not planning to pay 
lump sums or make regular overpayments to the mortgage. The monthly mortgage payment 
was £1,989.93. An illustration document was provided; it reinforced the details contained in 
the fact find and set out further information, including an early repayment charge (ERC) 
being payable due to the interest rate product.
Another illustration for a mortgage with lender N was produced for a mortgage with a five-
year fixed interest rate product. The other details of the mortgage matched those of the 
recommended mortgage with B.
On 16 December 2020 Mr S emailed the adviser at MAB and confirmed that he and Mrs S 
wanted to go with the mortgage with B. He also told the adviser he wanted to avoid multiple 
credit checks and so he wanted the adviser to speak to him if it was though it likely more 
than one would be run. Mr S confirmed that hed emailed some documentation that had 
been requested and he also asked some questions. He asked whether B would accept the 
application on the basis of a shorter term and whether the mortgage could be paid off before 
the end of the term. He also asked that the adviser ensured that there was flexibility within 
the mortgage (subject to eligibility) to increase or decrease the borrowing amount before 
completion of the purchase if it was needed. 
Mr S chased a response to his email two days later and again three days after that. He 
provided the adviser with scanned copies of documents on 22 December 2020 and asked 
for a copy of the mortgage application. When he didnt receive a response, tried alternative 
people at MAB to chase up a response. He was told the adviser was unavailable, but some 
further information was requested. Mr S provided this and asked for a copy of the mortgage 
application to be sent to him electronically.
Mr S chased for the copy application and responses to his questions. He did so again 
immediately after Christmas. He was referred to the administrator dealing with his 
application. Mr S has said that he was asked again for information that hed already 
provided, but he provided it again. Theres nothing on the business file about this. 
The mortgage application was sent to B and this detailed that Mr S and Mrs S didnt want the 
product fee added to the mortgage. In addition, it was detailed that the type of valuation 
required was a Property Risk Assessment, also known as a standard valuation.
MAB tried to call Mr S with an update on 30 December 2020 and when it couldnt reach him, 
it emailed him with details of further information B. The administrator contacted him again on 
14 January 2021 about additional documentation B required.
Mr S provided the administrator with the requested information on the same day and asked 
for an electronic copy of the mortgage application and the lender correspondence to be sent 
to him for review. He also asked what the shortest term the lender would allow, in his and 
Mrs S financial situation. Mr S chased the administrator for a response the following day. It 
doesnt appear the enquiries were responded to at that time. 
On 18 January 2021 Mr S emailed the adviser and forwarded the email to the administrator. 
He asked the adviser for a copy of the mortgage offer as his solicitor was waiting for it. He 
also said that the change of term was a question to enable him to understand what the 
minimum term the lender could offer without any disruption. He said he would confirm, after 
receipt of the information, if any further action was required. 
Two days later, having not had a response to his questions, Mr S contacted the head of 
mortgage services at MAB (SB). SB apologised for the advisers responses not being up to 
scratch. It was explained that as the adviser was very busy with client appointments, an 
administrator had been appointed as Mr S point of contact to progress the application. An 
update on the status of the application was provided and that, as it would take up to a week 
for the recently provided information to be assessed, MAB wouldnt expect a response 
before 25 January 2021. Regarding Mr S question about changing to a shorter term, SB 
confirmed that it could submit that request to B. Alternatively, SB offered to calculate the 
costs, and if B wouldnt allow the term to be reduced, Mr S and Mrs S could make overpayments to effectively reduce the term, which would be a more flexible arrangement. 
Two days later SB provided figures for the shorter term, which increased the monthly 
payments by around £370.
On 25 January 2021 the mortgage adviser emailed Mr S to confirm that the valuation had 
been completed and there was no problem with it. The lender was, therefore, completing its 
assessment of the application. He confirmed that once this process was complete, either he 
or the administrator would be in touch. He also confirmed that hed be sending his suitability 
report. 
Mr S chased or the suitability report on 28 January 2021 as it hadnt been received. The 
adviser responded the following day and confirmed it would be sent on 29 January 2021. It 
wasnt sent until 2 February 2021. 
The suitability report started by highlighting some important information. Included in this 
section of the document it said that Mr S and Mrs S had agreed to have a review of their 
protection and general insurance provision and needs, to ensure that they were adequate. It 
said the adviser would contact them shortly about this issue.  It then set out their objectives 
and priorities. These were detailed as buying a property for £915,000 and arranging a 
mortgage of £470,000 to do so. They wanted fixed mortgage payments that would last no 
longer than ten years. In relation to the fess associated with the mortgage it said:
You chose to add fees to your mortgage even though you have funds available to cover 
these. This was because you intend to pay the fees after completion, (as should your 
mortgage not complete for any reason the fees may not be refundable).
I made you aware, should you no pay these fees on completion, there would be a financial 
implication i.e. by adding these fees you will incur interest charges on the fee amount for the 
full term of your mortgage.
The adviser then went on to detail the mortgage he had recommended. It said that the 
25-year term had been recommended as it was the shortest term that fitted with Mr S and 
Mrs S £2,000 per month budget. The mortgage was to be on a repayment basis as Mr S 
and Mrs S wanted a guarantee that the mortgage was paid off by the end of the term. The 
fixed interest rate product recommended was for a period of ten years as it was important to 
them to secure their payments for as long as possible. The fact that there was an ERC 
associated with the interest rate product was highlighted. It was also detailed that the 
different options for surveys had been discussed.
The adviser went on to confirm some points about the mortgage offer  that it had an expiry 
date, so might need to be extended or a new offer issued. Neither of which were guaranteed 
to happen, and if they were what the possible consequences could be were detailed. 
On 3 February 2021 B issued the mortgage offer. 
Mr S emailed the adviser and the administrator on 4 February 2021 about the suitability 
report.  He said that some things documented in the report hadnt been discussed or were 
incorrect:
Protection needs were not discussed. He had no idea about the protection product that 
the report says was to be agreed. Protection was never requested. Mr S said he 
understood it was an option, but without explaining the benefits and financial 
implications, he was not in a position to make a decision.Hed specifically said they didnt want the product fee to be added to the mortgage and 
were happy to pay it up front. However, it had been added to the mortgage. Mr S asked if 
he had the option to pay it now?
The different types of valuations werent explained. He asked what they were and what 
type had been done. He asked what the impact of this was.
Two days later SB responded as the adviser was on holiday:
He clarified that the report didnt say hed agreed to protection product, but rather hed 
agreed to have his protection arrangements reviewed. In light of his comments, SB said 
he would mark the file as Mr S and Mrs S not wanting the review.
He apologised if an error had been made about the product fee. He said MAB could 
request an amended mortgage offer if Mr S and Mrs S were happy to pay the fee on 
completion. Alternatively, the fee could be left on the mortgage and an overpayment of 
£999 be made once the mortgage started. SB asked Mr S to let him know what they 
wanted him to do. 
A standard valuation had been done. It was explained that more in-depth surveys could 
be done. However, as Mr S and Mrs S were buying a new build, where guarantees 
would normally be provided, it would be normal for just a valuation to be done.
Mr S and SB had a telephone conversation the following week. Mr S raised concerns about 
changing the offer due to the potential for delays and additional fees. He was reassured that 
it would only be a matter of days for something so simple and it could be done. 
On 18 March 2021 the mortgage completed, and MAB emailed Mr S to congratulate him and 
Mrs S. It asked him to pay the £250 fee owed. 
Mr S emailed SB and explained that he hadnt wanted to pursue a new offer as it had 
already, at the point that was suggested, gone past the 28 days in which the purchase was 
meant to be completed. He also commented that there was no way of controlling Bs 
processing times and it would involve rework by his solicitors. Mr S again highlighted the 
mistakes in the recommendation report and explained that this made him think that he didnt 
receive good service and he asked for justification of the handling of his case. This was 
followed up with a complaint. 
MAB attempted to mediate the complaint, but when that failed, it issued a formal response. It 
said that there was no evidence that MAB hadnt kept in contact with Mr S throughout the 
process and ensured the mortgage progressed as quickly as possible. Once the application 
was made, the process was handed to an administrator, with the adviser only being involved 
when necessary. So there was no issue with the administrator being their main point of 
contact. It also said that it considered the mortgage recommendation met Mr S and Mrs S 
needs and preferences.  While hed enquired about reducing the term to 20 years, MAB 
highlighted that this hadnt been until after the mortgage application had been submitted. 
While MAB had said that it could arrange for the mortgage offer to be reissued with any 
changes they wanted, Mr S and Mrs S declined to do so. MAB said that given the length of 
time between the offer being made and completion, there was, in its opinion, enough time for 
any changes to have been made. It also said that it considered the mortgage offer had been 
issued within a reasonable period of time. While MAB didnt think that it had done anything 
wrong, it offered as a gesture of good will to refund the £250 broker fee. 
Mr S and Mrs S werent satisfied with MABs response and referred their complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it 
be upheld. Mr S and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They asked whether it was 
standard for there to be an in-house mortgage advisor in situations like his. They said that 
was the starting point for the problems they had experienced and were still going through. 
They believed that if they had been allowed to select their own adviser, the situation could 
have been completely avoided. Mr S and Mrs S highlighted the time it had taken to get a 
response to the question about the term of the mortgage. They also questioned how it could 
be considered reasonable for MAB to cover up its negligence and errors by using the 
overpayment option, which to their mind, was to be used for a borrowers benefit.  Mr S and 
Mrs S commented on the matter of the survey and highlighted that the suitability report 
wasnt discussed with them, which they didnt think was reasonable.
In addition, Mr S and Mrs S said that as their sale was over, they had no option other than to 
fix the issues themselves, which was unfortunate. They said that they could have accepted 
the £250 offer, but they brought the case to us in order to demonstrate:
how a developer was using an in-house mortgage service when it should be the 
customers choice;
how that adviser treated customers and the outcome of its negligence;
that this level of service shouldnt be allowed to become the standard operating 
procedure at MAB and, thereby, avoid other customers having to suffer as they had; and
that MAB should provide proportionate compensation for forcing them to use its service, 
not treating them with equality, its negligence/shortfalls in service and the consequences 
of those things. 
The investigator considered what Mr S and Mrs S had to say, but he didnt change his 
conclusions. However, he did point out to them that we couldnt comment on the business 
practices of the developer or the property agent in requiring them to use a particular 
mortgage broker. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to 
an ombudsman for review.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 July 2022, in which I set out my conclusions and reasons 
for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I would firstly comment on Mr S and Mrs S concerns about the estate/property agent and 
developer requiring them to arrange their mortgage through MAB. Mr S is correct in his 
statement that there is an ombudsman that covers the activities of estate agents that are a 
member of the scheme and there are professional bodies. However, those schemes are 
separate from this service and we have no jurisdiction over either the estate/property agent 
or the developer. As such, if either of those parties insisted that Mr S and Mrs S use MAB to 
arrange their mortgage, I cant comment on whether that was acceptable practice. 
It is very clear from the information I have that Mr S and Mrs S didnt receive the service they 
could reasonably have expected when it came to their questions being answered, and MAB 
has acknowledged this is the case. Where an error is made by a financial business, I need to 
consider what position a consumer would have been in, had the error not occurred. In this 
case Mr S and Mrs S should have been assured that the mortgage could be repaid before 
the end of the term if they wanted to do so, but that there was the possibility that an ERC 
might apply if they did so. I dont consider that them having the answer to that question 
would have made any difference to their application, as it was discussing a hypothetical 
situation at an undefined point in the future that might never happen.
In relation to the questions about changing the amount of borrowing before completion and 
whether a shorter term would be agreed, the answer would have been that both might have been possible, but as they were decisions by the lender, a definitive answer would only be 
possible if Mr S and Mrs S changed their application. Depending on when in the process 
such a request happened, such requests could have resulted in further credit searches 
which Mr S and Mrs S had confirmed they didnt want to happen. However, MAB could have 
provided information about the costs of a shorter term, as it did. This produced figures that 
showed that a shorter term would have significantly exceeded Mr S and Mrs S planned 
budget for the mortgage. Given this, I am not persuaded that if the information had been 
given earlier, Mr S and Mrs S would have made a different decision and asked for the term 
to be reduced. As such, I am satisfied they wouldnt be in a different position from the one 
they are currently in. 
That said, Mr S at least clearly found the process stressful, which was added to by the 
communication failings, and I think some compensation for that would be appropriate. 
However, when deciding the amount of compensation, I must take into account that buying a 
house comes with some stress by its very nature. In addition, much of the stress appears to 
have come from the commitment to a short timescale for the purchase to complete  
28 days. This would be considered a short timescale at the best of times, as mortgages tend 
to take longer than that to reach offer stage. In addition, there was the long Christmas 
weekend in the middle of the proposed 28 days and lenders were busier than normal 
because of the stamp duty holiday. I cant hold MAB responsible for these issues and, 
having thought about it carefully, I think the £250 MAB has offered in the form of a refund of 
the broker fee is sufficient to compensate Mr S and Mrs S for the poor service it provided. 
I now turn to the matter of the product fee being added to the mortgage. The fact find 
confirmed that Mr S and Mrs S wanted this to happen. By the time the application was 
submitted, it was detailed that the fee was not to be added to the mortgage. However, the 
product fee was then added. I cant see why this change happened, be that a mistake on the 
part of MAB or if Mr S or Mrs S asked for the change. 
If the change was because MAB mistakenly amended the application, I would need to 
consider how Mr S and Mrs S would most appropriately be put back in the correct position. 
That would be for them to have paid out the product fee in advance of the mortgage 
completing and having a lower mortgage balance. Mr S and Mrs S could have been placed 
in this position by paying the £999 off their mortgage as soon as it was advanced. They 
chose not to do this when it was suggested. Mr S has said that it wasnt reasonable for MAB 
to expect them to use some of their overpayment allowance for the first year to cover MABs 
mistake. I can understand this sentiment and had Mr S and Mrs S used their full 
overpayment allowance, I would say that MAB should pay any early repayment charge 
applied to the payment of the fee. However, Mr S and Mrs S had told MAB that they didnt 
intend to make overpayments, either as lump sums or regular payments, so it doesnt seem 
inappropriate for the overpayment allowance to be partially used to rectify the issue. 
Mr S and Mrs S didnt reduce the mortgage by the product fee and so will have paid interest 
on the £999. If that sum remains on the mortgage going forward, they will be charged further 
interest on it. However, they could have taken a very simple action to prevent that loss 
occurring. As it was their choice not to do so, and thereby incur the interest, I wont require 
MAB to reimburse this cost.
The final point of complaint that I need to consider is the issue of the survey. When a 
property is bought using a mortgage, the lender will require a standard valuation to be done. 
This is for the lenders use to establish whether the property is suitable security for the 
money being borrowed. There are then two additional levels of assessment of a property 
that can be arranged. For clarity, in most cases these surveys are arranged by the lender, 
with a surveyor completing the survey requested by the prospective borrowers and a standard valuation for the lender at the same time. As such, it is confirmed on the mortgage 
application form what is required by the applicants. 
Mr S and Mrs S have said that the options for different types of survey werent discussed 
with them. The documentation from the point of sale contradicts this and says that the 
options were discussed. I would also confirm that such a discussion is a normal part of the 
mortgage process. 
In order to uphold a complaint, I must be persuaded that a financial business made a 
mistake. In this case that would be that MAB didnt complete a normal part of a mortgage 
process, despite having documented that it had. It is possible, but I cant say that for certain. 
However, as I have explained above, even if MAB did make that mistake, I have to consider 
what the likely outcome of such a discussion would have been. When doing so, I cant apply 
hindsight. I say this as, it is clear from Mr S and Mrs S submissions that they have 
discovered problems with their house that they believe would have been picked up on by 
either a homebuyers or structural survey. When assessing this matter, I have look at it from 
the position of what Mr S and Mrs S would have been expecting from their brand-new home 
in December 2020.
Both of the surveys that could be completed are designed to confirm the condition of a 
property. In the case of a homebuyers survey, this will involve a full inspection of the interior 
and exterior (subject to access) and describe the construction and condition of the building, 
services, grounds and any significant outbuildings. This includes detailing any defects 
present and general advice about resolving any issues. It also highlights any areas that the 
buyers legal advisers should investigate further, such as guarantees for works, rights or way 
and planning issues. A structural survey covers the same things a homebuyers survey does, 
but its more comprehensive. It provides additional advice about the cause and remedy of 
defects and the potential consequences of not remedying the problems. Both of these 
surveys involve a fee being paid that is higher than that for a standard valuation.
In general, most buyers will opt for only a standard valuation to be done. This is especially 
so with new build properties, as the more in-depth surveys are used to identify if there are 
problems with a property. Problems wouldnt generally be expected in a new build, as it will 
have been built to modern standards. In addition, given the newness of the build, it is likely 
that any issues that may arise wont have had time to manifested themselves. Furthermore, 
even if there are problems, most new build properties come with warranties that cover any 
significant issues. In the circumstances I think it likely that if a discussion about surveys had 
been held at the time, it would not have resulted in anything other than a standard valuation 
being done. 
Mr S and Mrs S agreed with my comments about the level of service they received, and the 
poor communications and mistakes having made the process of buying their house more 
stressful. They reiterated that the documentation from the time of the sale didnt reflect the 
discussions that took place. They added a new error to those previously documented  that 
they had always been willing to make overpayments and that the ability to do so was 
something they required from the mortgage. Mr S and Mrs S evidenced that they had made 
overpayments to the mortgage in 2021. They also said theyd repaid their previous mortgage 
early in 2019, although the evidence didnt show when the mortgage had started. They said 
that they hoped this would satisfy me that had MAB answered their questions in 
December 2020 when initially asked, they would have taken a shorter term on the mortgage.
In addition, Mr S and Mrs S reiterated their comments about the payment of the product fee 
and the lack of explanation about the survey options available to them. In comparison, they 
said that MAB had been diligent in pursuing the broker fee being paid after the mortgage 
completed. They said if it had been as diligent in its handling of the mortgage application and their questions, they believe the whole transaction would have been pleasant and 
stress-free.  Mr S and Mrs S repeated that they believed MAB had been negligent in its 
handling of their application and asked that I award appropriate compensation in addition to 
the broker fee refund.
MAB confirmed that it had received my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, I havent changed my conclusions in relation to this complaint. 
While Mr S and Mrs S have said that they hope that I will accept that they would have taken 
a shorter term on the mortgage, had their questions been answered earlier, I am not 
persuaded that is the case. As I highlighted in my provisional decision, the shorter term 
significantly exceeded the monthly budget theyd set for themselves. If they did have a 
history of making over-payments, then I think it more likely they would have taken that 
option, rather than committing to monthly costs that they werent comfortable with.  
As for Mr S and Mrs S comments that they think if MAB had answered their questions 
earlier, the application process would have been pleasant and stress-free, I cant agree. In 
this case Mr S and Mrs S had committed to complete their purchase in less time than it 
usually takes a lender to make an offer, and those four weeks included the Christmas period. 
In addition, the stamp duty holiday meant that all lenders were busier than usual at the time, 
which would again add to the timescales. Buying a property has stresses associated with it 
even if there are no problems, but adding what can only be considered an unrealistic 
timescale to the process was guaranteed to increase those stresses. Indeed, it is clear from 
Mr S comments during the process about the timescale that was the case. I cant find that 
most of the worry Mr S and Mrs S suffered was MABs fault, but it did add to it. That said, I 
remain satisfied that the refund of the £250 broker fee is sufficient to compensate Mr S and 
Mrs S for MABs contribution to the situation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 24 August 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman