DRN-3517084
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain about how DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limit dealt 
with claims they made for assistance under a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in
detail here. Ive listed what I believe are the most relevant points below.
DAS was aware Mr R and Mrs R spoke limited English as they were being 
represented by family members in correspondence with DAS.
As no firm on DAS panel of solicitors could assist Mr R and Mrs R effectively, DAS 
agreed a local solicitors firm could represent Mr R and Mrs R.
In order to determine policy cover DAS requested a case management report (CMR) 
from the solicitors for Mr R and Mrs Rs claims respectively. The CMRs identified 
each case had prospects but importantly, they also explained the disputes were not 
at a stage where the policy would provide cover.
DAS incorrectly at that point, in each case, provided terms to the solicitors and 
appointed them under the policy. And crucially, told Mr R and Mrs R that their costs 
would now be covered by the policy.
On realising its mistake some months later DAS informed Mr R and Mrs R of the 
correct position and that the costs they had incurred with the solicitor would no longer 
be covered. It said that as it had previously explained this position to a family 
member, Mr R and Mrs R would have been aware of the correctly policy position.
DAS has also on two occasions tried to combine Mr R and Mrs Rs claims under one 
limit of indemnity. On each occasion it has realised its mistake and separated them 
but not until much correspondence had passed between the parties.

My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 187 May 2022. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
While I am aware Mr R and Mrs Rs claims happened at different times, the errors DAS 
made on each case were the same, so for ease I have addressed them both together below 
I intend to uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
DAS should be the expert in the coverage the policy provides.
While strictly applying the policy terms, cover isnt provided by the policy for pre 
proceedings costs. In this case, for Mr R and Mrs Rs claims respectively, given what 
has happened, I dont think this produces a fair and reasonable outcome.
DAS made a mistake in instructing the solicitors for each claim when it did. And while 
usually, mistakes can be accepted. In this instance, I think it is more likely than not, 
this action led to Mr R and Mrs R acting to their detriment and taking advice from the 
solicitors about the next actions to take. Incurring costs in the process.
Mr R and Mrs R have explained they have limited funds and had been using the free 
legal advice line provided by the policy to assist with their cases. So, I think its more 
likely than not they would have acted differently, had they not been formally told all of 
their legal costs would be covered.
While DAS may have informed Mr R and Mrs Rs family member pre-proceedings 
costs would not be covered under the policy, I think this was countered by the letters 
it sent which clearly explained solicitors were being appointed and all costs would 
then be covered. I think Mr R and Mrs R were entitled to rely on these letters as the 
correct position.
DAS has incorrectly told Mr R and Mrs R it will be combining their claims under one 
limit of indemnity, and it has made this mistake twice during the period this complaint 
relates to.
I think it is clear the errors I have set out above would have caused Mr R and Mrs R 
some distress and inconvenience. I think DAS should pay them £200 compensation 
each to reflect this.
Putting things right
To put things right DAS should do the following
- Cover Mr R reasonable legal costs from 4 August 2020 (the start date DAS previously 
agreed to). It will not be able to seek to restrict costs relating to pre proceedings matters.
- Cover Mrs Rs reasonable legal costs from the date the solicitors were instructed, including 
an amount to cover reading in and, costs associated with compiling the case management 
report. It will not be able to seek to restrict costs relating to pre proceedings matters.
- Pay Mr R and Mrs R £200 compensation each.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Both parties responded saying they accepted my provisional findings. However, DAS asked 
for clarification around the costs it should cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it. So, 
for the reasons set out above, I will be upholding this complaint. To clarify in respect of costs incurred by Mr R and Mrs R. To put things right DAS should 
cover any reasonable legal costs they have incurred under the instruction of the non-panel 
solicitor. Due to its error, it should not seek to limit those costs to what the policy may usually 
have covered. In making the instruction, DAS led Mr R and Mrs R to act to their detriment by 
receiving paid for advice in relation to their employment matters.
Putting things right
To put things right DAS should do the following
- Cover Mr R reasonable legal costs from 4 August 2020 (the start date DAS previously 
agreed to). It will not be able to seek to restrict costs relating to pre-proceedings matters.
- Cover Mrs Rs reasonable legal costs from the date the solicitors were instructed, including 
an amount to cover reading in and, costs associated with compiling the case management 
report. It will not be able to seek to restrict costs relating to pre proceedings matters.
- Pay Mr R and Mrs R £200 compensation each.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman