DRN-2299853
The complaint
Mr G says that Motorpoint Limited (Motorpoint) mis-sold him an extended warranty on his 
vehicle. 
What happened
Mr G purchased an extended warranty alongside the purchase of his vehicle in a face to 
face sale. He subsequently had a problem with the fan on his vehicle. When he called the 
administrator of the policy, he was told that he would have to pay to have the fault 
diagnosed, and it would then be decided whether the fault would be covered under the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
Mr G says he was told that if there were any problems with the car, all he had to do was take 
it to a BMW garage, and Motorpoint would cover any repairs. He says if hed known that 
everything wasnt covered, and diagnostic costs had to be paid he would never have bought 
the policy. He paid to have the fan repaired privately and he complained to Motorpoint 
stating that the policy had been mis-sold.
Motorpoint investigated the complaint and said the policy hadnt been mis-sold. It said that 
during the sale a demands and needs assessment was carried out, and the policy was 
deemed suitable for Mr Gs needs. It says the terms and conditions were emailed to Mr G 
and he had 30 days to review the documentation. Motorpoint say that the terms and 
conditions state that diagnostic costs are not covered until the claim is validated, and that Mr 
G couldve cancelled the policy within the 30 days from point of sale if he was dissatisfied 
with these terms.
Mr G submitted a complaint to this service. An investigator reviewed the complaint said that 
based on the evidence available Motorpoint hadnt done anything wrong.
However, Mr G doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The documentation provided would indicate that this was an advised sale. That means 
Motorpoint needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. As well as 
providing Mr G with sufficient information in a way thats clear, fair and not misleading.
As this was a face to face sale and theres no recording, its difficult to know exactly what 
was said between the sales advisor and Mr G. So, Ive considered the documents available 
to me, as well as both Mr G and Motorpoints testimony about what happened.
Motorpoint has provided us with a copy of the sales documentation. Within this 
documentation there is a customer declaration section which I can see Mr G signed to say 
he understood the significant features, benefits and exclusions to the policy. This section 
also confirms that the product is optional. 
I can also see that Mr G was offered a number of other products at the time of sale, and that 
the motor warranty is the only product that was chosen. The document states that the 
consumer chose to purchase the recommended cover. The fact he was offered a number 
of products and only chose one, would indicate he wasnt pressured, the purchase was 
optional and he wanted this extended warranty cover.
I can also see that Mr G was provided with a copy of the schedule of insurance, and the 
policy terms and conditions. And I can see from the policy terms and conditions that it says 
You agree that You will pay the costs of dismantling and repairing the Vehicle if the cause 
of the breakdown is not covered by the Policy
But Mr G says that he was told everything was covered during the sale. He says he didnt 
read the paperwork as he assumed everything he was told was true. He says Motorpoint 
employed a hard sell tactic, and the sales advisor lied to him. He says if you go online there 
are hundreds of consumers with the same type of complaint about Motorpoint. He says if 
hed known there were limitations on the policy, he would never have bought it.
In terms of the claim itself, we will never know whether it was or wasnt covered. Mr G didnt 
have a diagnostic carried out, as he just went ahead and had it repaired privately. But just 
because he discontinued the claim, that doesnt mean it wouldnt have been covered. Nor 
does it mean that the policy wasnt suitable, or that it was mis-sold to him.
I acknowledge Mr Gs arguments, and I appreciate with hindsight that Mr G might not have 
bought this policy as he has said. But we will never know what happened during the sale as 
it was face to face, and theres no recording. Mr G says he was put under pressure, and hes 
admitted that he did sign the documents without fully reading them. But as the purchaser its 
still his responsibility to read the documentation, even after the sale. If he felt he was being 
pressured, or if he was unsure of the cover, there is a 30-day cooling off period in the terms 
and conditions. This period allows a consumer to cancel and claim a refund if he/she isnt 
satisfied with the terms and conditions. As Mr G didnt do this, I can only assume he was 
satisfied with the product, even if he says that is not now the case.
So, based on the documentation as the only evidence available, I havent seen anything to 
show that the policy wasnt suitable for him. On balance, Im satisfied that Motorpoint took 
reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice and provided information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. I understand Mr G wont be happy with this, but it follows that I 
dont think Mr Gs policy was mis-sold and Im not going to ask Motorpoint to return the 
premium.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman