DRN-1102332
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Esure Services Limited (Esure) incorrectly arranged his car 
insurance policy with three years No Claims Discount (NCD).
What happened
In June 2019 Mr S bought a car insurance policy with Esure online. Esure sent his policy 
documents online to him and asked him to provide proof of three years NCD.
Mr S said he declared zero NCD and believes Esure caused the error. But Esure said it 
relied on information Mr S submitted online when he applied for the policy. 
Esure gave Mr S the option to either pay the additional premium to reflect his correct NCD  
or he could cancel his policy. Esure agreed to waive its cancellation fee. 
Mr S asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought Esure had acted 
reasonably. 
Mr S said he is positive he declared zero NCD. And Esure hasnt provided proof that he 
declared the incorrect NCD online. So he asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr S is sure he declared zero NCD when he applied for the policy. 
However, his policy documents show that the number of years NCD submitted online was 
three. So this is the information Esure relied on. Although no screenshots have been 
provided of what Mr S declared, I dont think this makes a difference. I think its less likely 
that an error happened elsewhere in changing the NCD information Mr S submitted. And as 
Esure has offered to waive its cancellation fee to allow Mr S to shop around for a policy with 
the correct NCD rather than pay the additional premium, I think it has been fair and 
reasonable to him.
So based on what Ive seen, I dont think Esure needs to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman
