DRN-4492345
The complaint
Mr F complains that an unregulated business called Commercial Land and Property Brokers 
(CL&P) introduced him to Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (Options, which was trading 
as Carey Pensions UK LLP at the time of the relevant events) and gave him advice and 
made arrangements when doing so, despite not having the regulatory authorisation needed 
to do this. Mr F says he was contacted by CL&P and, following its advice to transfer away 
from his existing pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and invest in Store 
First, switched his pension arrangements to a SIPP with Options, and made a Store First 
investment. As a result, he says he has suffered the total loss of his pension provision.
A Claims Management Company (CMC) has brought Mr Fs complaint on his behalf. 
What happened
The relevant parties
Options
Options is a SIPP provider and administrator. At the time of the events in this complaint, 
Options was regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later became the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  I will refer to both bodies as the regulator. Options 
was authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring about) deals in investments, to deal in 
investments as principal, to establish, operate or wind-up a pension scheme, and to make 
arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
CL&P
CL&P was an unregulated business based in Spain. At the time of the events here, one of 
the directors of CL&P was a Terence Wright.
On 15 October 2010, the following was published on the FSA, website, in a section called: 
Firms and individuals to avoid, which was described: as a warning list of some 
unauthorised firms and individuals that we believe you should not deal with:
ALERT
The Financial Services Authority (FSA) has today published this statement in order to warn 
investors against dealing with unauthorised firms.
The purpose of this statement is to advise members of the public that an individual 
Terence (Terry) Wright 
is not authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry on a 
regulated activity in the UK. Regulated activities include, amongst other things, advising 
on investments. The FSA believes that the individual may be targeting UK customers via 
the firm Cash In Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service and the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme are not available if you deal with an unauthorised 
company or individual.
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to our Register of authorised 
firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
CL&P and Options
Options has told us that it was first approached by CL&P in 2011 and it entered into 
discussions about accepting introductions from it. Options began to accept introductions 
from CL&P on 15 August 2011 and ended its relationship with it on 25 May 2012.
Options says it carried out some due diligence on CL&P. It says it reviewed CL&P's profile, 
conducted searches, reviewed CL&Ps website and literature and had conversations with 
CL&Ps representatives over the telephone.
I have set out below a summary, of what I consider to be the key events and/or actions 
during the relationship between Options and CL&P, which I have taken from the available 
evidence (this includes evidence from Mr Fs case file and generic submissions Options has 
made to us on other case files about its due diligence on, and its relationship with, CL&P).
I have not seen any evidence to show Options carried out any due diligence on CL&P before 
it began accepting introductions from it. Rather, as I set out below, it began to accept 
introductions then carried out its due diligence whilst accepting business from CL&P.
Summary
15 August 2011 - Options begins to accept introductions from CL&P.
20 September 2011 - Options conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which 
allows subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on a Zoe 
Adams and a Mark Lloyd. Ms Adams and Mr Lloyd were two of the people at CL&P Options 
initially had contact with. This check did not reveal any issues.
27 September 2011 - Options asked CL&P to complete a non-regulated introducer profile. 
The form itself explains its purpose as follows; As an FSA regulated pensions company we 
are required to carry out due diligence as best practice on unregulated introducer firms 
looking to introduce clients to us to gain some insight into the business they carry out. 
Furthermore, when making this request, by email, Options Chief Executive, Christine Hallett, 
explained we require for our compliance process to perform due diligence on companys 
(sic) who we enter into a business and professional relationship with.
29 September 2011 - The non-regulated introducer profile was completed by CL&P. It was 
completed and signed by Terence Wright, and confirmed the following:
CL&P was a Spanish firm and was trading from a Spanish address.
It used an 0845 telephone number.
It had been trading for two years and had two directors  Terence Wright and Lesley 
Wright.
It had eight agents, and promoted four investments  Store First, and three other 
unregulated investments.
It worked with four other SIPP operators.Its source of business was referrals and web enquiries.
Its sales process involved a call and follow up emails.
It took 2-5% commission, and this was the source of its earnings.
Its staff had been given training and it had worked with various compliance officers.
The document makes no mention of Ms Adams or Mr Lloyd. After completing the document 
Mr Wright was asked to make the following declaration:
I declare the above is a true and accurate reflection of [name of individual or Firm] and that 
Options Pensions UK LLP can rely on this information.
I/we fully indemnify Options Pensions UK LLP against any costs incurred as a result of any 
inaccuracies within this form.
I/we also acknowledge and accept that Options Pensions UK will undertake any enquiries 
about the firm and its Directors/Partners it feels appropriate.
9 December 2011- Options had a conference call with representatives of CL&P. During that 
call the issue was raised of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P to transfer or 
switch to a SIPP and make investments. The note of the call included the following:
[Options staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member had asked when they 
would receive their money from their Store First Investment, [CL&P representatives] 
confirmed that no clients or connected parties referred by CL&P receive any form of 
inducement for either establishing the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that 
CL&P policy does not include offering inducements.
[Options staff member] emphasised that it is completely against all rules that clients or 
connected parties receive any form of inducement for making particular investments.
13 March 2012 - Options Head of Service and Operation said in an email to CL&P: On 
another matter, we need our Terms of Business for Non Regulated introducers in place 
between our two companies. So that our records are all straight from a Compliance aspect I 
attach the Terms of Business and have entered a commencement date of 15 August 2011 
which is the date of your first case with us and would be grateful if you could agree and 
complete the terms and return. The agreement was signed by CL&P on 20 March 2012. It 
was signed by Ms Adams.
23 March 2012 - Options compliance support said in an email to CL&P:
To comply with our in house compliance procedures could you please supply the following 
information relating to CLP Brokers:
A copy of the latest set of accounts
A certified copy passport for each of the main directors/principals/partners of the company
29 March 2012 - a Team Leader at Options sent Ms Hallett an email with the subject  03- 
29-2012 - Storefirst Investment Query re Cash Back [reference removed]. That email 
forwarded an email sent by the Team Leader to a consumer, which included the following:
you mentioned in our conversation a cash back amount you are expecting in the sum of 
£1,800 from CL&P following completion of the Storefirst investmentAnd the text addressed to Ms Hallett by the Team Leader said: this is the second member 
this week to ask when are they getting their money.
3 April 2012 - Options compliance support followed up on its 23 March 2012 email: It is 
now becoming urgent that we receive the outstanding documentation. You very kindly 
passed this on to your colleague and I would be very grateful if we could receive the 
documentation as a matter of urgency. Thank you in anticipation of your assistance. When 
asked, Options said it had no record of receiving the information from CL&P.
15 May 2012 - Options conducted a World Check on Terence Wright. The report included 
the following:
THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS REPORTED IN ONE OR MORE OF THE 
SOURCES BELOW
[FINANCIAL SERVICES WARNING]
Appears on the UK Financial Services Authority. [REPORTS]
Appears on the FSA list of unauthorised firms and individuals,
INFORMATION SOURCES;
http://www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/Doing/Regulated/Law/Alerts/unauthorised.shtmI - ARCHIVE 
http://www.fsa.gov.uk/Pages/Doing/Regulated/Law/Alerts/lndex.shtml - ARCHIVE
Entered: 2011/10/24
25 May 2012 - Options terminated its agreement with CL&P. Options Head of Service and 
Operation told CL&P of Options decision in an email to CL&P of that date:
Despite your assurances that no clients have been or will be offered inducements (monetary 
or otherwise) for making investments through their SIPPs with us, we have received 
enquiries as to when a client can expect to receive their money and have today been 
informed by a new client that they are expecting circa £2,000 on completion of the Storefirst 
investment purchase, which they confirmed was offered by a member of your staff.
We have advised this client that we will not proceed with this case.
In light of this, it is with regret that I have to notify you that we are terminating our Introducer 
Agreement with you, with immediate effect, and can no longer accept business from you. 
Store First
The Store First investment took the form of one or more self-storage units, which were part 
of a larger storage facility in a UK location. Investors bought one or more units in the facility 
and were offered a guaranteed level of income for a set period of time. After that, they could 
either take whatever income the unit(s) provided or sell them (assuming there was a market 
for them).
The Store First investment was marketed as offering a guaranteed 8% return in the first two 
years, an indicated return of 10% in the following two years, and 12% in the next two years. 
It was also marketed as offering a guaranteed buy back after five years. But little of this 
materialised. It seems most investors received one or two years income of 8%, but nothing beyond that. And investors have found it very difficult to sell, with those that have sold 
receiving a small fraction of the amount they paid for their pods.
In the judgment in Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP (formerly Options Pensions UK LLP) 
[2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) (Adams v Options), the judge found the value of Mr Adams pods, 
acquired for around £52,000 in July 2012, to be £15,000 as of January 2017. I have also 
seen several results of auctions of the pods, where the sale price has been much lower than 
the price at which the pods were purchased.
In May 2014, the Self Storage Association of the UK (SSA UK) issued a press release 
(amended in January 2015), detailing the outcome of a review it had commissioned Deloitte 
LLP to undertake of the marketing material made available to potential investors by Store First.
The release recommended that any potential investors in Store First storage units consider 
the following key points before taking any investment decision:
What will the impact be on the business model if VAT is charged on the rental of 
storage units to customers following a review by HMRC?
How is Store First funding guaranteed returns to investors? Is this from operating 
profits, the proceeds from the sale of other storage pods to investors, or a different 
source?
Compare the total value being paid for all the units in a Store First self storage site 
against the price at which stand-alone self-storage businesses have been valued and 
sold at recently.
Consider if there is a realistic re-sale opportunity for, and exit, from this investment, 
particularly if Store First exits the business.
Research the performance of investments based on a similar investment model that 
have been offered primarily in Australia, such as Ikin Self Storage in Townsville, 
Queensland and Strata Self Storage in Melbourne (these schemes had failed)
The release refers to a number of misleading and inaccurate statements made by Store First 
in its marketing material. It also makes the following observations:
SSA UKs investigations indicate that these storage units are being rented to the general 
public at approximately £18 - £21 per square foot including insurance. Normally the rent paid 
by a self-storage operator would be at most half of the income per square foot earned 
through storage fees. Presuming the Store First sites were at industry average occupancy 
levels, SSA UK believe that they would have to be earning £23.95 per square foot just to pay 
the guaranteed rent to investors, excluding operating costs such as insurance, staff, 
business rates, utilities, marketing and management fees for Store First.
Store First is obliged to pay the guaranteed returns to investors, yet there does not appear to 
be sufficient income from the operations of the business to fund these returns.
The analysis SSA UK has seen indicates that the purchase price being paid per square foot 
by investors to Store First for these self-storage units taken together equates to a much 
higher value than they would be worth if the whole sites were sold as stand-alone self- 
storage stores.
a very serious question arises over how Store First is funding the guaranteed returns to 
existing investors, considering the absence of bank funding and the likely level of losses that 
require funding in each new store. It may yet prove to be the case that the rental returns 
being paid to investors are in fact being funded from the sale proceeds of new units, and not 
the operation of the self-storage business.On 30 April 2019 the Courts made an order shutting down Store First and three of the 
related companies by consent between those four companies and the Secretary of State. 
The Official Receiver was appointed as liquidator. At the time, the Chief Investigator for the 
Insolvency Service said:
These four companies unscrupulously secured millions of pounds worth of investments 
using a variety of methods that misled investors, particularly those with pension savings.
The court rightly recognised the sheer scale of the problem caused by Store Firsts sales of a 
flawed business model, based on misrepresentation and misleading information and has shut 
down these companies in recognition of the damage done to investors retirement plans.
Summary
3 May 2011  Options is contacted by a promoter of Store First, Harley Scott, about a newly 
launched product  Store First. Options says the investment will be put through its review 
process. In its submissions to us Options says this review process was established in 
accordance with its obligations and FSA recommendations at the time, which required it to 
conduct: due diligence into the Store First investment to assess its suitability for holding 
within a SIPP.
9 June 2011  Options says it will accept the investment in its SIPP, having considered:
the brochure
the agreement for Grant of Sublease
the sublease
Companies House searches
a Compliance review (referring to an Enhanced Support Solutions report)
Options has provided us with copies of these documents.
In the letter confirming its acceptance of the investment, Options noted:
The investor purchases a 250 year lease of a storage unit within a storage facility. The 
unit is then sublet to the management company, Store First, subject to an initial six year 
term with two year break clauses.
The investor's interest can be sold/assigned at any time. The break clauses allow the 
investor to rent out the units individually without the services of the management 
company (but it insisted they use the management company).
There was no apparent established market for the investment.
The investment was potentially illiquid in that it was a direct property investment which 
may take time to sell. However, it could be sold providing a willing buyer can be found 
and was assignable so could be transferred in specie to beneficiaries.
It also said its acceptance was subject to a member declaration and indemnity being 
completed and signed by each member, and the appointment of a solicitor to act for the 
Trustees in respect of any purchase.
Mr Fs dealings with CL&P and Options
In a letter received by Options on 12 March 2012, Mr F gave it permission to liaise directly 
with CL&P.Mr Fs Options SIPP application form contained, amongst other things, the following key 
information:
He was unemployed.
His selected retirement date was at age 60 and this would be in January 2021.
He had a personal pension plan valued at around £35,000. 
Options noted that: Please Note, whilst we cannot give advice, we recommend that 
in these circumstances you seek appropriate advice and please provide us with a 
copy of the TVAs report.
Options also said in the application form that: 
As you do not have a Financial Adviser, your investment choices are your 
sole responsibility. You will instruct us and we will act on those instructions 
as long as it is an accepted investment in the Carey Pension Scheme.
Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd will not at 
any time review any aspects of your appointed Investment Manager's 
financial status or investment and risk strategies nor have any 
Involvement in your investment choices and selection, nor give advice on 
the suitability of your investment choices. We would always recommend 
Independent advice be obtained from a suitably qualified adviser.
Under Type of Investment Authorisation the application said: EXECUTION ONLY 
Investment Manager trades on your instructions only 
In this section (Investments), Mr F said he wanted to use his funds to invest in Store 
First. The amount he wanted to invest was stated to be £32,000. 
Under Cancellation Rights, Mr F ticked the box which said that he wished to waive 
his right to cancel the SIPP within the 30 days of establishment.
Under the Declaration section of the application, amongst other things, it said;
I understand that it is my sole responsibility to make decisions relating to 
the purchase, retention or sale of any investments held within the Carey 
Pension Scheme;
I agree to indemnify Carey Pensions UK LLP 'The Administrator' and 
Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd against any claim in respect of any 
decision made by myself and/or my Financial Adviser/ Investment 
Manager or any other professional adviser I choose to appoint from time 
to time;
I understand that I am not permitted to be paid from the Scheme funds 
until my retirement or until such time of my death, or in the case of a 
serious health claim;
I understand that Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees 
UK Ltd are not in anyway able to provide me with any advice;
I confirm that I am establishing the Carey Pension Scheme on an 
Execution only basis:
I confirm I understand that the value of my pension scheme can go down 
as well as up depending on the investment performance of the 
investments chosen.
On 13 March 2012, Mr F wrote to his personal pension provider giving it authority to transfer 
the capital within his pension scheme to Options with immediate effect. However, on 8 May 
2012, Options emailed Mr F to say that as discussed in his welcome letter, which was sent 
to him on 13 March 2012, Options would be unable to establish his SIPP until it had received 
the completed declaration page, which was included in the application form. Options also noted that further to this, Mr F had not returned the Transfer Authority letter addressed to his 
personal pension provider which was also included in his welcome pack. Options requested 
that Mr F sign and return this to it so the transfer could proceed.
On 12 June 2012, Options wrote to Mr F stating the following: 
Further to correspondence sent to you on 8th May 2012 we are unable to fully establish your 
SIPP until we receive the completed declaration page included in the application form that 
you completed. Therefore in order for us to proceed please read, sign and date the page 
which was returned to you with the welcome pack and post it to us at the below address. I 
attach a blank copy of the page for your convenience in the event that you no longer have 
the original.
Once we receive this we will fully establish your SIPP on our system and be able to 
proceed.
So, whilst Mr Fs Options SIPP application had been received in March 2012, Options would 
not proceed any further until the declaration in the application form had been fully completed 
and Mr F had finalised the matters it had pointed out to him.
On 21 June 2012, Mr F was sent a further email from Options confirming that his personal 
pension transfer had been received into his SIPP scheme account. The amount that was 
transferred was £40,609.53. Options noted that after deducting fees and on receipt of all 
relevant documents, the money that Mr F had instructed Options to invest (£32,000) would 
be used to purchase the Store First investment  this was done on 19 July 2012.
Options further noted in the same email that: 
Whilst writing, we feel it prudent to outline the position regarding being paid/offered 
incentives for transferring your pension scheme and making such an investment.
HMRC have clarified that where cash rebate arrangements are entered into, in relation to 
SIPP investments, (being paid an incentive for the SIPP investment) there is a potential tax 
charge arising on the basis that were it not for the SIPP investment, the cash rebate would 
not arise. In such cases anyone receiving such an incentive needs to take specialist tax 
advice to assess the likelihood of a tax charge arising and account for any such payment on 
their personal tax return.
[Options] will not knowingly establish SIPPs where such incentives are being offered / paid. 
Mr F has confirmed to the Financial Ombudsman that whilst he was offered £1,000 to 
transfer by CL&P by way of cash back he never received this payment. He also said if hed 
known of the alert about Mr Wright he would not have gone ahead with the transfer. Mr F 
confirmed that he didnt fully sign the Options application until June 2012. And if at that point, 
he had been made aware that the relationship between CL&P and Options had ceased 
which was on 25 May 2012, he probably wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer or the 
Store First investments.
Mr F said that he had no real understanding of how the Store First investment worked. He 
said he was told by CL&P that it was pretty much guaranteed to give good returns. And he 
says that it never really crossed his mind about transferring his pension before he was 
approached by the introducer (CL&P) with the promise of guaranteed high returns which 
enticed him to transfer his pension savings. 
Mr Fs complaintAs noted above, Mr F complained to Options about the transfer of his pension and the 
purchase in the Store First investment. He did this via a CMC on 5 October 2020.
On 20 October 2020, Options rejected Mr Fs complaint on the basis that it had been 
referred to it too late. Amongst other things it said:
It noted that Mr Fs SIPP application was received on 12 March 2012 and the SIPP 
was established on the same day. But as noted above, this was not the case as Mr F 
had not fully completed the declaration on the SIPP application so Options rejected 
his application and his SIPP was not fully set up until June 2012. The letter noted that 
the transfer from Mr Fs personal pension was received on 18 June 2012. And his 
Store First investment was made on 19 July 2012.
Options said Mr F received an annual valuation on 15 March 2015 showing that his 
investment was valued at 50% less than the original value. It said this should have 
given him cause for concern and would have given him the opportunity to complain at 
that point. 
Options noted that in around mid-2020, Mr Fs CMC asked for a copy of Mr Fs full 
file which it provided to the CMC in August 2020. And the first notice it received of 
Mr Fs complaint about Options due diligence was on 5 October 2020.
Options said that it believed Mr Fs complaint was time barred as the SIPP was 
established and the transfers received, and investments were placed over six years 
before Mr Fs complaint was made. And Mr F had had notice of a substantial loss to 
his Storefirst investment in 2015, so Options considered he had three years from this 
point to complain. 
Options said these time limits are set down by the regulators Dispute Resolution 
rules (DISP) and as Mr F hadnt met the timescales that were required under these 
rules, his complaint had been made out of time.
The investigators view
Our investigator considered that Mr Fs complaint had been brought within the relevant time 
limits. Given he considered the Financial Ombudsman had the power to look at the 
complaint, he went on to consider its merits. And having done so, he concluded that Options 
had not carried out sufficient due diligence on the introducer and/or the Store First 
investment. As a result, in the investigators view, Options should not have let the pension 
transfer and/or investment to go ahead in the first place and this would have prevented 
Mr Fs losses. Our investigator went on to set out how Options should put matters right 
including asking it to pay Mr F £500 for the trouble and upset it had caused him.
Options response to the investigators view
Options did not accept the view. It said, in summary:
Options maintained the matter was outside of the relevant time limits. And even if it 
was within the relevant time limits, the complaint should not be upheld and Options 
explained why.
It is strictly an execution only service and it does not have the relevant permissions 
to assess the suitability of Mr Fs investment choices or his decision to transfer to a 
SIPP. So, it cant be held liable for Mr Fs losses due to the choices he made.
Options says the investigator, has failed to take into account section 228(2) of the 
Financial Services Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP 3.6.4R, or to set out 
whether and (if so) the basis upon which it is appropriate to depart from the relevant 
law. The investigator has failed to set out whether the due diligence duty which he 
has found to exist is one recognised by law, rather than some broader professional standards.
Options do not think that the investigator has approached this complaint in an 
impartial way.
The guidance publications referred to by the investigator issued by the FSA/FCA 
cannot found a claim for compensation in themselves. And none of them, even the 
one that was issued before Mr Fs complaint was set up, do not provide guidance in 
any meaningful sense. Further, many of the measures in the publications are 
directed at advisory firms rather than execution only SIPP operators.
The Court case of Adams (full Court reference below) makes it clear that the 
regulatory publications cannot alter the meaning of, or the scope of the obligations 
imposed by the Principles for Businesses.
Any publication issued after Mr Fs SIPP/investment is irrelevant to the findings of 
this complaint. 
The FCA Enforcement Guides notes that guidance is not binding on those to whom 
the FCAs rules apply.
There has been no breach of due diligence in regard to CL&P or Storefirst.
The regulatory regime does not prohibit firms from dealing with unregulated 
introducers. The case of Adams makes this clear. 
The reality is it is the poor performing investment that has caused Mr F loss and 
Options, as an execution only party to the transaction, is not responsible for that.
The effect of the investigators view is to force SIPP providers into a position of 
underwriting the performance of investments.
The investigators view concludes that Options should have checked the FSA notice 
(the FSA Notice) published on 15 October 2010 and that, if it had done, it should 
have refused all further customers introduced by CL&P. However the FSA Notice 
wasnt entered onto World Check until 24 October 2011. 
Options does not routinely check the FSAs list of unauthorised firms and individuals. 
Nor was it under an obligation to do so. 
The FSA Notice simply stated that Mr Wright was not regulated by the FSA and 
referred to another business (not CL&P). So there was nothing in the FSA notice 
which described any criminal or civil wrongdoing. 
The Adams cases made it clear that the SIPP operators duties only extended to the 
contractual relationship between the parties. 
The obligations to assess the investments suitability amounts to imposing an 
obligation on Options to undertake qualitative assessment of Store First investment 
and then to pass this information on to Mr F. 
The investigator is effectively saying that Options should have provided advice to 
Mr F which it did not have the authority or permission to do. 
Options did pass on risk warnings to Mr F - Options provided a general risk warning 
which Mr F said hed read which stated: I am fully aware that this investment is an 
Alternative investment and as such is High Risk and/or Speculative.
Options did not cause Mr Fs losses. Its likely if he had not proceeded with Options 
he would have found another SIPP provider to carry out his instructions.
It has not been found that Mr F was cold called by CL&P. It is just as likely that Mr F 
had contacted CL&P so that he could invest in an asset such as Store First.
Not enough questions were asked of Mr F. The view is silent on whether or not Mr F 
was asked about inducement payments. If a payment was received, what did Mr F 
understand this payment was for.
Even if the complaint is upheld, Option should not be held accountable for the full 
extent of any losses suffered given Mr F signed an indemnity and a members 
declaration absolving Options of any claim for losses made by him. 
Any compensation should be based on the basis that if the Store First investments 
cant be removed from the SIPP, Mr F may still benefit from any future returns. So, this should be taken into account when reaching a redress calculation.
The £500 award for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr F hasnt been 
properly justified by the investigator.
Options requested that the Ombudsman holds an Oral Hearing in order to properly 
determine Mr Fs complaint.
The matter has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. I understand that Mr F is suffering from ill 
health. I am sorry to hear about this and I trust this final decision will bring matters to a swift 
conclusion once accepted by him. 
Before I set out my reasoning for upholding the complaint, I would like to say Ive considered 
everything the parties have submitted during the course of this complaint, but Ive limited my 
findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. I'll also mention at this stage 
that where there's a dispute about what happened and/or the evidence is incomplete and/or 
inconclusive, I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Finally, in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules; guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Options request for an oral hearing
I appreciate that given matters have now moved on, Options may no longer wish to have an 
oral hearing. But for completeness, I will address this point as it was made in its submissions 
in response to the investigator. Options say an oral hearing is necessary to explore the 
extent of CL&Ps role, Mr Fs understanding of the investment and the roles played by the 
parties, and Mr Fs motivation for entering into the transaction. 
The Ombudsman Service provides a scheme under which certain disputes may be resolved 
quickly and with minimum formality (section 225 of FSMA). DISP 3.5.5R provides the 
following: If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without 
convening a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite the parties to take 
part in a hearing. A hearing may be held by any means which the Ombudsman considers 
appropriate in the circumstances, including by telephone. No hearing will be held after the 
Ombudsman has determined the complaint.
Given my statutory duty under FSMA to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum 
formality, I am satisfied that it would not normally be necessary for me to hold a hearing in 
most cases (see the Court of Appeals decision in R (Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642).
The key question for me to consider when deciding whether a hearing should be held is 
whether or not: the complaint can be fairly determined without convening a hearing.
We do not operate in the same way as the Courts. Unlike a Court, we have the power to 
carry out our own investigation. And the rules (DISP 3.5.8R) mean I, as the Ombudsman 
determining this complaint, am able to decide the issues on which evidence is required and how that evidence should be presented. I am not restricted to oral cross-examination to 
further explore or test points.
If I decide particular information is required to decide a complaint fairly, in most 
circumstances we are able to request this information from either party to the complaint, or 
even from a third party. In this case, our Investigator sought some further information from 
Mr F, and he referred to what he considered to be the key points in his view. Options has 
had the opportunity to consider, and comment, on that view. And as to the point Options 
made about Mr F receiving an incentive, he has confirmed he has not done so.
I have carefully considered the submissions Options has made. However, I am satisfied that 
I am able to fairly determine this complaint without convening a hearing. In this case, I am 
satisfied I have sufficient information to make a fair and reasonable decision. So, I do not 
consider a hearing is required.
Time-bar 
Again I note matters have moved on but it hasnt consented to us considering the matter and 
as the complaint was made six years after the events being complained of, I will need to 
consider whether the matter is time-barred. In my view it is not. Ill explain why.
Under the relevant section of rule DISP 2.8.2R it says: 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service: 
(1)  
(2) more than: 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; 
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the 
complaint having been received; 
The normal rule does not apply if the respondent regulated firm consents to the complaint 
being considered or if the delay in making the complaint was the result of exceptional 
circumstances. Options does not consent to the complaint being considered. And I cant see 
any exceptional circumstances that apply in this case to explain the reason for the delay in 
bringing the complaint. For ease of reference I will refer to the first part of the time bar rule 
as the six-year rule and the second part as the three-year rule.
The six-year rule 
Mr F first complained to Options on 5 October 2020. This followed a request from his CMC 
for a full case file which it requested in mid-2020. Its unclear what prompted Mr F to 
complain at this time but Options says that in March 2015, he had a statement which 
showed that his investment value had fallen by half. I have not seen a copy of this statement 
but this is consistent with other cases. I also note that First Store was subject to winding-up 
proceedings in 2017. And Mr Fs CMC says he was told in later statements that his First 
Store investment was valued at nil. Again I have not seen these statements but given the 
status of Store First, I think its likely that Mr F has been told in his latest statements that his 
investments are now worthless. So, I think its likely this is the reason Mr F complained when 
he did. Given Mr Fs SIPP was fully set up by June 2012, I think this is the event that triggered the 
six-year rule. So, given Mr F did not complain until the end of 2020, he has made his 
complaint outside of the six-year time limit. I will now consider the three-year time limit rule.
The three-year rule
Mr F complained to Options in October 2020. To recap, the three-year time limit rule says: 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service: more than  three years from the date on which the complainant 
became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint. 
The term complaint is in italics in the rule which means it is a defined term. Complaint is 
defined in the glossary to the FCA rule book as: any oral or written expression of 
dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on behalf of, a person about the provision of, 
or failure to provide, a financial service,  which: (a) alleges that the complainant has 
suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress or material inconvenience; and (b) 
relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with whom that 
respondent has some connection in marketing or providing financial services or products 
which comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Cause for complaint is not a defined term. But reading the relevant components together, 
to trigger the three-year clock, relevant awareness (i.e. actual awareness) or the awareness 
the complainant ought reasonably to have become aware, comprises of three elements: 
1. awareness, broadly, that loss has been or may be suffered; 
2. that this is a result of some act or omission; and 
3. that act or omission was the responsibility of the respondent. 
These requirements are reflected in the definition of complaint in the FCA handbook: 
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on 
behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, which: 
 (b) relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with whom that 
respondent has some connection in marketing or providing financial services or products or 
claims management services, which comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. (My emphasis added).
Further, the complainant must have more than a broad awareness that something isnt right. 
As per the definition of complaint and when read against the rule, a complainants relevant 
awareness must include dissatisfaction about the provision of or failure to provide a financial 
service, which relates to an activity of that respondent or any other respondent that has 
some connection in marketing or providing financial services or products or claims 
management services, which comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman. 
For the three-year time to start running, the complainant must also have awareness, or 
ought reasonably to have been aware, that the problem may be attributable to a potential act 
or omission on the part of the respondent firm which in this case is Options. 
The three-year rule  my findings
In this case Options argues that Mr F should have become aware that something had gone 
wrong with his investments in March 2015 when he received his statement from Options. I 
think, on balance, this is a correct assessment. Anyone seeing that their investment had fallen by such a significant amount would have cause to concern. I think this is particularly 
the case here when Mr F had been given the impression by the unregulated introducer, 
CL&P that the investment was guaranteed to return at a much better rate than his previous 
pension plan. But on its own I dont think this was enough to make Mr F aware he had cause 
for complaint about the SIPP operator, Options. 
This is because, as Ive already indicated it was the unregulated introducer, who had made 
the statements about the potential for a better performance of his pension than where he 
previously was. Mr F will also have been aware that it was the unregulated introducer who 
recommended the investments and advised him to open the Options SIPP. It was the 
unregulated introducer who gave Mr F the idea to open the SIPP and also was the party that 
said that the investment was guaranteed to do well or at least, better than his personal 
pension. So, I think when his investment began to fall so dramatically, its more likely than 
not that Mr F would have associated this problem with the unregulated introducer, rather than 
Options who went to some lengths to let Mr F know via his declaration that that it was acting 
on an execution only basis and had not provided any advice on the investment itself. 
Before Mr F complained, I cant see that there was anything that would necessarily mean he 
had relevant awareness of cause for complaint about Options. There was nothing to say at 
that point that it had to carry out due diligence on the introducer and/or the investments that 
it (the unregulated introducer) had advised him on. Further, I dont think Mr F ought to have 
realised that Options as a regulated business might also have been expected to undertake 
due diligence in respect of the SIPP advice he received about opening the SIPP and/or 
purchasing the investments.
There was nothing that I can see that would have indicated to Mr F that due diligence had 
been or should have been made by Options on CL&P. It is implausible that he would not 
have complained to Options if he had known, or even thought, it was also supposed to check 
CL&P to ensure that it was an appropriate business to do business with or that the 
investment it was recommending may not be appropriate to hold in a SIPP wrapper. 
Even if Mr F had, in 2015, carried out some level of research, for example, online (or 
otherwise) appropriate for a lay consumer who had experienced the problem he had 
experience, I think its unlikely he would reasonably have acquired enough understanding of 
the role and obligations of the SIPP provider to think that it was responsible for the problems 
he was now facing. 
In the period up to the time of publicity surrounding the unsuccessful judicial review 
challenge in Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878 (Admin) which was published on 30 October 2018, although there had been 
some build up in the amount of information about SIPP complaints, the industry maintained 
that its obligations were very limited.  But from the judicial review decision it could be seen 
that this was not the only view and that there was also a reasonable body of opinion that 
SIPP providers did have responsibilities that meant they could in some circumstances be 
held responsible for problem investments in SIPPs (notwithstanding comments from 
Berkeley Burke about appeals etc).
So, in my view, if Mr F had carried out some reasonable enquiries in or around the end of 
2018, he ought to have known that he had a complaint about Options and its due diligence 
duties. At that point, as I understand it from the submissions his CMC has made, his 
investment had suffered a dramatic loss to the point whereby in 2020, it was valued at nil. 
But before the Berkeley Burke decision, I dont think there would have been sufficient 
information available to Mr F to make the connection of his losses with the duties that Options would have been under to carry out due diligence on those it accepted business 
from even if he carried out some research into the role of Options as a SIPP operator. 
Mr F did understand he had a loss but as I said, he and any reasonable consumer, would have 
thought that any problem was connected with the acts of the introducer who advised him about 
the investments and the transfer of the SIPP. But as the losses continued particularly once Store 
First was put into liquidation in 2017, if Mr F had carried out some reasonable enquiries at around 
the end of 2018, following the Berkeley Burke judicial decision, I think there would have been 
sufficient information to make him reasonably aware that he had cause to complain about the 
acts or omissions of Options in relation to its due diligence duties in respect of CL&P. 
So, based on what Ive said above, I think the earliest he would have made that connection 
between the losses he made via First Store investment would have been in late 2018 and 
allowing time to notice the change in the landscape following the judicial review decision, 
and work out the implications of this decision, I think the three-year time limit would have 
begun in early 2019 for anyone in Mr Fs position. As Mr F sought advice in August 2020 and 
complained to Options in October 2020, I consider he made his complaint within the three-
year time limit rule. And therefore, given all that Ive said above the Financial Ombudsman 
does have the power to consider this complaint. 
I will now consider the merits of Mr Fs complaint.
Relevant considerations 
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses (the Principles) are of particular relevance to 
my decision. The Principles, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general statement 
of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN1.1.2G). And I 
consider Principle 2, 3 and 6 are particularly relevant to this complaint which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162: The Principles are best 
understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules are added. The 
Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not supplant them and 
cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of them to the 
particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the 
application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to 
augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said: Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach 
of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles 
into account in deciding what would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even 
if no Principles had been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its 
particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is 
fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an Ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
Ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time.
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The Ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL): These passages explain the overarching nature of the 
Principles. As the FCA correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles 
is not merely to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that 
they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties 
such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
Ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman in that complaint, which I 
have described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in Berkeley Burke. So, the 
Principles are a relevant consideration here and I will consider them in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint.
The Adams Court cases
I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in Adams v Options SIPP [2020] 
EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I note the Supreme Court refused Options permission 
to appeal the Court of Appeal judgement. There is an ongoing judicial review but this does 
not affect Mr Fs complaint as his SIPP was set up after May 2012.
Ive considered whether these judgments mean that the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case. And I am of the view they do not. In the High Court case, HHJ 
Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the 
pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. 
One of the main reasons why HHJ Dight found that the judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL was 
not of direct relevance to the case before him was because the specific regulatory provisions 
which the learned judge in Berkeley Burke was asked to consider are not those which have 
formed the basis of the claimants case before me. Likewise, the Principles were not 
considered by the Court of Appeal. So, the judgments say nothing about the application of the 
FCAs Principles to the Ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was 
actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this 
claim and found that Options had complied with the best interests rule on the facts of 
Mr Adams case.
Although Mr Adams appeal of the High Court judgment was partially successful, the Court of 
Appeal rejected the part of Mr Adams appeal that related to HHJ Dights dismissal of the 
COBS claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams 
appeal did not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had 
dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that, in the High Court judgment, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at para 148: In 
my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one has to 
identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the submissions of each of the 
parties that the context has an impact on the ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key 
fact, perhaps composite fact, in the context is the agreement into which the parties entered, 
which defined their roles and functions in the transaction.
The issues in Mr Fs complaint are different from the issues as pleaded in Adams. There are 
also significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and 
from the issues in Mr Fs complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of the 
Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual relationship 
between the parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that 
happened after the contract was entered into. In Mr Fs complaint, I am considering whether 
Options ought to have identified that the introductions from CL&P involved a risk of 
consumer detriment and, if so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting introductions from 
CL&P prior to entering into a contract with Mr F.
On this point I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules; guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding that Options was not obliged  and not 
able  to give advice to Mr F on the suitability of its SIPP or the Store First investment for 
him personally. But I am satisfied Options obligations included deciding whether to accept 
particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business from 
particular businesses. And this is consistent with Options own understanding of its 
obligations at the relevant time. As noted above, the introducer profile completed at the 
outset of Options relationship with CL&P said: As an FSA regulated pensions company we 
are required to carry out due diligence as best practice on unregulated introducer firms 
looking to introduce clients to us to gain some insight into the business they carry out.
S27/28 FSMAThe Court of Appeal overturned the High Court judgment on the basis of the claim pursuant 
to s27 FSMA. s27 FSMA provides that an agreement between an authorised person and 
another party, which is otherwise properly made in the course of the authorised persons 
regulated activity, is unenforceable as against that other party if it is made in consequence 
of something said or done by another person (the third party) in the course of a regulated 
activity carried on by the third party in contravention of the general prohibition. 
s27(2) provides that the other party is entitled to recover:
"(a)any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the agreement; 
and 
"(b)compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of having parted with it. 
s28(3) FSMA provides that:
If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in the circumstances of the case, it may 
allow
(a) the agreement to be enforced; or
(b) money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained.
The General Prohibition is set out in s19 FSMA. It stipulates that:
No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport to do so, 
unless he is 
a)an authorised person; or
b)an exempt person.
In Adams, the Court of Appeal concluded that the unauthorised introducer of the SIPP had 
carried out activities in contravention of the General Prohibition, and so s27 FSMA applied. It 
further concluded that it would not be just and equitable to nonetheless allow the agreement 
to be enforced (or the money retained) under the discretion afforded to it by s28(3) FSMA.
At paragraph 115 of the judgment the Court set out five reasons for reaching this conclusion. 
The first two of these were:
i) A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own decisions, there 
is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers from their own folly. 
That much reduces the force of Mr Greens contentions that Mr Adams caused his own 
losses and misled Carey;
ii) While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated 
sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so onto the 
providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce agreements and being 
required to return money and other property and to pay compensation regardless of whether 
they had had knowledge of third parties contraventions of the general prohibition;
The other three reasons, in summary, were:The volume and nature of business being introduced by the introducer was such as to 
put Options on notice of the danger that the introducer was recommending clients to 
invest in the investments and set up Options SIPPs to that end. There was thus reason 
for Options to be concerned about the possibility of the introducer advising on 
investments within the meaning of article 53 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO).
Options was aware that: contrary to what the introducer had previously said, it was 
taking high commission from the investment provider, there were indications that the 
introducer was offering consumers cash back and one of those running the introducer 
was subject to a FCA warning notice.
The investment did not proceed until after the time by which Options had reasons for 
concern and so it was open to Options to decline the investment, or at least explore the 
position with Mr Adams.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the member to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental 
to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions to 
give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not appear on 
the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) and 
size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and introduce 
clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large transactions 
or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with the intermediary 
that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of 
what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary giving 
advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this information 
would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the facilitation of 
unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes. 
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions to 
give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are on the 
list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and 
that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for unauthorised business 
warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or large 
transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be illiquid. 
This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from the 
prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and the 
reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information they 
are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and meets 
the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as solicitors 
and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators have 
considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non- regulated 
introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the introducers 
that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes that are in place 
in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
oskills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and
undertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, identifying 
connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as instances 
of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax- relievable 
investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. The Dear CEO letter 
also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in relation to investment due 
diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent activity, 
money-laundering or pensions liberation
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is through a 
reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly drawn-up and 
legally enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase and 
subsequently
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I 
have considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance 
should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect 
the publications, which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should 
be doing, also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry 
practice and I am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in 
the BBSAL case, the Ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter 
go a long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. 
And the judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
Ombudsman.
Like the Ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I do not think the fact the publications, (other 
than the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that took place in relation to 
Mr Fs complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide were not good 
practice at the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were published 
after the events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed 
throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 
2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended 
good practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators 
comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice 
standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the 
standards themselves had not changed.
I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case did not consider the 2012 thematic review, 2013 
SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his 
consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it does not follow that those publications are 
irrelevant to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I am required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. 
And, as mentioned, the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
That doesnt mean that, in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Options actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the 
suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the 
Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend 
on the circumstances.
To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Options to ensure the 
pension transfer was suitable for Mr F. It is accepted Options was not required to give 
advice to Mr F and could not give advice. And I accept the publications do not alter the 
meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But they are evidence of what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
What did Options obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Options was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a particular 
introducer is appropriate to deal with. 
As noted above, it is clear from Options non-regulated introducer profile, that it understood 
and accepted its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out due diligence on 
CL&P. I am satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its business, 
Options was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular referrals of business, 
with the Principles in mind. This seems consistent with Options own understanding. I note in 
submissions on other complaints Options has told us that adherence to TCF is something it 
had in mind when considering its approach to introducer due diligence i.e. the question of 
whether it should accept business from a particular introducer.
All in all I am satisfied that, in order to meet the appropriate standards of good industry 
practice and the obligations set by the regulators rules and regulations, Options should have 
carried out due diligence on CL&P which was consistent with good industry practice and its 
regulatory obligations at the time. And in my opinion, Options should have used the 
knowledge it gained from its due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a referral of 
business or particular investment.
Due diligence on CL&P
The actions Options took  which were carried out after its relationship with CL&P began, 
rather than before it accepted business from CL&P  are set out in detail in the background 
sections above. So I will not repeat them here. However, I would note at this point that the 
actions Options took, in addition to being taken after Options began accepting business from 
CL&P, appear to have been taken on a reactive, piecemeal, basis.
In addition, the available evidence shows Options did not meet its own standards when 
carrying out due diligence on CL&P. From late 2011, in accordance with its own standards 
(as submitted to us), it should have carried out company checks on CL&P, reviewed CL&Ps 
accounts, and checked sanctions lists. As I set out above, these standards appear to be 
consistent with good industry practice and Options regulatory obligations at the relevant 
time (although it is not clear what a check of sanctions lists would encompass). However, 
Options did not - in practice - act in a way which was consistent with good industry practice 
and its regulatory obligations at the relevant time. I explain this in more detail below.
The FSA list
At the relevant time, the FSA list featured warnings (alerts) about unauthorised individuals 
and businesses. If Options had acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and good 
industry practice at the relevant time it ought to have undertaken sufficient enquiries on 
CL&P to understand who its directors were, and checked the FSAs warning list as part of its 
due diligence on CL&P. Had it carried out these checks before accepting business from 
CL&P it would have discovered that CL&Ps director Terence Wright was on the FSA 
warning list.
As part of its due diligence process, Options required CL&P to fill out a non-regulated 
introducer profile questionnaire. CL&P completed the questionnaire on 29 September 2011. 
The profile named the two directors of CL&P, one of which was Mr Wright. So, at this point, 
Options was aware Mr Wright was one of the directors of CL&P.
I note that the profile CL&P completed asked the question: Are you and/or the Firm subject 
to any on-going FSA or other regulatory body review, action or censure. Mr Wright 
answered No to this question. However, it was not sufficient, in my view, to simply ask the introducer a general question. Rather I think Options, acting fairly, with due regard to Mr Fs 
interests, should have carried out its own check on Mr Wright. And that appears to have 
been Options view too. Its comments suggest it understood it was good practice, consistent 
with its regulatory obligations, to make its own independent checks. So, it ought to have 
undertaken a check on Mr Wright before it began accepting introductions from CL&P.
In the event, Options did not check the FSAs list. It used the World Check service. And it did 
not check Mr Wright until 15 May 2012.  It only ran checks on a Ms Adams and a Mr Lloyd, 
around a month into its relationship with CL&P (on 20 September 2011). I understand that 
these individuals were only employees of CL&P and neither controlled nor managed CL&P.
I note that, in submissions on other complaints, in relation to the warning, Options says the 
FSA notice relating to Mr Wright was not entered onto World Check (the checking service it 
used) until 24 October 2011 - after it had carried out its checks on Ms Adams and Mr Lloyd 
and after it had started accepting business from CL&P. And so, if it had run a check on 
Mr Wright at the outset, this would not have revealed his entry on the FSAs warning list. In the 
same submissions Options says that it was under no obligation to check the FSAs list itself. 
CL&P was an unregulated business, based in Spain, and was proposing to deal with the 
pensions of UK consumers. Options ought to have known the FSA kept a list of alerts, 
relating to unregulated businesses, which were often based overseas. Options has not 
explained what a search/check of sanctions lists entailed. But I think a check of such lists 
should have included the FSAs list of alerts. 
In any event, as a SIPP operator considering accepting business from an unregulated 
overseas firm, it should have been mindful of the FSAs list of alerts, and in compliance with 
its regulatory obligations, checking the warnings posted on the FSAs website is something 
that Options should have done as a matter of course. I consider this amounts to good 
industry practice and, in my view, it would have been fair and reasonable, and in accordance 
with its regulatory obligations, for such a check to take place before it entered into a 
relationship with CL&P. 
So, if I accept that use of the World Check service to check Mr Wright at the outset would 
not have revealed his entry on the list, this does not change my view. Options should have 
checked the FSAs list. The fact that Options chose to use a tool and the tool may have 
missed something doesnt mean it shouldnt be held responsible  for the reasons given, it 
should have checked the list itself. 
To my mind, the fact that Options decided to delegate responsibility for undertaking the 
necessary checks to the World Check tool. And the relevant FSA warning had not been entered 
onto that tool until some considerable time after the warning appeared on the FSA list and 
therefore, even if it had entered the right name (which it didnt), it would not have picked up the 
warning in any event, is irrelevant to my finding that Options failed to undertake sufficient due 
diligence on CL&P and missed the fact that Mr Wright was subject to an FSA alert. 
Had Options ascertained who the directors of CL&P were at the outset of the relationship 
with CL&P and checked the FSAs list then (or at least at the point it did become aware 
Mr Wright was a director of CL&P), it would have discovered that Mr Wright was the subject 
of the following alert:
ALERT
The Financial Services Authority (FSA) has today published this statement in order to warn 
investors against dealing with unauthorised firms.The purpose of this statement is to advise members of the public that an individual 
Terence (Terry) Wright
is not authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry on a 
regulated activity in the UK. Regulated activities include, amongst other things, advising on 
investments. The FSA believes that the individual may be targeting UK customers via the 
firm Cash In Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service and the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme are not available if you deal with an unauthorised 
company or individual.
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to our Register of authorised 
firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
Cash incentives
On 9 December 2011, before it received Mr Fs application and/or his money for investment 
in Store First, Options became aware that a potential member had asked when they would 
receive their money from their Store First Investment. And it says the general risk of 
introducers offering cash incentives had been flagged to it by a trade body. Such payments 
are against the rules covering pensions and can attract a substantial tax charge from HMRC.
Further, whilst Options received Mr Fs application in March 2012, due to him not completing 
the form correctly, the application wasnt finalised and accepted until much later. The SIPP 
was not finalised until June 2012. Options had emailed Mr F on 12 June saying that it had 
been unable to fully establish his SIPP until it received the completed declaration page 
included in the application. It said once it received this it could fully establish the SIPP on its 
system. And it was only on 21 June 2012 that Options confirmed to Mr F that his personal 
pension transfer had been received into the SIPP scheme bank account. The amount being 
£40,609.53 - £32,000 of which had been invested in the Store First investments in July 2012. 
As noted above, prior to this, on 25 May 2012, Options had made the decision to terminate 
its agreement with CL&P, with the Options Head of Service and Operations telling CL&P of 
its (Options) decision to do so in an email that said: 
Despite your assurances that no clients have been or will be offered inducements (monetary 
or otherwise) for making investments through their SIPPs with us, we have received 
enquiries as to when client can expect to receive their money and have today been informed 
by a new client that they are expecting circa £2,000 on completion of the Storefirst 
investment purchase, which they confirmed was offered by a member of your staff.
We have advised this client that we will not proceed with this case.
In light of this, it is with regret that I have to notify you that we are terminating our Introducer 
Agreement with you, with immediate effect, and can no longer accept business from you. 
So, with these concerns in mind, which were sufficient enough for Options to cut ties with the 
introducer, I consider it was not fair nor reasonable for Options to continue to process Mr Fs 
application knowing that it had cut ties with CL&P and the reasons why it had done so. It 
clearly had concerns over CL&Ps integrity and no longer wanted to accept business from it.
Options had, in fact, not proceeded with a clients case as a result of its findings about 
inducements being offered by CL&P to clients and I see no reason why it could not have done the same in Mr Fs case given his SIPP application had not been completed. But it still 
proceeded with Mr Fs transfer despite knowing these facts before the SIPP had been fully 
established and before the transfer of his pension funds had been received from his previous 
pension provider. 
Mr F has said that if he had known of the situation with Options no longer wanting to do 
business with CL&P due to its concerns, he would not have proceeded. He confirmed he 
had been offered £1,000 to transfer but had not received this cash from CL&P or any other 
party. So, as Ive said, in the circumstances I do not think it was fair and reasonable for 
Options to proceed with Mr Fs application.
Accounts
Based on the available evidence, it appears a request for CL&Ps accounts was not made by 
Options 23 March 2012. Its not clear why the request was made at this time. But it seems 
CL& P did not respond as the request was repeated, as urgent, on 3 April 2012. CL&P 
replied to Options to say the information would be in the post the next day. However, when 
asked, Options has told us it has no record of receiving the information and that this was 
another likely factor in its eventual decision to end its relationship with CL&P.
In my opinion, it is fair and reasonable that Options should have met its own standards, 
set in late 2011, and should have checked CL&Ps accounts at the outset before 
accepting any business from it. This is a step it should reasonably have taken, to meet its 
regulatory obligations.
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Options failed to conduct 
sufficient due diligence on CL&P before accepting business from it. And, in light of the 
Principles and FSA/FCA regulatory publications I have quoted above, this means Options did 
not comply with its regulatory obligations or with good industry practice at the relevant time.
If Options had completed sufficient due diligence, what ought it reasonably to have 
concluded?
In my opinion, I think Mr Wrights appearance on the FSAs list ought to have highlighted to 
Options that the regulator was concerned enough about Mr Wrights activities to warn 
consumers about him. And I think in the circumstances it is fair and reasonable to conclude 
that the warning was aimed at protecting consumers from detriment in their dealings with him.
With this in mind, I think the warning should have acted as a significant reason for Options to 
be concerned about any business Mr Wright was involved in  not just Cash In Your 
Pension. The warning mentioned that Mr Wright was involved in the area of pensions  
which is the same business area that CL&P was active in. And the warning said that 
Mr Wright was not authorised and may be targeting UK customers in connection with 
investment business conducted through an unregulated company, Cash In Your Pension.
I also think the presence of Mr Wright on the list, after he had answered No to a question 
asking him if he was subject to any FSA action or censure, should immediately have raised a 
red flag to Options  it should have given rise to significant concern about Mr Wrights 
conduct and integrity.
I note that Options ended its relationship with CL&P shortly after completing the check on 
Mr Wright. Im satisfied that this check was a factor in its decision to end the relationship. 
Options has told us that the wording in the 2013 warning, if it had been published at the time 
of it accepting business from CL&P, would have been sufficient to stop it doing business with Mr Wright/CL&P. It said: The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a clear 
warning including an express comment that Mr Wright was an individual to avoid, a warning 
that would have put Options Pensions on notice to stop accepting business from Mr Wright. 
(my emphasis)
Options says, in its representations in this complaint relating to the FSAs list, that the 2010 
warning would not have led it to the same conclusion. It says: the Notice (the alert) 
amounts simply to a notification that Mr Wright is not authorised to carry on regulated 
activities, a fact of which Options was well aware and upon which basis it accepted referrals 
from CL&P.
This seems to be at odds with the action it took in 2012, based on the 2010 warning. And I 
note Options Chief Executive, Ms Hallett, gave evidence to the court during the High Court 
Adams v Options hearing, which is summarised at Paragraph 60 of the judgment as follows: It 
was also brought to my attention that from October 2010 the FCA had published warnings 
about dealing with another director, Mr Terence Wright, who was not authorised under FSMA 
to carry out regulated activity. Ms Hallett accepted in cross examination that no check was 
made to see whether his name appeared on a regulatory warning notice on the FCAs website 
until May 2012. The relationship between the defendant and CLP was severed on 25 May 
2012. She accepted that had she been aware of such a warning in 2010 the defendant would 
not have dealt with CLP.
This, in my view, is inconsistent with Options representations to us on this complaint. In any 
event, although in its representations on this complaint Options has said it believes the 2010 
alert was less significant than the 2013 one, by comparing the wording of the two alerts, I 
think the October 2010 alert was a clear indication that the regulator had serious concerns 
about the way Mr Wright conducted his business and therefore should have put Options on 
notice that it should not accept business from him.
Options adds that the 2010 alert does not detail any concern by the regulator about 
Mr Wright. I accept that the 2013 alert provides strong advice to only deal with financial firms 
authorised by the FCA. However, I do not agree with Options characterisation of the 2010 
alert and Im surprised that Options suggests that the regulator does not detail any concern 
about Mr Wright in the 2010 alert.
A publication headed ALERT in bold is clearly not routine and unimportant. Its clear from 
the wording itself that the FSA was warning investors against dealing with unauthorised firms 
and specifically named Mr Wright. He was involved in targeting (to use the FSAs phrase) 
UK based pension investors  which should have been of particular concern to a SIPP 
operator considering accepting business from him. The alert also provided links to:
A list of unauthorised firms.
A press release about unauthorised firms targeting UK investors.
A document telling investors about the tactics adopted by unauthorised firms targeting 
UK investors.
A document explaining share scams.
In my opinion, it is fair and reasonable to conclude that the warning was more than a mere 
statement of fact that an unauthorised firm could not carry out regulated activities. It was a 
clear warning  an alert - relating specifically to Mr Wright, providing links to guidance on 
consumer protection and warnings about scams.
So, in my opinion, CL&Ps director Terence Wrights presence on the FSA warning list should 
have led Options to conclude it should not do business with CL&P. That is my view and I note it is a view which was held by Ms Hallett when she gave evidence to the court during 
the Adams v Options hearing. Ms Hallett told the Court that if she had been aware of the 
warning in 2010 Options would not have dealt with CL&P. Such a conclusion was the proper 
one it ought to have reached bearing in mind Options responsibilities under the Principles.
In addition, as I set out above, on the issue of cash incentives, I do not think it was fair and 
reasonable for Options to simply rely on a denial by CL&P in circumstances where it seems 
it was aware cash incentives were being offered. I think Options should have taken steps to 
independently check the position, and it is fair and reasonable to conclude that prompt action 
would have inevitably led Options to discover that cash incentive payments were being 
widely offered by CL&P at that time, and that what CL&P had told Options was not correct.
It follows that Options ought to have concluded  as it belatedly did when the issue of cash 
incentives came to light again in 2012  that it could not rely on what CL&P was telling it and 
it would not be consistent with its regulatory obligations to deal with any further business 
from CL&P.
If Options had acted with a reasonable amount of diligence it would have discovered that 
CL&P was acting in a way which was, to use its own words, completely against all rules. And 
it would have known that CL&P was acting without integrity  it had not told it the truth when 
asked about cash incentives. In my view, the only fair and reasonable thing it could do would 
have been to decide not to accept any further business from CL&P and not to proceed with 
any applications which had not completed (that is to say the investment had not been made).
So, Options should have taken action on the issue of cash incentives  which would 
ultimately have led to it ending it relationship with CL&P - before it sent Mr Fs money for 
investment in Store First. Or in his case, set up the SIPP in the first place.
Finally, I think if checks on CL&Ps accounts had been attempted earlier, the fact that CL&P 
were unwilling to provide this information should have raised a red flag, as it apparently 
eventually did. This reluctance to provide basic information should have been a further factor 
which ought to have led Options to question whether it should enter into, or to continue with 
a relationship with CL&P. And, it would have meant Options should never have entered into 
a relationship with CL&P at all.
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Options ought reasonably to 
have concluded, had it complied with its regulatory obligations which required it to conduct 
sufficient due diligence on CL&P before accepting business from it, that it should not accept 
business from CL&P. If Options had carried out proper introducer due diligence it ought to 
have concluded that it should not accept business from CL&P. I therefore conclude that it is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say that Options should not have accepted 
Mr Fs application from CL&P.
Furthermore, had Options complied with its regulatory obligations - which required it to 
consider and act on information received about the conduct of CL&P before continuing to 
accept business from it  it should, in any event, have concluded it should not proceed with 
Mr Fs application, given everything I say above about the issue of cash incentives.
Investment due diligence
As Ive explained above, Options should neither have accepted Mr Fs introduction from 
CL&P nor proceeded with his application to make the Store First investment. I think it is fair 
and reasonable to uphold this complaint on that basis alone. Nevertheless, given the 
submissions that Options has previously made about its due diligence on Store First, and the regulatory obligations and good industry practice I have set out above, Ive also considered 
the due diligence that Options carried out on the investment. I have taken the same 
approach to considering this as I did to considering the due diligence undertaken on CL&P.
The actions Options took are set out in detail in the background sections above, so I will not 
repeat them here. I think some of the actions Options took were in-line with good practice at 
the relevant time when carrying out its due diligence on Store First. However, I think Options 
failed to take all the actions that were required of it in order to comply with its regulatory 
obligations and good practice. And, based on what it knew, it failed to draw a reasonable 
conclusion on accepting the investment. I do not think Options actions went far enough, and 
I think it ought to have carried out further enquiries in the light of what was revealed by the 
due diligence it did carry out.
I note the company searches were carried out using a service called Company Searches. 
This was good practice but consistent with its regulatory obligations, Options should not only 
have carried out the searches but also given careful consideration to what they revealed.
The searches were carried out on the promoter of Store First, Harley Scott Holdings Ltd, not 
Store First itself  perhaps because at that point Store First was just being established. The 
result of the searches reported that Harley Scott Holdings Ltd had a website address 
dylanharvey.com, and had changed its name three times having previously been called 
Dylan Harvey Group Ltd, Dylan Harvey Ltd and Grangemate Ltd. The report also said 
County Court Judgments (CCJs) were recorded against the business and that auditors had 
made adverse comments in the previous three reporting years.
Its not clear what consideration Options gave to this report, after it obtained it. But, in my 
view, it would have been fair and reasonable for it to have conducted some further basic 
searches, given there were factors in the report which ought to have been of concern  
namely the adverse comments for the previous three years, the CCJs, and the fact the 
business had recently changed its name.
Had such basic searches been completed I think it likely they would have revealed that, at the 
time, Dylan Harvey and one of its directors, Toby Whittaker, were the subject of a national 
press reports, online petitions and proposed legal action, as a result of a failed property 
investment. It was reported that hundreds of investors had invested money in a scheme to 
develop flats, but the flats had not been built and the investors had been unable to recover 
their money. Those investors were behind the online petitions and proposed legal action.
Options says it obtained copies of Store Firsts marketing material. It has provided us with 
copies of this. Again, I accept that potentially this was good practice. In order to correctly 
understand the nature of the investment, I think its fair and reasonable to say Options 
should have reviewed how Store First was marketed to investors  particularly as it was 
proceeding on the basis that these investments were being made by consumers without 
regulated advice being provided. Clearly Options thought it was important to look at this 
material at the time too.
But, again, consistent with its regulatory obligations, Options should not only have obtained 
the material but should have given careful consideration to it.
The marketing material included the following prominent statements:
You will receive guaranteed returns from a 6 year lease already in place upon completion, 
making this a high yielding, hassle-free investment which has been specifically designed to 
meet the needs of todays astute investor.You will receive a 6 year lease in place upon completion. The lease produces an excellent 
return of 8% (guaranteed for the first 2 years) rising to over 12% in years 5 and 6. The lease 
contains upward-only rental reviews and break clauses for both parties every two years.
Guaranteed exit route option.
It then goes on to set out in a table the returns payable in years 1&2, 3&4 and 5&6 at 8%, 
10% and 12%. In the question and answer section the following is included:
What rental income can I expect?
Storepod rental starts at £17 per Sq/Ft per annum. The 6 year tenancy/Iease in place on 
your Storepod has fixed upwards only rental reviews and break clauses (for both parties) 
every 2 years. This produces an 8% yield on your investment within the first two years, this 
then is predicted to rise to over 10% return in years 3&4 and then surpass 12% return in 
years 5&6.
Can I easily re-sell my Storepod?
Yes. You can re-sell your Storepod at any time and selling your Storepod couldnt be 
simpler. Store First Ltd can market your Storepod upon your request. We believe that 
because Storepods are so competitively priced when new, they will make a very attractive 
sale proposition in the future. We also expect that many tenants will wish to purchase the 
Storepod they are using. For example, other self storage PLCs usually achieve rent of 
between £20.00 - £25.00 per square foot. Our Storepods are costed at a rent of only £17.00 
per square foot; once higher rents are achieved the capital value of the Storepod will 
increase.
Guaranteed exit route?
In year 5, investors have the option to enter the guaranteed buy-back scheme. In this 
scheme, Store First Management Ltd will guarantee to buy the Storepod back off the 
investor for the original price paid within the next 5 years. This is a unique offer in the market 
place and we are happy to be able to offer this exit route to our investors.
Most investors are driven to keep the property investment they have purchased and carry on 
receiving the rental yield produced for years to come, this means only a very limited number 
of Storepods per centre will ever come onto the resale market, this creates a high sale value 
and demand for the future.
The material says the figures shown are for illustration purposes. But it does not contain 
any type of risk warning, or illustrations of any other returns. No explanation of the 
guarantees was offered, or the basis of the projected returns  other than Store Firsts own 
confidence in its business model and the self-storage marketplace.
I note Options considered a report by Enhanced Support Solutions (ESS). In my view this 
was of limited value. It was cursory and based only on some of the material Options had 
regard to i.e. the marketing material and lease documents. As a result, I think Options should 
have found it difficult to reconcile the view reached by ESS with the information available to 
it. The report said:
The following parties are involved in this investment: Seller of the sub-lease: Store First 
Limited
UK Promoter: Harley Scott Holdings LimitedNo adverse history has been found affecting these parties. A CCJ was issued against the 
promoter of the scheme however we understand this arose from a disputed invoice which is 
in the course of being settled. This is any event does not directly impact on the investment.
This conclusion is inconsistent with the result of Options own company searches. The report 
also makes no comment on the obvious issues with the marketing material. So, I dont think 
Options could have taken any comfort from the ESS report or attached any significant weight 
to it.
If Options had completed sufficient due diligence on Store First, what ought it 
reasonably to have concluded?
The failure of the previous scheme which Dylan Harley/Harley Scott Holdings had been 
involved in may have been entirely down to market forces. But I think the fact that the 
company which had approached Options about Store First  and on which Options had 
conducted searches  had recently been involved in a property investment scheme which 
had failed, had recently changed its name, and had been subject to a number of adverse 
comments in succession, following audit, ought to have given Options significant cause for 
concern. Particularly when it considered the marketing material for Store First.
In my view there were a number of things about the marketing material which ought to have 
given Options significant cause for concern and to have led it to have drawn similar 
conclusions to those later drawn by SSA UK (on the basis of a report by Deloitte LLP) and 
the Insolvency Service. Namely, that there was a significant risk that potential investors were 
being misled.
I think, as it had regard to this material, Options could not overlook the fact that Store First 
appeared to be presenting the investment as one that was assured to provide high and rising 
returns, was underwritten by guarantees, and offered a high level of liquidity together with a 
strong prospect of a capital return - despite the fact that there was no investor protection 
associated with the investment and that, in Options own words, there was no apparent 
established market for the investment and the investment was potentially illiquid.
Store First had no proven track record for investors and so Options couldnt be certain that 
the investment operated as claimed. Options should also have been concerned about a 
guarantee offered by a new business with no track record (and promoted by a business with 
a questionable one).
I think, in light of this, Options should have been concerned that consumers may have been 
misled or did not properly understand the investment they intended to make. Consumers 
could easily have been given the impression, from the marketing material, that they were 
assured of high returns with little or no risk and would easily be able to sell their investment 
when they wished to. Such an impression was clearly misleading.
I also think all of this should have been considered alongside the fact the investment was 
being sold by an unregulated business, which was clearly targeting pension investors. In my 
opinion it is fair and reasonable that Options ought to have concluded there was an obvious 
risk of consumer detriment.
All in all, I am satisfied that Options ought to have had a significant cause for concern about 
the nature of the Store First investment from the beginning. And I think these concerns, in 
themselves, should have at the very least led it to be very cautious about accepting Store 
First and to think very carefully about the basis on which it should be accepted, mindful of its obligation to prevent consumer detriment. So this should have been at the forefront of its 
mind when considering whether to accept applications from CL&P.
Did Options act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Fs instructions?
Options has said that it was reasonable to proceed in the light of the indemnity, and that it 
was obliged to proceed in accordance with COBS 11.2.19R.
COBS 11.2.19R
I note that Options has not specifically made the point about COBS 11.2.19R which it has 
said on other occasions meant it was obliged it to execute investment instructions made by 
clients who completed its SIPP applications. 
COBS 11.2.19R was considered and rejected by the judge in BBSAL. In that case Jacobs J 
said:
The heading to COBS 11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in which orders 
are to be executed: i.e. on terms most favourable to the client. This is consistent with the 
heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely: Best execution. The text of COBS 11.2.1R is to 
the same effect. The expression when executing orders indicates that it is looking at the 
moment when the firm comes to execute the order, and the way in which the firm must then 
conduct itself. It is concerned with the mechanics of execution; a conclusion reached, albeit 
in a different context, in Bailey & Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras [34]  
[35]. It is not addressing an anterior question, namely whether a particular order should be 
executed at all. I agree with the FCAs submission that COBS 11.2 is a section of the 
Handbook concerned with the method of execution of client orders, and is designed to 
achieve a high quality of execution. It presupposes that there is an order being executed, 
and refers to the factors that must be taken into account when deciding how best to execute 
the order. It has nothing to do with the question of whether or not the order should be 
accepted in the first place.
I therefore dont think that Options could have decided whether or not to accept an 
application to open a SIPP in the first place and/or to execute the instruction to make the 
Store First investment i.e. to proceed with the application.
The declaration
I have not seen a copy of the indemnity that other clients of Options had signed when 
dealing with introductions from CL&P. But Options did have a declaration in the SIPP 
application which effectively confirmed that Mr F was aware the investment was high risk, 
had taken his own advice, and would not hold Options responsible for any liability resulting 
from the investment. 
The FSAs 2009 report said that SIPP operators should, as an example of good practice, 
be: Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for investment decisions and gathering and analysing data regarding 
the aggregate volume of such business.
With this in mind, I think Options ought to have been cautious about accepting Mr Fs 
application even though he had signed the declaration after he was prompted to when he 
failed to do so the first time. Whilst I have not seen a signed copy, given Options would not 
go ahead without Mr F signing its declaration in its application form, parts of which Ive 
quoted above, I think its more likely than not that he did sign the declaration as part of his 
application. There was no evidence of any other regulated party (other than Options) being involved in this transaction. In these circumstances I think very little comfort could have been 
taken from the declaration stating that Mr F had taken his own advice and understood the 
risks (in relation to the investment).
Options had to act in a way that was consistent with the regulatory obligations that Ive set 
out in this decision. In my view, Options was not treating Mr F fairly by asking him to sign a 
declaration absolving Options of all responsibility, and relying on such a declaration, when it 
ought to have known that Mr Fs dealings with CL&P were putting him at significant risk.
Summary of my findings on due diligence
In summary, Options did not comply with good industry practice, act with due skill, care and 
diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly, or treat Mr F fairly by accepting his 
application from CL&P, in the light of what it knew or ought to have known about CL&P and 
the Store First investment before Mr Fs application was received. And by proceeding in the 
light of what it knew or ought to have known about CL&P and the Store First investment by 
the time the investment was made. For all the reasons given, I am satisfied that, in my 
opinion, this is the fair and reasonable conclusion to reach.
For the avoidance of doubt, Im not making a finding that Options should have assessed the 
suitability of the investment or the SIPP for Mr F. I accept Options had no obligation to give 
advice to Mr F, or otherwise ensure the suitability of a pension product or investment for him. 
My finding is not that Options should have concluded that the investment or SIPP was not 
suitable for Mr F. Rather, Options was able to accept or reject applications for business and I 
say that it should have rejected Mr Fs application for a SIPP introduced by CL&P, and failing 
that, for the reasons I set out above, it should not have accepted his request to invest in 
Store First. 
s27 and s28 FSMA
As set out in the relevant considerations section above, I have also considered the 
application of s27 and s28 FSMA. I have set out the key sections of s27 and s28 above and 
have considered them carefully, in full. In my view I need to apply a four-stage test to 
determine whether s27 applies and whether a court would exercise its discretion under s28, 
as follows:
1. Whether an unauthorised third-party was involved;
2. whether there is evidence that the third-party acted in breach of the General 
Prohibition in relation to the particular transaction and, if so;
3. whether the customer entered into an agreement with an authorised firm in 
consequence of something said or done by the unauthorised third-party in the course 
of its activities that contravened the General Prohibition; and
4. whether it is just and equitable for the agreement between the customer and the 
authorised firm to be enforced in any event.
Was an unauthorised third-party involved?
There is no dispute CL&P was an unauthorised third party.
Is there evidence CL&P acted in breach of the General Prohibition?
Under Article 53 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) 
the following were regulated activities:
Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent) - 
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Under Article 25 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) 
the following are regulated activities:
(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to buy, sell, 
subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is
(a) a security,
(b) a relevant investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified by article 86, or article 89 so far as relevant to 
that article, is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the arrangements 
buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments falling within paragraph 
(1)(a), (b) or (c) (whether as principal or agent) is also a specified kind of activity.
There is an exclusion under Article 26 of arrangements which do not or would not bring 
about the transaction to which the arrangements relate
I have considered these in turn.
Advice
I think the following part of the Court of Appeals judgment in the Adams case is of particular 
relevance here.
Paragraph 82: In short, CLPs recommendation that Mr Adams invest in storepods carried 
with it advice that he transfer out of his Friends Life policy and put the money into a Carey 
SIPP. Investment in storepods may have been the ultimate objective, but it was to be gained 
by transferring out of the Friends Life policy and into a Carey SIPP. CLP thus proposed that 
Mr Adams undertake those transactions too and, in so doing, gave advice on the merits of 
selling a particular investment which is a security (viz. the Friends Life policy) and buying 
another particular investment which is a security (viz. a Carey SIPP). Although, therefore, 
the advice to invest in storepods was not of itself covered by article 53 of the RAO, CLP 
nonetheless gave Mr Adams advice within the scope of article 53 and so acted in 
contravention of the general prohibition.
Here, Mr F was contacted by CL&P and his evidence is that CL&P advised him to transfer 
out of his existing personal pension, into the Options SIPP and invest in Store First. I think 
that evidence is plausible, and credible. I do not think Mr F thought of taking this course of 
action of his own volition or would have done so without a positive recommendation from 
CL&P which, he says, gave him various assurances about the risks involved and guaranteed higher performance returns. I also note it was CL&P which contacted Mr F  
he did not find CL&P in the course of looking for alternative pension options.
To confirm, I am satisfied CL&P advised Mr F to transfer out of his existing pension and 
transfer into the Options SIPP  and so it undertook the regulated activity defined at article 
53 of the RAO.
Making arrangements
I think the following parts of the Court of Appeals judgement in the Adams case are of 
particular relevance here:
Paragraph 99: The fact remains that CLP pre-completed the application form so that 
[Mr Adams] could just sign it (to quote Mr Adams witness statement). It also told Mr Adams of 
documents he would need to supply for anti-money laundering purposes and explained that 
the completed forms and [his] anti money laundering documents will be collected by courier 
and taken to Carey Pensions UK. Arrangements being a broad and untechnical word in 
article 25 of the RAO as well as section 235 of FSMA, it is apt to describe what CLP did.
Paragraph 100:
I consider, too, that the steps which CLP took can fairly be said to have been such as to 
bring about the transfers from Friends Life and into the Carey SIPP. Contrary to the 
Judges understanding, it does not matter that CLPs acts did not necessarily result in any 
transaction between [Mr Adams] and [Carey] or that the process was out of CLPs hands to 
control in any event. Nor is it determinative whether steps can be termed administrative.
CLPs procuring the letter of authority, role in relation to anti-money laundering 
requirements and (especially) completion of the Carey application form were much more 
closely related to the relevant transactions than, say, the advertisement which originally 
prompted Mr Adams to contact CLP. It is to be remembered that CLP filled in sections of the 
application form dealing with Personal Details, Occupation & Eligibility, Transfers, 
Investments and Nomination Of Beneficiaries. In my view, what CLP did was thus 
significantly instrumental in the material transfers. In other words, there was, in my view, 
sufficient causal potency to satisfy the requirements of article 26 of the RAO.
In Mr Fs case, at the outset he gave Options permission to liaise directly with CL&P Brokers 
in respect of all matters regarding his pension arrangements. And it seems the application 
form was pre-populated by CL&P. 
So the steps which CL&P took can fairly be said to have been such as to bring about the 
transfer from Mr Fs existing personal pension into the Options SIPP  they had sufficient 
causal potency to satisfy the requirements of article 26 of the RAO.
I am therefore satisfied CL&P carried out regulated activities, and therefore breached the 
General Prohibition. And any one regulated activity is sufficient for these purposes so this 
test would be met if CL&P had only undertaken arranging (which, for the reasons I have set 
out, I do not think is the case).
Did Mr F enter into an agreement with Options in consequence of CL&Ps actions?
I am satisfied the SIPP was opened in consequence of the advice given, and arrangements 
made, by CL&P. If CL&P had not contacted Mr F, advised him to transfer his existing 
personal pension to a SIPP with Options in order to invest in Store First, and then made the arrangements for that to happen I am satisfied Mr F would not have entered into an 
agreement with Options.
Would the Courts conclude it is just and equitable for the agreement between Mr F 
and Options to be enforced in any event?
Having carefully considered this, I am satisfied a Court would not conclude it is just and 
equitable for the agreement between Mr F and Options to be enforced in any event. I 
think very similar reasons to those mentioned by the Court of Appeal in the Adams 
case apply here:
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own 
decisions, there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard 
consumers from their own folly.
While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from 
unregulated sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated 
with doing so onto the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to 
enforce agreements and being required to return money and other property and to 
pay compensation regardless of whether they had had knowledge of third parties 
contraventions of the general prohibition.
As set out above Options was aware, or ought to have been aware:
oMr Wright featured on the FSAs list of alerts about unauthorised individuals 
and businesses 
oIt had not been privy to CL&Ps company accounts.
oCL&P was offering cash incentives to consumers and therefore acting 
completely against all rules.
The investment did not proceed until these things were known or ought to have been 
known to Options and so it was  or should have been - open to it to decline the 
investment.
So I am satisfied s27 FSMA offers a further and alternative basis on which it would be fair 
and reasonable to conclude Mr Fs complaint should be upheld.
I have therefore gone on to consider the question of fair compensation.
Is it fair to ask Options to compensate Mr F?
In deciding whether Options is responsible for any losses that Mr F has suffered on his Store 
First investment I need to look at what would have happened if Options had done what it 
should have done i.e. had not accepted Mr F SIPP application in the first place. When 
considering this I have taken into account the Court of Appeals supplementary judgment in 
Adams ([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgment deals with restitution/compensation.
I am required to make the decision I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case and I do not consider the fact that Mr F signed the declaration 
means that he shouldnt be compensated if it is fair and reasonable to do so.
In deciding whether Options is responsible for any losses that Mr F has suffered on the 
investments in his SIPP I need to look at what would have happened if Options had done 
what it should have done i.e. not accepted Mr Fs application.Had Options acted fairly and reasonably it should have concluded that it should not accept 
Mr Fs application to open a SIPP. That should have been the end of the matter  it should 
have told him that it could not accept the business. And I am satisfied, if that had happened, 
the arrangement for Mr F would not have come about in the first place, and the loss he 
suffered could have been avoided. The financial loss has flowed from Mr F transferring out 
of his existing pension and into a SIPP. For the reasons I set out below I am satisfied that, 
had the SIPP application not been accepted, the loss would not have been suffered. I would 
reach a similar conclusion if Options had terminated the transaction at a later stage once it 
was in possession of certain facts that meant there was a significant chance Mr F could 
suffer financial detriment.
Had Options explained to Mr F why it would not accept the application from CL&P or was 
terminating the transaction, I find it very unlikely that he would have tried to find another 
SIPP operator to accept the business.
So Im satisfied that Mr F would not have continued with the SIPP, had it not been for 
Options failings and would have remained in his existing scheme. And, whilst I accept that 
CL&P is responsible for initiating the course of action that has led to his loss, I consider that 
Options failed unreasonably to put a stop to that course of action when it had the opportunity 
and obligation to do so.
I have considered paragraph 154 of the Adams v Options High Court judgment, which 
says: The investment here was acknowledged by the claimant to be high risk and/or 
speculative. He accepted responsibility for evaluating that risk and for deciding to 
proceed in knowledge of the risk. A duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the 
best interests of the client, who is to take responsibility for his own decisions, cannot be 
construed in my judgment  as meaning that the terms of the contract should be 
overlooked, that the client is not to be treated as able to reach and take responsibility 
for his own decisions and that his instructions are not to be followed.
For all the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr Fs actions 
mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of Options failings. I do not say Options 
should not have accepted the application because the investment was high risk. I 
acknowledge Mr F was warned of the high risk and declared he understood that warning. 
But, as I set out above, Options did not share significant warning signs with him so that he 
could make an informed decision about whether to proceed or not. 
Furthermore, as set out above, I am satisfied there is a legal basis on which Mr F is entitled 
to compensation, by virtue of s27 FSMA.
So, I am satisfied in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, that it is fair and 
reasonable to conclude that Options should compensate Mr F for the loss he has suffered. I 
am not asking Options to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. 
I am satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That other 
parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, which I am not able 
to determine. However, that fact should not impact on Mr Fs right to fair compensation from 
Options for the full amount of his loss.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr F to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Options failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting Mr Fs SIPP 
application from CL&P or for not terminating the transaction before completion. In light of the above, Options should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr F would be in if he had not transferred from his existing pension. 
In summary, Options should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr F has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of the Store First investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Fs pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr F direct. In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ill explain how Options should carry out the calculation set out in steps 1-4 below:
1.Calculate the loss Mr F has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Options should work out the likely value of Mr Fs pension as at the date of this 
decision, had he left it where it was instead of transferring to the SIPP. Options should ask 
Mr F's former pension provider to calculate the current notional transfer value had he not 
transferred his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) should be used to calculate the value. That is 
likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved if 
suitable funds had been chosen.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr F has suffered. The Store First 
investment should be assumed to have no value.
2.Take ownership of the Store First investments
I understand Options has been able to take ownership of the Store First investment, for a nil 
consideration, in other cases. It should do that here, if possible. If Options is unable to take 
ownership of the Store First investment it should remain in the SIPP. I think that is fair 
because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant realisable value in the future. I 
understand Mr F has the option of returning his Store First investment to the freeholder for 
nil consideration. That should enable him to close his SIPP, if Options does not take 
ownership of the Store First investment.
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and Mr F decides not to transfer 
it to the freeholder he should be aware that he will be liable for all future costs associated 
with the investment such as the ongoing SIPP fees, business rates, ground rent and any 
other charges. He should also be aware it is unlikely he will be able to make a further 
complaint about these costs.
3.Pay compensation to Mr F for loss he has suffered calculated in step 1 above.
Since the loss Mr F has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the 
compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for 
the income tax relief Mr F could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Fs marginal rate of tax.On the other hand, Mr F may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr F direct. But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr F should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. If Mr F has remaining tax-free cash entitlement, 
25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
4.Pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr F has been caused considerable distress and inconvenience by the total loss of his 
pension benefits. This is money Mr F cannot afford to lose and its loss has caused him 
distress and inconvenience. I consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate 
for that.
interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Options 
receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Options deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr F how much has been taken off. And Options should also then give 
Mr F a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr F asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint. Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP must calculate and pay compensation as set out above under Putting 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman