DRN-2358346
The complaint
Mr W has complained about his car insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc in relation to a claim 
made when his car was damaged during a flood.
What happened
Mr Ws car was damaged during a flood on 16 February 2020. A payment to settle the claim 
was made within a month, but Mr W felt it had been more complicated than necessary, he 
hadnt been responded to in a timely manner and that AXA had constantly sought to cause 
delays. He also told AXA that he was unhappy that the claim was being logged as one of 
fault against him, that AXA had deducted his excess from the claim settlement even though 
it accepted he wasnt to blame for the loss, that AXAs claim settlement had been unfair and 
that it had sold the car which it didnt own, even advertising it for sale before the claim had 
been settled. All this was summarised in an email to AXA dated 7 April 2020, along with a 
request for a copy of its engineers report. 
AXA explained to Mr W how it had reached the total loss value applied to his claim and why 
his excess had to be deducted from that sum before settlement was made. AXA also 
explained that the settlement meant the car now belonged to it. Regarding the engineers 
report it said it would make internal enquiries to see whether this could be shared with Mr W.
As Mr W remained unhappy he complained to us. In short, our investigator felt that AXA had 
handled the claim reasonably and made a fair offer of settlement. So he wasnt minded to 
make it do anything else. 
Mr W felt the way in which our investigator had set out his view had meant he hadnt 
answered the complaint made. Overall he felt AXA hadnt been fair. Our investigator then 
provided some further replies to the specific list of queries set out in Mr Ws complaint form. 
Mr W asked for an ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Ill explain that it isnt unusual for our service to summarise a complaint. And in 
doing that the findings that we make dont always follow the same format as that set out by 
the complainant. Or indeed even as responded to by the insurer. But that doesnt mean we 
havent considered and answered the complaint made. Were an informal complaints 
handling body and, as such, our remit is to get to the heart of a complaint and establish if a 
business has treated a consumer fairly and reasonably. So we usually set out our findings in 
a manner that describes those findings generally, rather than addressing each and every 
point or issue raised. 
Here Mr Ws car was damaged in February 2020 and AXA had considered and settled the 
claim within a month. I appreciate that having a car was important for Mr W  but I dont think 
AXA caused any unreasonable delays in settling the claim. I think it responded to emails in a 
timely manner, albeit that the period in which it responded in was not as quick as Mr W 
would have liked. And whilst there was more than one company to deal with, thats not 
unusual in claims of this nature. 
I can see that AXA, last year, was looking to see how it could send its engineers report to 
Mr W. I understand it may have needed some redactions to be made and that it had to be 
sent securely. If Mr W still wants to see that he should contact AXA to arrange receipt. But in 
all honesty the content of the email AXA sent to Mr W on 6 March 2020 contains the most 
specific and important information about how AXA, via its engineer, determined what the 
total loss value was of Mr Ws car. 
That email explains that not only has AXA considered trade guide prices  used in valuing 
second hand cars  but that it reviewd internet sale values too. Also that the engineer 
accepts the car had some options from new that had enhanced its value. Further, rather 
than applying an average to the prices generated by the trade guides  which is the usual 
approach insurers take to valuing second hand cars, and a practice we think is reasonable   
the engineer felt that using the top price was warranted here. And thats before making an 
addition to account for the value added by the options. I think AXA acted fairly and 
reasonably in determining the total loss value for Mr Ws car. 
Once a car is deemed to be a total loss and settlement for it is made to the policyholder, the 
insurer becomes the owner of the car. An insurer shouldnt sell a car before the claim is 
concluded. I can see it was frustrating for Mr W to know AXA had already advertised the car 
for sale before hed received the settlement payment. Thats unfortunate. But there was no 
dispute that the car was a total loss, and so I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to act 
in preparation for the point settlement was reached. 
No-one has suggested that Mr W is in any way to blame for the unfortunate loss he suffered. 
But his not being at fault, doesnt mean this claim should be recorded as non-fault against 
him. That is not how insurance works. It might help if I explain that the term fault in relation 
to an insurance claim, doesn't mean that the policyholder has done something wrong or is 
anyway to blame for the claim. Instead, if a policyholder makes a claim and the insurer 
settles it, with no option being possible for recovering that outlay from another party, then the 
claim is reasonably logged as a fault claim. Similarly, because theres no-one for the 
insurer to claim the excess payment back from, and because the policy requires an excess 
payment to be made for every claim, the insurer, when settling the claim, is entitled to deduct 
the excess sum from the total loss payment. So I think it was fair for AXA to record this claim 
as a fault against Mr Ws insurance history and to deduct the excess from the claim 
settlement.
I can see this claim has caused some disruption and frustration for Mr W. But its common 
for the circumstances that give rise to a claim to cause a policyholder some upset. And 
having seen what went on, Im not persuaded that what Mr W suffered was caused or made 
worse by any failure of AXA. I think AXA handled his claim fairly and reasonably, with it 
settling it in the same manner.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman