DRN-3859496
The complaint
Ms S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money she lost in a scam.
What happened
Ms S is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Ms S throughout my decision. 
Ms S says that a friend of hers told her about a platform Ill refer to in this decision as P. She 
was required to download an app that she says had good reviews and looked professional 
and was contacted by an account manager through a messaging app and added to a group. 
Ms S was required to make a deposit to release packages that would allow her to like social 
media content. She would receive a set amount each time she liked something. The amount 
she would receive per like depended on the platform. Ps logo was similar to a well-known 
company and appeared to be related to it and Ms S says she checked P on the Companies 
House website. 
On 24 January 2022 Ms S paid £100 for a package that allowed her to earn £2 a day for 
likes on a social media platform. She saw that as she liked things the balance of her wallet 
reached around £30. She was then advised of a VIP offer where the more she invested the 
greater the amount she earned. The maximum investment was £3,000 which Ms S paid to a 
different payee on 12 February 2022. She says she expected to receive £100 a day after 
making this payment. She has provided a profit analysis table that shows that a £3,000 
payment gave her 175 tasks and a daily income of £105 and a monthly income of £3,150. 
Shortly after Ms S made the second payment P went offline, supposedly for a few hours. 
She has been unable to contact P since.
Ms S contacted Monzo to say she was the victim of a scam on 14 February 2022. Monzo 
considered Ms Ss claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) but 
didnt agree to provide a refund. Whilst Monzo hasnt signed up to the CRM Code it has 
agreed to follow its principles. Monzo said Ms S didnt complete enough checks before 
making the payments and referred to the warnings it provided.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in part. She 
said that Ms S had a reasonable basis of belief in respect of the first payment of £100 so 
should receive a full refund of that payment. By the second payment the deal offered by P 
was too good to be true and the premise of the deal not very believable. But as Monzo didnt 
meet its standard by providing an effective warning it should reimburse half of the second 
payment. 
Ms S agreed with the investigators recommendation, but Monzo didnt. It said:
- Neither of the accounts Ms S paid had any connection with the company she thought 
she was dealing with (P) and the fact the payee name was different for the second 
payment should have concerned Ms S. 
- P was incorporated after the first payment had been made so it seems unlikely Ms S 
completed the checks she said she had before making this payment. 
- The payments Miss S made werent out of the ordinary, but Monzo still provided 
warnings when a new payee was created and when making payments. One of these 
warnings advised Ms S to stop if the deal seemed too good to be true, which was the 
case here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Ms S under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Ms S was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for Ms S to receive a refund of the money she lost. Under the CRM Code, a bank 
may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
I have considered the position for each of the two payments Ms S made.
Payment 1 - £100
On balance, I think Ms S had a reasonable basis for believing she was paying for a 
legitimate service when she made this payment. She had received a recommendation from a 
friend who said shed made money through P. Ms S had downloaded an app that at the time 
had good reviews and had to register by providing personal details. Ms S was also able to 
use the app to make the deposit. The rate of return/salary Ms S expected to receive also 
wasnt unreasonable - Ms S was expecting to receive £2 a day for completing a small 
number of tasks. I can see why these factors would make her believe she was dealing with a 
legitimate company. 
I think the level of checks Id expect a customer to perform need to be proportionate, so I 
wouldnt necessarily have expected Ms S to have looked at whether P was a legitimate 
business by checking the Companies House website at this stage, particularly in light of the 
recommendation from her friend.  
Taking all of these factors into account, I dont consider Monzo has demonstrated that it can 
fairly rely on an exception to reimbursement in respect of this payment so it should refund it 
in full and add interest as set out below. 
Payment 2 - £3,000
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Ms 
S and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Monzo has raised about the 
legitimacy of this transaction are enough to support its position that it may rely on an 
exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code. I dont think Ms S had a reasonable basis 
for believing the payment was for genuine services or that the person she transacted with 
was legitimate. Ms S was making a more significant payment so ought reasonably to have 
taken more care when she made this payment.  
I have taken into account the following:
- Ms S hadnt received an income or made any withdrawals following her first payment 
to satisfy herself the scheme was genuine. - The amount Ms S was expecting to receive was too good to be true. Ms S said she 
was expecting to receive £100 a day after making the payment and the evidence I 
have seen says Ms S was promised £3,150 a month. This is a large amount of 
money to earn for unskilled task-based work and ought reasonably to have led to 
concern about its legitimacy. And nothing in the information I have been provided 
with suggests the monthly payment was time limited, making the opportunity even 
more implausible.  
- The only research Ms S says she did was to check P on the Companies House 
website. This showed that P was incorporated before Miss S made her first £100 
payment in January 2022. So, if Ms S had looked at this information before paying 
£3,000, I consider her findings ought to have led her to complete further checks and 
to question why shed already made payments to a company that wasnt incorporated 
when she did so. At the time Ms S made the £3,000 payment P had been 
incorporated for a few days only. 
- Ms S has said herself that because P was new there werent any reviews to check so 
a level of scepticism would be reasonable, particularly given the large sums on offer. 
- Ms S was paying a second new payee and didnt have a plausible explanation for 
this. The company she was paying had no connection to P (as didnt the company 
she paid when she made the first payment) but I cant see that any questions were 
asked about this.
- Ms S had no documentation in relation to the scheme. The only communication was 
via the app and was generic to all those involved with P. I havent been provided 
with, for example, a contract setting out the terms of the agreement between Ms S 
and P. 
Where a customer doesnt have a reasonable basis for believing they are making a 
legitimate payment a bank may still be liable to pay a proportion of their loss if it didnt meet 
one of the standards for firms set out in the CRM Code. One of these standards is to provide 
an effective warning when a firm identifies an authorised push payment scam risk in a 
payment journey.
Given the usual activity on Ms Ss account I consider the payment of £3,000 was unusual 
and Monzo should have provided an effective warning in respect of it. It was for a much 
larger sum than any previous transaction on Ms Ss account and was to a new payee. So 
Ive gone on to consider the warnings Monzo provided and whether they were effective as 
set out in the CRM Code. 
The new payee warning Monzo provided when the payment was made simply asked if the 
payment could be to someone who is trying to scam Ms S and provided a link to click if in 
doubt. The payment warning also asked if someone could be trying to scam Ms S and 
advised her to stop if she was told her account was at risk, an offer was too good to be true, 
she hadnt checked who she was paying or had been told to ignore the warning. 
Like the investigator, I dont consider these warnings were effective. They were generalised 
warnings that werent specific to the scam Ms S fell victim to. The warnings didnt provide 
detail or bring to life the type of scam Ms S fell victim to. 
As Monzo didnt provide an effective warning in respect of this payment it should reimburse 
half of it to Ms S. Monzo should also pay interest on this amount as set out below. 
Did Monzo do enough to recover Ms Ss funds?
Ive also considered Monzos actions once it was made aware of the scam. This service has 
contacted the firm that received Ms Ss £3,000 payment and seen evidence which shows 
that Ms Ss funds were removed from the account within minutes of the payment. This 
means that when Ms S reported the scam two days after her last transfer no funds remained in the receiving account. So I dont consider Monzo could have done more. The firm that 
received Ms Ss £100 payment hasnt responded to our information request but as I believe 
Ms S should be refunded this amount, Im issuing my decision without a response. 
Interest
The initial £100 payment came from Ms Ss current account. I think that were it not for the 
scam this money would have been spent on everyday expenditure and so Ms S should 
receive interest at the rate of 8% per annum simple on this refund. Before Ms S made the 
£3,000 payment, she transferred the same amount from her savings account to her current 
account. Were it not for the scam I think it more likely than not these funds would have 
remained in Ms Ss savings account and so she should receive savings account interest rate 
on the £1,500 refund I am awarding Ms S. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd should:
- Refund £100 plus interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date Monzo 
should have refunded Ms S under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
- Refund £1,500 (50% of £3,000) plus interest at the originating savings account rate 
from the date Monzo should have refunded Ms S under the CRM Code to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman