DRN-4060401
The complaint
F, a limited company, has complained that Arch Insurance (UK) Limited didnt settle in full its 
business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr H, a representative, has brought the complaint on Fs behalf.
What happened
F runs a museum. The museum is situated in a building owned by the local authority and is 
accessed by a narrow staircase. 
It held a commercial insurance policy issued by Arch. The policy ran from 23 June 2019 to 
22 June 2020. When the policy was renewed, cover for Covid-19 was excluded.
F made a claim to Arch after it was required to close the business under the Welsh Covid-19 
lockdown restrictions. 
Arch said it would assess Fs losses over an indemnity period running from 18 March 2020 
to 26 July 2020. Museums in Wales were allowed to reopen on 27 July 2020 subject to 
certain guidelines and restrictions. One of the requirements was to carry out a risk 
assessment before re-opening. Fs local authority which was also its landlord carried out the 
risk assessment and decided that the museum could not reopen safely in a way that 
mitigated the risk of exposure to Covid-19. The museum remained closed until May 2021.
As the maximum indemnity period under its policy was 12 months, F thought Arch should 
cover its losses for one year from 18 March 2020.
At first Arch said it wouldnt cover Fs losses after 27 July 2020. It later changed its position 
and said it would consider extending the indemnity period if F would send it a copy of the risk 
assessment showing that the closure had been due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority. F hasnt been able to obtain a copy of the risk assessment.
As Arch didnt waive the requirement for the risk assessment, F brought its complaint to this 
service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Arch accepted Fs claim under the following public authority clause in the policy which 
stated:
We will also pay for Your loss of gross profit and additional expenses up to the limit 
stated in the schedule as applicable resulting solely and directly from an interruption to 
Your business caused by the following 
e. Your inability to use the location due to restrictions imposed by a public authority 
following
ii) an occurrence of a notifiable human disease.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that the Welsh lockdowns amounted to restrictions 
imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of a notifiable human disease.
The indemnity period is the period of time during which the insurer will support the 
business following an insured event such as Covid-19. In this policy it is defined as:
The period beginning at the date of the insured damage, or the date the restriction is 
imposed, and lasting for the period during which Your income is affected as a result of 
such insured damage or restriction, but for no longer than the number of months 
shown in the schedule.
The schedule stated that the indemnity period was a maximum of 12 months.
Arch decided that the indemnity period started on 18 March 2020 being the date on which 
Fs premises were required to close under the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Business 
Closure) (Wales) Regulations 2020. I think that was reasonable.
I need to consider when the indemnity period should end. Under the policy wording the 
indemnity period ends when the Fs income ceased to be affected by the occurrence of a 
notifiable human disease which led to restrictions preventing the use of the premises being 
imposed by a public authority up to a maximum period of 12 months.
Before premises in Wales were allowed to reopen to the public on 27 July 2020, the Welsh 
Government passed the Health Protection (Coronavirus Restrictions) (No 5) (Wales) 
Regulations 2020 imposing an obligation on people responsible for premises open to the 
public to minimise the risk of exposure to Covid-19 on the premises and also the risk of 
spreading Covid-19 by those who had been on the premises. One of the obligations was to 
carry out a risk assessment of the risk of exposure to Covid-19 at the premises. Another was 
to take all reasonable measures to maintain 2 metres distance between people on the 
premises, improving hygiene, take measures to minimise face to face interaction and provide 
information about how to minimise the risk of exposure to Covid-19.
I think this shows that things had moved on from the original event causing the loss under 
the policy (the occurrence of Covid-19 leading to restrictions preventing the use of the 
premises) and by 27 July 2020 that same event could no longer be said to be solely and 
directly affecting Fs trade.
That means F isnt covered under the policy being considered here for later restrictions 
because the policy had ended in June 2020. 
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law and I think the 
judgments in the cases of Stonegate Pub Company Ltd v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd 
and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm) (Stonegate), Greggs PLC v Zurich Insurance PLC 
[2022] EWHC 2545 (Comm) (Greggs) and Various Eateries Trading Ltd v Allianz Insurance 
PLC [2002] EWHC 2549 (Comm) (VE) are helpful when considering this complaint. Thats 
because, one of the issues considered by the court was whether losses sustained beyond 
the expiry date of the policies were caused by occurrences of Covid-19 when the policy was 
in force. 
In Stonegate the relevant period of insurance came to an end on 30 April 2020. The court 
said (at paragraph 209):
At least after 4 July 2020 (or 6 July 2020 for Scotland and 13 July for Wales), when 
hospitality venues reopened, the government response, as I find from its nature and from what was said, was principally in response to the subsequent developments of the disease 
and the threat it posed from time to time. Those responses were not equally caused by the 
cases before the end of the Period of Insurance, but rather were predominantly caused by 
more recent cases, and the threat of future cases, at the time of the adoption of the measure 
in question. 
In VE the period of insurance came to an end on 28 September 2020. At paragraph 48 the 
court summarised the findings from Stonegate to reject VEs argument that losses 
throughout the maximum indemnity period had been caused concurrently and equally by all 
the cases of Covid-19 which had occurred within the relevant radius. The court said: 
(1) the decisions in the FCA Test Case do not establish that all cases of Covid-19, 
whenever occurring, were equal concurrent causes of the governmental actions and public 
response at any given time; 
(2) the fact that the cases of the disease occurred in Period of Insurance may have caused 
the later cases of the disease (because cases make cases) is not sufficient to say that the 
cases of the disease in the Period of Insurance were the proximate cause of governmental 
measures and public response after the Period of Insurance; and 
(3) the death blow or grip of the peril principle is inapplicable. 
In Greggs, the court said at paragraph 39: 
it appears highly doubtful that, on any view, there can be said to have been only one 
period of interruption or interference. It seems certain that the degree of interruption or 
interference with Greggs business changed over time between the first cases of Covid-19 
and the end of the Indemnity Period
Therefore, while an occurrence of Covid-19 led to restrictions causing F to suffer a loss in 
March 2020, I dont think this same occurrence affected Fs income from 27 July 2020. I 
think its fair to say that the indemnity period should end on the day before the first lockdown 
restrictions for museums were lifted in Wales, that is 26 July 2020. That means F isnt 
covered under the policy being considered here for later restrictions which led to the 
premises being closed due to a notifiable human disease because the policy had ended by 
that time.
In response Mr H referred me to paragraph 69 of the Stonegate case. He thought Fs case 
was different because the museum had only been required to close once from March 2020 
to May 2021 by reason of restrictions imposed by a public authority whereas in the cases Id 
mentioned the insureds ran multiple establishments subject to different restrictions at various 
times.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at paragraph 69 of the Stonegate judgment. In the judgment the term trigger 
refers to a matter giving rise to a right to claim under the policy. This was important in 
relation to the limits of cover under the policy. The judge said:
I should, however, clarify that I do not accept Stonegates case that there would have been 
multiple triggers in the case of an Insured location which once closed stayed closed but 
where the closure was enforced by the reiteration, continuation or renewal of regulations 
which were, materially, to the same effect. The trigger is enforced closure, and in my view, 
there will be one such trigger unless and until the Location opens and is then closed again.I think the difference in Fs case is that it hasnt been able to show that its premises 
remained closed from 27 July 2020 because of regulations materially to the same effect as 
those that introduced the first lockdown. They stayed closed because of Fs landlords risk 
assessment and neither F nor Arch know what that risk assessment said. I think it was 
reasonable of Arch to say that it would consider extending the indemnity period if F would 
send it a copy of the risk assessment showing that the closure had been due to restrictions 
imposed by a public authority.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman