DRN-3233610
The complaint
Mr C complains through his representative that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent him money on a 
high interest loan which he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
AvantCredit provided a loan to Mr C on 29 March 2016, for £19,800 payable over 60 months 
at the rate of £521 a month. Mr C paid the instalments on the loan up until August 2020, 
when he agreed payment holidays with AvantCredit. He resumed payments in March 2021. 
He complained that the loan was unaffordable to him.
AvantCredit considered Mr Cs application, carried an independent verification of his income 
and a detailed credit check, and obtained and verified a bank statement. It said it had 
assessed that the loan was affordable and sustainable.
Mr Cs representative sent us his bank statements for the period from November 2015 up to 
and including July 2016, and his file which they had obtained from AvantCredit.
Based on Mr Cs declared income, and outgoings and his credit commitments as disclosed 
by his credit report, our adjudicator said that the loan was likely to have been unaffordable. 
He noted that Mr Cs disposable income wouldnt have been sufficient to meet the 
instalments required under the loan agreement.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Cs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that AvantCredit had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Here Mr C was taking out a high interest loan, over 60 months, for a substantial amount. The 
instalments required a substantial commitment from him. So I think that AvantCredit needed 
to carry out a thorough assessment for the loan. 
AvantCredits assessment included considering a detailed credit report, and verifying Mr Cs 
income. The said credit report revealed that Mr C had a very high level of indebtedness on 
credit cards, of over £15,300. He also had two mail order accounts of £1,955 and £8,625. 
The total repayments required were about £1,224. Mr C had declared a monthly income of 
around £4,100, which does show in his bank statements, and expenses of £3,300 a month. 
Adding the credit commitments to that figure, produces a disposable income figure of just 
under £176, insufficient to meet the instalments under the loan.
This might have been sufficient if Mr C was going to use the loan to pay off his credit 
commitments. But its clear from his bank statements that he didnt do this, and AvantCredit 
doesnt appear to have enquired what he needed the loan for.
I can see from AvantCredits notes that it verified Mr Cs income at £11,169. Its note of 29 
March 2016 said:
Email customer and inform them of new terms available, issue loan if customer does not 
respond by end of day. Cust claimed £4,400.00 of income on app, specialist verified 
£11,169.70 of income via Yodlee, which is £6,769.70 difference. Loan contract is valid: 
existing loan contract is for £19,800.00, 60 months, 21.9%, new terms available are 
£20,000.00, 60 months, approximately 22%.
The next note says the loan was approved, and Mr C signed the contract without the question of the discrepancy in income being resolved. Indeed AvantCredit appears to have 
been willing to issue the loan without resolving that query.
According to the nine months of bank statements Mr C provided, he did receive a regular 
salary of around £4,100. There is one payment of £11,169 which only appears on one 
months statement, and appears to have been used mainly to make a one-off bill payment. 
I think, bearing in mind the income Mr C himself declared as verified by his bank statements, 
the figure for income which AvantCredit should have used to assess the affordability was the 
lower one of £4,100.
I think that AvantCredit carried out proportionate checks. But I think those checks revealed 
that the loan payments were unsustainable. So I dont think it made a fair lending decision.   
Putting things right
As to the appropriate remedy, Mr C has had the capital sum so he should repay that. But 
AvantCredit should refund the interest and any other charges on the loan. It should:
 Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr C as payments towards the capital amount of £19,800.
If Mr C has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8%* simple 
interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, AvantCredit should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr C.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman