DRN-4416353
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about Stellantis Financial Services UK Limited trading as PSA Finance 
UK (PSA). He says they shouldnt have lent to him as the repayments were unaffordable.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr M took out a hire purchase agreement with PSA to finance the purchase 
of a vehicle. He borrowed £6,508 and paid a deposit of £1,200  the cash price of the 
vehicle was £7,708. The agreement required Mr M to make 59 monthly repayments of 
£133.79, and then a final instalment of £134.79. Mr M made all of his repayments on time, 
by direct debit, and settled the agreement early, in January 2023.
In late 2022, Mr M complained to PSA, saying he thought they didnt consider his financial 
situation at the time of lending to him and that it was irresponsible for PSA to have accepted 
his application for finance.
In response, PSA said customers have a responsibility to ensure they understand what 
theyre agreeing to. And they said Mr M had signed his contract which urged him to consider 
affordability before proceeding. In terms of their decision to lend to Mr M, PSA said theyd 
used credit scoring and current account turnover information to assess a customers ability 
to repay a loan in a sustainable way. They said there were no indicators that Mr M was over 
indebted or had other adverse indicators. And he was a homeowner in stable employment 
which suggested stability. PSA offered Mr M the opportunity to return the vehicle and end 
the agreement. Although Mr M appears to have initially accepted PSAs response, he then 
brought his complaint to our service shortly after settling the agreement.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said he 
didnt think PSA had done proportionate checks  and if they had, theyd have realised the 
agreement wasnt affordable for Mr M. So, he said, they should refund him any amounts hed 
paid in excess of a fair usage amount. 
PSA werent happy. They said Mr M worked in a managerial position in a finance company, 
so he wasnt a financially unsophisticated applicant and would have been aware of the 
responsibilities and implications of entering into the agreement. They also pointed out Mr M 
had made all of his repayments on time. They added that if Mr M had reconsidered the 
affordability of the loan after accepting it he could have contacted them with his concerns 
and theyd have looked into it. Finally PSA said Mr M suggested it was essential that he had 
a car  so if theyd declined to lend to Mr M then hed have sourced a vehicle from 
elsewhere or needed to spend money on other transport. They confirmed they wanted an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint  and its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain more below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
PSA have made several comments about a customers responsibility to understand the 
information available and take responsibility for their decisions. But this does not override the 
responsibilities of a firm. In my decision Ive considered whether PSA did what was required 
of them, rather than whether Mr M did what was required of him.
Did PSA carry out proportionate checks?
PSA said they:
reviewed Mr Ms credit file; and
reviewed his current account turnover data to assess his income and outgoings.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, and what PSA found. The total amount payable was just over 
£9,000, but the term of the loan was five years. 
PSA told us their credit check showed Mr M had secured loans of around £103,000, two 
unsecured loans totalling around £7,500 and two credit cards, with a balance totalling 
around £5,300. They also noted he had taken out a number of payday loans previously but 
the latest one had ended in August 2018, over a year before his application to PSA. 
PSA also said Mr M had been in his job within insurance for over 30 years, so he was 
considered to be in stable employment and financially astute. But this isnt supported by his 
credit history  the number of payday loans should have been an indicator to PSA that Mr M 
might have difficulties managing his finance.  
PSA have provided very limited information about the current account turnover analysis. I 
cant see that they made any other efforts to understand what Mr Ms income would be. 
CONC 5.2A.15R requires a firm to take reasonable steps to determine the amount or make 
an estimate of the customers current income (unless they can demonstrate that its obvious 
that the customer is able to make repayments).  PSA havent demonstrated that it was 
obvious that Mr M would be able to make repayments. And they havent demonstrated that 
they took steps to determine the amount of Mr Ms income. 
On balance Im not satisfied PSA did proportionate checks before deciding to lend to Mr M. 
He had a significant amount of debt, had used payday loans regularly until fairly recently, 
and PSA made no attempt to understand his income or expenditure, instead relying on an 
automated score.
If PSA had carried out proportionate checks, what would they have found?
A proportionate check would have involved PSA finding out more about Mr Ms financial 
commitments. income and expenditure to determine whether hed be able to make the 
repayments in a sustainable way, rather than assuming his income was sufficient.
Ive looked at statements for Mr Ms bank accounts for the three months leading up to his 
finance application. Im not saying PSA needed to obtain bank statements as part of their lending checks. But in the absence of other information, bank statements provide a good 
indication of Mr Ms commitments and expenditure at the time the lending decision was 
made. 
Having done so, I can see Mr Ms income was regular, at around £2,200 each month. His 
monthly non-discretionary expenditure was a similar level, made up of mortgage payments 
of £736, energy bills and council tax totalling £290, TV and internet services totalling £130, 
car insurance and road tax totalling around £140, other insurances totalling around £50 and 
loan repayments totalling around £750. This amounts to around £2,170 and doesnt include 
anything for food, fuel, and other essentials. Adding on the repayments under the PSA 
agreement would have caused Mr Ms non-discretionary expenditure to exceed his income. 
It follows that I dont think the agreement was affordable for Mr M and if PSA had done 
proportionate checks they wouldnt have been able to fairly decide to lend to Mr M.
I appreciate PSA say Mr M has made his repayments on time and settled the agreement 
early so it cant have been unaffordable. But this takes no account of any additional debt 
Mr M may have had to take out in order to do so.
Putting things right
Because I dont think PSA should have approved the loan, I dont think its fair for them to 
charge any interest or other charges under the agreement. But Mr M has had use of the car 
so he should pay for that. To settle Mr Ms complaint, PSA should do the following:
Refund all the payments Mr M has made in excess of £7,708, representing the 
original cash price of the car. PSA should add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding the 
agreement.
If PSA consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they should 
provide Mr M a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Mr M can reclaim that 
amount, assuming he is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Stellantis Financial Services UK 
Limited trading as PSA Finance UK need to take the steps outlined above to settle the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman