DRN-1973236
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about the settlement Ageas Insurance Limited has paid for a medical 
expenses claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
Theyre represented by Mr C.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out a single trip travel insurance policy by phone in February 2019. They 
went through a medical screening and declared some medical conditions and paid extra for 
these conditions to be covered. They travelled abroad in May 2019. Unfortunately, Mr A 
became very unwell shortly after they arrived and was taken to hospital for treatment. A 
claim was made on Mr and Mrs As travel insurance policy.
Ageas looked into the claim. It got medical information from the treating hospital and it asked 
for Mr As medical records from his GP. It also needed to listen to the sales call between Mr 
and Mrs A and its sales agent. There was some delay in obtaining this information, so Ageas 
wasnt immediately able to confirm cover. 
However, once the information was received, Ageas noted that Mr A had some medical 
conditions that he hadnt declared to it when he took out the policy. It got in touch with Mr As 
GP to look into what Mr A understood about his medical history. It accepted that Mr A hadnt 
known about some of those conditions, so it didnt take them into account. But it thought Mr 
A had most likely known about two conditions  hypothyroidism and oesophageal varices 
and so it said he should have told it about them when he went through medical screening.
Ageas calculated the premium it said it wouldve charged Mr and Mrs A if theyd correctly 
declared all of Mr As conditions. It said it wouldve charged Mr and Mrs A around £1450 for 
their policy, but theyd only paid around £715. So it said Mr and Mrs A had paid 51% of the 
premium they ought to have paid. And it would therefore pay 51% of Mr As medical bills, 
together with a payment of £25 representing a 51% contribution for hospital benefit.
Mr C complained on Mr and Mrs As behalf. They were unhappy with the way the claim had 
been handled. Ageas had given conflicting reasons for the delay in progressing the claim  
blaming chasing the treating hospital and GP for reports and delays in getting the sales call 
from its IT department. While looking into the complaint, Ageas had wrongly referred to Mrs 
A failing to declare all of Mr As conditions, which Mr C said had caused her a great deal of 
distress. Mr A hadnt been aware of the conditions he hadnt declared, hed answered 
Ageas questions honestly. They also felt that Ageas hadnt correctly calculated the hospital 
benefit payment Mr A was due. 
Ageas maintained it was only liable to pay 51% of Mr As claim. But it acknowledged thered 
been some mistakes in the way it handled the claim. So it offered Mr and Mrs A £150 
compensation. As Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy with Ageas handling of their claim, Mr C 
asked us to look into their complaint. Mr C also felt that Ageas sought to intimidate elderly 
people and he felt that it should undertake investigations with a potential policyholders GP 
about their health and prescriptions before offering insurance.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs As complaint should be upheld. He felt the delays in 
moving the claim along had been down to Ageas needing to wait for information from the 
treating hospital, GP and from its own IT department. He didnt think Ageas had misled Mr 
and Mrs A as to the cause of the delay. He acknowledged Ageas had incorrectly suggested 
Mrs A had answered the medical screening questions on Mr As behalf, but he was satisfied 
Ageas had given a reasonable explanation for this and had apologised. Hed listened to the 
sales call and he felt the call handler had clearly explained the importance of telling Ageas 
about all existing medical conditions. He was satisfied Mr A hadnt told Ageas about some of 
his medical conditions, so he felt it was fair for Ageas to settle the claim based on a 
proportionate basis.
The investigator also concluded that the hospital benefit payment had been calculated 
correctly. And he explained to Mr C that this service cant tell a financial business to change 
its processes or the way it operates.
Mr C disagreed on Mr and Mrs As behalf. He responded in detail to our investigators view. 
Ive summarised his main points:
He felt the investigator had been biased and hadnt investigated some of the key 
parts of the complaint;
Ageas had misled them as to the cause of the delay in progressing the claim  it was 
only because hed challenged Ageas about the reason for it that it admitted it was 
down to an IT issue;
Ageas had instructed them to ask Mrs A why shed failed to declare Mr As 
conditions. Itd lied and said itd listened to the calls. This had caused Mrs A 
substantial distress and had ruined the holiday;
Mr A hadnt been aware of his conditions  hed asked to switch medications, but he 
didnt know what hed been taking the tablets for. He couldnt declare conditions he 
didnt know about;
He felt it was within our power to challenge malpractice by financial businesses that 
leads to financial loss and that our role is to consider whats fair and reasonable;
The compensation Ageas had offered wasnt anywhere near close enough for the 
level of distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs A had suffered.
The complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the settlement Ageas has paid Mr and Mrs A is fair and reasonable. 
Ill explain why.
First, while Ive summarised Mr Cs detailed response to the investigator, Id like to reassure 
him that Ive carefully considered everything both parties have said and provided. 
Its important I explain the role of this service. We look into individual complaints brought by 
consumers to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of that particular case. 
I have no power to tell a financial business to change its internal processes or procedures. 
Or to compel it to obtain external evidence when deciding whether or not to offer insurance. 
Its generally down to an individual insurer to decide what evidence to take into account 
when it underwrites a policy and decides whether or not to offer any cover. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs A, as Im aware that a key part of their 
complaint was their hope that Id be in a position to direct Ageas to change the way it 
conducts the medical screening process. 
I think the remainder of Mr and Mrs As complaint is centred on two key issues. Has Ageas 
settled the claim fairly? And is the compensation its offered for its service errors fair and 
reasonable? Ill consider each issue in turn.
Has Ageas settled the claim fairly?
When Mr and Mrs A took out the policy by phone, they were asked information about 
themselves, their trip and their medical conditions. Ageas used this information to decide 
whether or not to insure Mr and Mrs A and if so, on what terms.
Ageas says that Mr A didnt correctly answer the questions he was asked during the medical 
screening. This means the principles set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant. So I think its fair and reasonable to apply 
these principles to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs As claim. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act. A qualifying 
misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care to answer an insurers 
questions correctly and provides inaccurate information. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider 
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. So I listened closely to the 
sales call between Mr A and Ageas to find out what questions he was asked during the 
medical screening.
Mr A declared that hed suffered from bladder cancer; he had type two diabetes and that he 
took statins. Ageas call handler explained to Mr A that he needed to disclose all existing 
conditions. They explained that if Mr A was unsure whether a condition was existing and 
ought to be declared, he should speak to his GP. I think this clearly signposted to Mr A that if 
he wasnt sure what he needed to tell Ageas about, he ought to speak to his GP to find out 
about his health.
The call handler went on to ask Mr A: Do you have any other existing medical conditions at 
all? Mr A answered No, I dont.
Ageas maintains that in addition to the conditions that Mr A did declare, he should also have 
disclosed hypothyroidism and oesophageal varices. So Ive looked at Mr As medical 
records; Ageas investigations and thought about what Mr Cs told us about Mr As medical 
history to decide whether I think he took reasonable care to answer this question. 
Mr As notes show that he suffered from a number of other conditions that he didnt declare. 
Ageas spoke to his medical practice though to understand what Mr A was likely to have 
known about and ought to have known he should declare. I think this was a very reasonable 
response from Ageas and I can see that based on this information (and information from its 
medical team), it didnt include some of these conditions in its retrospective screening.
But having spoken to the GP practice, Ageas maintains that Mr A shouldve declared 
hypothyroidism and oesophageal varices. Mr As medical records indicate that hed been 
prescribed medication for hypothyroidism around 15 years before he took out the policy and 
had been taking it since then. The notes also show that Mr A was diagnosed with 
oesophageal varices in November 2018  about four months before he took out the policy. The GP practice also told Ageas that Mr A had asked to come off the medication hed been 
prescribed for this condition two months later. 
Based on this evidence, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to conclude both that Mr A most 
likely knew about these diagnoses and that he shouldve disclosed them during medical 
screening. While Ive thought carefully about what Mr C said about Mr As awareness of his 
medical history, I think Ageas took fair steps to investigate Mr As medical history and his 
likely awareness of his conditions. And it seems more likely than not that Mr A ought to have 
been aware of hypothyroidism, given his long-term prescription and his oesophageal varices, 
given hed only been diagnosed with it a short time before. 
So I think its clear these conditions do fall within the scope of Ageas question. And 
considering everything, I think Ageas question was clear enough that Mr A shouldve been 
prompted to tell it about these conditions.
Overall, I think Mr A did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I think Ageas 
is entitled to apply the relevant remedy available to it under the Act. But Ageas doesnt think 
Mr A deliberately sought to mislead it about his health. It concluded he made a careless 
mistake. Based on the available medical evidence and the clarity of the question Mr A was 
asked, I think this was a reasonable conclusion for Ageas to reach.
CIDRA says, in cases of careless misrepresentation, if the insurer wouldve still entered into 
the contract but wouldve charged a higher premium, then it is entitled to proportionately 
reduce the amount to be paid on the claim. Mr A paid around £715 for his insurance policy. 
Ageas sent us evidence which showed that if hed also declared oesophageal varices and 
hypothyroidism, it wouldve charged a premium of around £1450. This means Mr and Mrs A 
paid 51% of the premium they ought to have paid.  I think it was fair and reasonable for 
Ageas to limit its settlement to paying this proportion of their claim. So Im not telling Ageas 
to pay anything more.
Mr C also considers that Ageas hasnt properly considered Mr and Mrs As claim for hospital 
benefit. He believes the daily limit for benefit is £500. So Ive looked carefully at the policy 
terms. Section six of the policy sets out the cover the policy provides. Underneath the 
heading, it states Up to £500 per insured person. The policy goes on to say:
If you fall ill or are injured during the period of insurance, you will receive £25 (up to £500) 
for each full 24 hours that you spend as an in-patient in a hospital outside the United 
Kingdom and the country where you normally live.
The Summary of Cover section also sets out the applicable overall policy limits. The 
hospital benefit section provides a limit of £500/£25 per day.
I think the policy is sufficiently clear, when read together, that Ageas pays £25 for each 24-
hour period a policyholder spends in hospital up to an overall limit of £500. The total limit 
would be equal to a policyholder spending 20 full days in hospital. In this case, Mr A spent 
two days in hospital. But as Ageas was only liable to pay 51% of the claim, it paid Mr A one 
days benefit. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances.
Overall, Im satisfied Ageas has settled Mr As claim fairly.
Is the compensation Ageas has offered to settle the claim fair and reasonable?Its clear that Ageas has made some mistakes in the way it handled Mr and Mrs As claim. It 
did wrongly tell them that itd been Mrs A whod answered Mr As medical screening 
questions incorrectly. I dont doubt that this caused Mrs A distress and upset, given she 
hadnt answered any questions relating to Mr As health. And I think it was right for Ageas to 
recognise this and apologise to Mr and Mrs A for this error. I dont think though that Ageas 
set out to mislead Mr and Mrs A about this. Its internal notes do indicate that two different 
people had listened to different sections of the sales call  one to Mr As answers and one to 
Mrs As answers. And the person whod gone on to refer to the notes while looking into the 
claim had simply misunderstood what was written.
Ive also thought about the cause of the delays in the claim progressing. I appreciate Mr C 
feels Mr and Mrs A were given wrong information about this and that Ageas had sought to 
blame the treating hospital and the GP for the delays. It was only when he challenged it that 
it let him know it was also waiting for its IT department to release a copy of the sales call 
recording. 
I can see from Ageas notes that it made multiple attempts to contact Mr As GP to get the 
medical records. It was also chasing up the treating hospital for a copy of Mr As medical 
report during this period. At the same time, it was chasing up its IT department to release a 
copy of the call. The GP records were received on 16 May 2019, the medical report was 
received until 21 May 2019 and the sales call was listened to on the same day. So Im 
satisfied that even without the delays in releasing the call, Ageas wouldve still experienced 
some delays in getting the information it needed from the GP and the hospital.
Ageas has offered Mr and Mrs A £150 compensation for the mistakes it made. I appreciate 
Mr C feels strongly that this is nowhere near enough. But while I do accept Ageas caused 
Mrs A unnecessary distress, I do think overall that much of the inevitable stress Mr and Mrs 
A suffered was down to Mr As illness. I think £150 is a fair amount to recognise the 
additional distress and inconvenience Ageas caused Mr and Mrs A. So Im not telling Ageas 
to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that the settlement Ageas has offered 
is fair.
Ageas Insurance Limited must now pay Mr and Mrs A £150 compensation if it hasnt already 
done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman