DRN-3052348
The complaint
Mrs J and Mrs D complain about the settlement offered by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
for claims made under two landlord insurance policies and a home insurance policy. 
Theyre also unhappy with UKIs handling of the claims.
What happened
Mrs J owns some properties. Ill be referring to three of them within this decision. Two of 
the properties are rented out (Ill call them Property One and Property Two), and the 
other is used as an office (Ill call that Property Three). All three properties are covered 
under separate policy schedules (the policy for Property Two is jointly held between 
Mrs J and Mrs D), and all include accidental damage cover.
Mrs Js neighbour installed fences in their back garden. Mrs J thought the vibrations from 
the installation of the fence posts caused damage to the roofs of her properties and made 
a claim on that basis. Initially, UKI turned down the claims, though it later accepted thered 
been accidental damage.
UKI covered the costs of roof repairs to Property One, and also paid for loss of rent whilst 
the tenant had moved out. UKI also paid for storage costs for the contents of Property 
Three.
Repairs to a retaining wall were due to take place, but there were some access issues to 
the neighbouring property. UKI therefore decided to pay a cash settlement to complete 
the repairs.
After the tenant moved back into Property One, UKI stopped paying loss of rent. UKI 
also stopped paying storage costs for contents in Property Three as it said these were 
only payable whilst repairs were taking place, but it couldnt continue to pay for storage 
when Property Three didnt have contents cover.
However, further water ingress then occurred to Property One. Mrs J thought this was due 
to the removal of the fence posts, which she said had caused further vibrations and further 
damage to the properties.
Mrs J provided UKI with quotes to complete the repairs, but UKI thought these were 
too high. It also wasnt sure why water was able to enter Property One again. UKI 
therefore arranged for an independent surveyor to carry out an inspection to see 
what repairs were still needed.
Following the inspection, UKI thought the only outstanding repairs attributable to the 
vibrations from the fence posts were the replacement of a few tiles on the roof of 
Property Three. UKI therefore offered Mrs J a cash settlement of £486.96 for this.
Mrs J arranged for her own surveyor to carry out an inspection, and that surveyor 
thought there had been further damage to the properties caused by the removal of the 
fence posts. Mrs J therefore complained to UKI about its cash settlement, and its 
handling of her claim.
UKI maintained its decision to offer a cash settlement of £486.96, though it accepted 
thered been minor delays with the claim. It offered Mrs J £100 compensation for that. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs J brought a complaint to this service.
Initially, our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had 
been reasonable for UKI to rely upon its surveyors findings. However, after considering 
Mrs Js surveyors report, she changed her view. Our investigator still thought that UKI 
wasnt responsible for much of the repairs to the properties, but she did think Mrs Js 
surveyors evidence supported that there was an ingress of water as well as some other 
damage caused by the removal of the fence posts. She thought UKI ought to deal with 
those repairs, in line with the recommendations given by Mrs Js surveyor.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 August 2021. Heres what I said:
In May 2018, Mrs Js chartered surveyor (Mr S) carried out an inspection. He observed 
that a section of tiles on a roof were misaligned, and thought they were either poorly laid 
or had suffered movement from wind or vibration. There was also a split in the lead 
flashing, and minor damage to the tiles. Mr S also noted that the flint retaining wall had 
badly eroded mortar or was very brittle, and Mrs J had advised him that flints apparently 
fell away when the fence posts were being installed. He said there was no doubt that 
damp was finding its way into one of the buildings - around the roof lights.
Mr S thought there was no other ready explanation, other than vibrations, for the sudden 
appearance of the mortar deterioration (to the wall) and resultant ingress of moisture (to 
the properties). Mr S further said that given the age of the fabric and worn and eroded 
state of the pointing in the flint wall, it would come as no surprise if flints fell out during the 
installation process (of the fence posts), and he noted sundry gaps and evidence of 
material having recently fallen out. He made various recommendations for repairs.
Based on Mr Ss report, UKI accepted thered been accidental damage to the roof of 
Property One. It arranged for the roof repairs to take place in 2018. Whilst the repairs 
were taking place, heavy rain was able to enter the property which meant the tenant 
needed to move out. UKI covered the loss of rent.
In April 2019, UKIs loss adjuster visited the property and said the repairs were 
substantially complete, except for capping stones to the retaining wall and the repairs to 
the wall itself. Those repairs couldnt be done because the loss adjuster said that some 
substantial fence posts remained in place. Though later that month, the loss adjuster said 
that Mrs J had advised it that the neighbour had removed the fence posts.
Then in June 2019, UKIs loss adjuster said that repairs to the wall couldnt take place 
because there were overgrown shrubs growing into the wall on the neighbours side, 
which were allowing damp into the property. It was after this that UKI decided to offer 
Mrs J a cash settlement for the repairs to the wall that couldnt take place.
However, Mrs J then advised UKI that the roof to Property One was leaking again. She 
thought this was due to the removal of the fence posts. Mrs J also thought the roofs to 
the other properties had been damaged at the same time. UKI appointed a surveyor 
(Mr C) to carry out an inspection.
Mr C inspected the property in January 2020. He said a roofing contractor would need 
to replace the lead cover flashing to the roof of Property Three, and re-align a few of 
the pantiles. Also, the contractor would need to locate the entry points where rainwater was gaining entry via the rooflights to both Property One and Property Two.
Mr C could see no external damage to Property One or Property Two, however he said 
the lead cover flashing to the rear parapet wall of Property Three was split in at least two 
places. There was also an open joint between the lead flashing and the mortar joint to the 
rear of the roof for Property Three. Mr C noticed that some of the tiles did not fit neatly 
with adjoining tiles in a few locations, and said it had been suggested that those tiles had 
been dislodged due to the vibration from the installation of the fence posts.
Mr C noted there was ongoing rainwater ingress appearing at the join between the frame 
of the windows and the softwood linings in Property One and Property Two. He thought 
the source needed to be located externally and appropriable remedial measures taken. 
Mr C observed patches of damp at the end of an internal wall, which he thought were 
caused by condensation. He was of the view that this could be addressed with a balance 
of heating and ventilation.
However, Mr C concluded that the only damage due to vibration from the installation of 
the timber poles was the displacement of a few pantiles to the roof of Property Three. 
Based on Mr Cs findings, UKI offered Mrs J a cash settlement of £486.96 to carry out 
that repair.
In February 2020, Mrs J arranged for her own surveyor (Mrs R) to carry out an 
inspection. Mrs R said the majority of the fence posts had been removed from the 
ground rather than sawn (though she noted a few remained in place). She said that 
since the fence posts had been removed, water ingress had occurred, and damp issues 
were evident within the properties.
Mrs R couldnt view the external condition of the roof of Property One because it was 
covered in a tarpaulin at the time. Though she said it could be seen that water ingress 
had recently occurred as the exposed rafters inside showed obvious signs of water 
staining.
Mrs R said that Property Three showed obvious signs of cracking and severe damage 
caused by damp issues. She thought it was likely that the damp proof course had been 
compromised if the installation of the large fence posts hadnt been carried out correctly 
(driven in at an angle or forcefully removed). Also, the roof tiles to Property Three 
appeared loose and misaligned, and she thought it was a possibility that this had been 
caused due to the vibration of the posts being installed and removed.
Mrs R noticed in Property Two that water staining was evident, as water was tracking 
down the original rafters affecting their condition. She said that on external inspection, 
the lead flashing to the parapet wall was in poor condition, as was the brickwork pointing. 
Also, the render to Property Two and Property Three had noticeable splits and needed 
repair. Mrs R thought the issues at the properties were the result of damage caused by 
the removal of the fence posts. She said it was unclear how long the tanking at Property 
Three had been damaged for, and whether this was damaged during the installation of 
the fence posts or their removal, but she said it was clear that it had failed.
Finally, Mrs R said the roofs had been disturbed since their repair, again, due to the 
removal of the posts. She thought it was less conclusive how the damage to the render 
had occurred for Properties Two and Three, but she said it wouldnt be out of the question 
for it to have deteriorated as a result of the vibration caused by the removal of the fence 
posts.
UKI has disregarded Mrs Rs evidence, as it says the fence posts werent removed and were instead sawn off. Its referred to photos taken of the fence posts by its loss adjuster 
which show this.
We shared those photos with Mrs J, and she explains that the fence posts behind 
Property One were pulled out which she thinks caused the damage to the roof. And 
because of that, the fence posts behind Property Three were sawn off (so the same 
thing didnt happen to that roof), and then pulled out. She says the fence posts are no 
longer in the garden, and has provided a photo to support that.
The photo that Mrs J has provided only shows a small section of the garden, so it isnt 
clear whether all the fence posts have now been removed. I note that Mrs R did make 
reference to some fence posts remaining in place in the garden, but it also appears to be 
the case that some were removed when she carried out her inspection. So I dont agree 
with UKI that Mrs Rs evidence ought to be disregarded. I would assume that UKIs photos 
of the fence posts still in situ were probably taken by its loss adjuster in April 2019, shortly 
before Mrs J says they were removed.
Roofs
Mrs J arranged for her contractor to do roof repairs to Property One in 2018 and UKI paid 
for that. However, the roof started leaking again. Mrs J told UKI this happened in mid-
2019, after the fence posts had been removed. In February 2020, Mrs J paid for the roof 
on Property One to be repaired again.
UKI thinks Mrs Js contractor didnt repair the roof properly in 2018, and that the repair 
failed. If that is what happened, then UKI wouldnt be responsible for covering the cost of 
the second repair as the policy excludes faulty or defective workmanship.
Mr C inspected Property Ones roof, but didnt think there was any damage caused by 
the fence posts.
When Mrs R inspected the property, she couldnt inspect the roof to Property One 
because it was covered up at the time. She did say that there was evidence of water 
ingress, but we dont know if that happened because of damage caused by the removal of 
the fence posts, or because the initial repair failed.
However, Mrs J has provided evidence from the roofing contractor (who was a different 
contractor to the one that did the 2018 repair). The information from the new contractor 
was that theyd found the lead flashing had been moved from the parapet wall due to the 
force of the posts being removed by the neighbours, and this impacted on the retaining 
wall. They said the result of this was that water ingress was tracking behind the lead work 
and then down through to the windows. The contractor said they replaced the flashing 
and sealed it back to the fall. The contractor made no suggestion of the previous repair 
failing.
I find the contractors evidence to be the most persuasive here. Im therefore satisfied 
that Mrs J has shown that the roof to Property One was damaged by the removal of the 
fence posts. I therefore intend to require UKI to reimburse Mrs R for the cost of the roof 
repairs in 2020, and the resulting internal damage caused by the water ingress.
In respect of Property Two, Mrs R didnt specifically refer to the roof. Mr C thought that 
rainwater was able to gain entry via the rooflights, but he didnt see any external 
damage. Mr C thought a roofing contractor ought to take appropriate remedial 
measures to stop the water ingress. Though he didnt think the issue had been caused by the installation or removal of the fence posts.
Mrs Js roofing contractor provided a quote for repairs to the roof of Property Two, but 
didnt comment on the damage or what may have caused this. However, we know that 
the contractor thought the removal of the fence posts had allowed the rainwater to enter 
the rooflights in Property One. And crucially, Mr C noted that the same issues affecting 
Property One (rainwater ingress through the rooflights) were affecting Property Two.
Given that the rainwater was only able to enter Properties One and Two after the fence 
posts had been removed, and Im satisfied that Mrs J has shown that the removal of 
the fence posts caused the water ingress into Property One, I think its reasonable to 
say that the same issue likely affected Property Two in the same way. Therefore I also 
intend to require UKI to put this right.
In respect of Property Three, Mrs R and Mr C both noticed some misaligned tiles on the 
roof, which they thought could be attributable to the fence posts installation/removal. 
Though I would assume that the tiles were likely damaged when the fence posts were 
installed, given that Mrs J has confirmed that the fence posts behind Property Three were 
sawn before they were removed so that the roof wasnt damaged.
UKI has already accepted liability for the cost of roof repairs to Property Three, which I 
think is fair. It offered Mrs J £486.96 to put right the damage, and I have no reason to 
believe this amount isnt fair.
Damp
Mrs R says that Property Three showed severe damage caused by damp. She thought 
this was the result of the damp proof course being compromised by the fence posts 
installation or removal.
However, UKI says that there was an ongoing issue with damp in the floors and walls 
when its loss adjuster became involved in August 2018, and it doesnt think this was 
caused by the fence posts. It instead thinks there was rising damp.
Given the conflicting opinions over the cause of the damp, I think UKI should arrange for 
Property Three to be inspected by a damp expert to determine why the property suffers 
from damp. If the damp is found to be caused by accidental damage and is covered under 
the policy, UKI should deal with the claim to put this right and also reimburse Mrs J for her 
storage costs.
UKI said that it stopped paying Mrs Js storage costs for contents held in Property 
Three after the roof to Property One was repaired, because she didnt have contents 
insurance cover. However, Ive checked the policy schedule for Property Three and 
Mrs J did have contents insurance cover.
Retaining wall
Initially, UKI appeared to include the damaged retaining wall under the claim. That was 
based on Mr Ss view that the wall was damaged when the fence posts were installed. 
However, it later relied upon the opinion of Mr C, who said he was shown a section of the 
wall where two or three flints were missing, and it was suggested (presumably by Mrs J) 
that they came loose due to the vibrations from the installation of the fence posts. Mr C 
thought this was a maintenance issue as he said the wall was in need of general repair.
I note that Mr S said the wall had been partially repointed (largely the top seven courses) but instead of a genuine lime putty mortar being used, a cement mortar was instead used. 
He thought this would be brittle and ran the risk of falling out if vibration was created. He 
observed that other areas of the wall hadnt been repointed at all, and said the mortar was 
badly eroded or very brittle. Mr S later said that given the age of the fabric and worn and 
eroded state of the pointing, it would come as no surprise if flints fell out during the 
installation of the fence.
Mrs R commented on the brickwork pointing to the wall being in poor condition.
It seems that all three experts were in agreement that the pointing in the flint wall was of 
poor condition (and Mr S also thought the repointing that had been done wasnt with the 
correct material). Based on that, I think it was reasonable for UKI not to cover the wall 
repairs and instead conclude that this was a maintenance issue, as the policy excludes 
wear and tear as well as defective designs or materials.
Delays
UKI has accepted it caused some minor delays, which I would agree with. This wasnt a 
straightforward claim as it involved three properties, and from what Ive seen, UKI 
progressed it largely as Id expect, though there were occasions where it couldve 
updated Mrs J more frequently. I think the £100 compensation if offered was 
reasonable.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments they wished to make 
UKI responded to say it thought it was a flawed approach to rely so heavily on an image 
showing the removal of the fence posts, when it wasnt clear from the image whether all 
the fence posts were removed. It asked for the opportunity to discuss the matter with its 
loss adjuster, but we didnt hear back from UKI with any further comments before the 
expiry of the extended deadline we allowed. 
Mrs J responded and made a number of points. I havent included all of these here, and 
instead have only included the following main points:
Mrs J thinks the damage to the roof of Property Three is more extensive than 
UKI had thought, and that the repairs will cost more than the £486.96 that UKI 
had estimated for this.
There is still loss of rent owing from the second roof repair that took place to 
Property One, plus the cost of the temporary roof cover, storage costs, and 
some internal works and cleaning.
Mrs J doesnt think she received any settlement in respect of repairs to the 
retaining wall. 
Mrs J doesnt think theres been minor delays. She points out the initial incident 
happened in 2016, and has explained how stressed shes been as a result of the 
damage to the properties. 
In respect of the damp expert, Mrs J would like to agree to the company used as 
she experienced a number of problerms with a previous contractor that UKI 
arranged. 
She says UKIs loss adjuster told her to hire a solicitor (in respect of access issues relating to the retaining wall) and reassured her that she would be 
reimbursed for this, but she wasnt.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI say they think its a flawed approach to rely so heavily on an image showing the 
removal of the fence posts, when it isnt clear from the image whether all the fence 
posts were removed. 
I acknowledged in my provisional decision that the photo provided by Mrs J didnt make it 
clear whether all the fence posts had been removed. However, I remain of the view that it 
wasnt reasonable for UKI to say the fence posts werent removed and therefore Mrs Rs 
opinion should be disregarded. In reaching that conclusion, UKI was relying on its own photo 
of the garden showing the fence posts in situ, but we dont know when that photo was taken. 
Mrs R carried out an inspection after Mrs J said the fence posts had been removed and she 
referred to the removal of those posts in her report. I think its highly unlikely Mrs R wouldve 
done so, had all the fence posts remained in place.
Also, the roofing contractor that carried out the second roof repairs to Property One 
commented on the removal of the posts. Again, I dont think he wouldve done so if thered 
been no evidence that fence posts had been removed. 
I think this point couldve easily been resolved by UKI as it couldve visited the property 
again after it received Mrs Rs report to check for itself that fence posts had been removed, 
but it didnt do so. 
I therefore remain satisfied that, based on the available evidence, the fence posts were 
removed. 
Mrs J says she thinks the damage to the roof of Property Three will cost more than the 
£486.96 that UKI had estimated. However, I dont think Mrs J has shown that to be the case. 
Shes provided a quote that was obtained in 2019 which was for £47,280. However, that 
included works for other repairs, as well as the removal of the entire roof of Property Three, 
and the installation of a new membrane. I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me 
that significant repairs were needed to the roof or Property Three. Ill explain why.
Mrs J seems to accept that the roof to Property Three wasnt damaged by the removal of the 
fence posts, as shes confirmed the fence posts behind that property were sawn before 
removal, in order to prevent any damage to the roof. That means the tiles mustve been 
damaged when the fence posts were installed. If the roof were in such poor condition after 
that event, then I wouldve expected Mr S to have commented on this. Ive looked back at 
Mr Ss report, and note he said the following in respect of the roof to Property Three:
There is evidence of disturbance in the tile courses in the central area.
This doesnt indicate significant damage to the roof, which is also supported by Mr Cs 
evidence. 
On balance, I therefore remain satisfied it was reasonable for UKI to offer £486.96 as this 
was the amount that Mr C estimated it would cost to carry out the repair.  
Mrs J says theres still loss of rent or other accommodation owed to her from the second roof repair that took place to Property One, and some other costs. If these costs are covered 
by the policy, Id expect UKI to deal with them. 
Regarding the retaining wall, its correct that Mrs J hasnt received a settlement from UKI for 
this. My provisional decision explained that UKI decided it would pay a cash settlement when 
repairs couldnt take place to the retaining wall because of access issues, however the later 
inspection by Mr C meant that it changed its mind about offering any settlement in respect of 
the retaining wall. 
Id said in my provisional decision that UKIs offer to pay £100 for minor delays in dealing 
with the claim was reasonable. Mrs J doesnt think theres been minor delays, because of 
the length of time the matter has been ongoing. Shes also explained the impact this has had 
on her. 
I do acknowledge that the matter has been ongoing for some time. However, the damage to 
the roof of Property One was resolved some time ago. It seems the main damage that is 
ongoing is the damp to Property Three, however it hasnt yet been established that this was 
caused by an insured incident. I therefore cant say that UKI has delayed matters, when I 
dont think Mrs J has yet shown that the damp should be covered under the policy.
Mrs J says shed like to agree to the damp expert used, which doesnt seem unreasonable. I 
think UKI should put forward three damp experts and allow Mrs J to choose which of those 
will carry out the inspection. 
Mrs J says UKIs loss adjuster asked her to hire a solicitor, and reassured her that she would 
be reimbursed for this. She says this cost her £753, and she hasnt been reimbursed. 
UKI should establish with its loss adjuster why Mrs J was advised to obtain legal advice. If 
UKI required the access issue to be resolved through a solicitor before it could deal with the 
claim, then I think it would be appropriate for it to cover this cost and reimburse Mrs J. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance 
Limited to do the following:
Reimburse Mrs J for the roof repairs to Property One that took place in 
February 2020. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date she paid the invoice to the date of settlement*. It 
should also deal with any internal damage caused by the water ingress, 
as well as any other costs covered by the policy associated with the roof 
repair. If Mrs J has already paid for those repairs/costs, it should 
reimburse her and add interest in the same way as Ive described above.
Deal with Mrs J and Mrs Ds claim for damage to the roof of Property 
Two. If there was internal damage caused by the water ingress, UKI 
should also deal with this as part of the claim. If Mrs J and Mrs D have 
already paid for the internal repairs, then UKI should reimburse them for 
this and add interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date 
they paid the invoice to the date of  settlement*.
Pay Mrs J the settlement of £486.96 for the roof repairs needed to 
Property Three. 
Arrange for a damp expert (it should put forward three to Mrs J, and allow her to choose one) to carry out an inspection at Property Three to find out 
what has caused the damp. If this is found to be covered by the policy, 
then UKI should deal with the claim, as well as reimburse Mrs J for the 
storage costs shes paid. Interest should be added to the storage costs at 
the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date she paid the invoice/s to 
the date of settlement*.
It should establish with its loss adjuster why Mrs J was advised to obtain 
legal advice. If UKI required the access issue to be resolved through a 
solicitor before it could deal with the claim, then it would need to cover 
this cost and reimburse Mrs J. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% 
simple per annum from the date she paid the invoice to the date of 
settlement*.
Pay Mrs J £100 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs J and Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs J 
and Mrs D a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman