DRN-3115530
The complaint
Miss S complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF)agreed to remove a late payment marker on her credit file but then reinstated 
it. She would like it removed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
Its clear to me that Miss S knew what the payment date was since she made timely 
payments for the first year of her agreement. After this  payment were made up to 
nine days late. But when payments were made before BPFs reporting date to the 
credit reference agencies late payment markers werent recorded
I dont agree that BPF re-instated, in December 2020, a late payment marker that it 
agreed to remove in May 2020 as a gesture of goodwill. I have listened to the 
relevant phone call. From that call its clear arrears had built up on the account when 
a direct debit was retuned for in August 2017, as payment was then made in October 
2017 this left a gap partly offset over time as Miss S rounded up her payments.
I believe the late payment marker in December 2020 was a combination of Miss Ss 
payment not being made until 8 December 2020 and the arrears on her account.
Miss S says BPF didnt advise her of a possible late payment marker. Ive seen a 
letter BPF sent to Miss S dated 8 December 2020. It is correctly addressed so I dont 
know why she didnt get it. The letter advised of arrears and asked Miss S to contact 
BPF it didnt mention a late payment marker, so I have thought very carefully whether 
it was then fair to apply one. Given the December payment was late, the account was 
in arrears, Miss Ss payments were frequently late but BPF had written to her 
numerous times about this and BPF has already removed the late payment marker in 
May 2020 as a gesture of goodwill I feel Miss S was aware of the implications of not 
making timely payments. I agree with BPFs view that it had to accurately reflect how 
Miss S managed her account. On balance I dont think it was unreasonable that BPF 
applied a late payment marker.
I agree that BPFs communication could have been better and think the £100 
payment BPF made in January 2021 to reflect this was fair 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman