DRN-3964145
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain that Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt give them enough 
information about their courtesy car entitlement when they took out a motor insurance policy. 
They want reimbursement of the travel costs they consequently incurred. Mr S is a named 
driver on Mrs Ss policy and represents her in this matter.
 
What happened
Mrs S took out a policy with Tesco through an online comparison site and the sale was non-
advised. When their car was damaged, she made a claim. But Tesco said it would take ten 
working days to assess the car and provide a courtesy car. Mr S was unhappy with this as 
the timescale wasnt in the policy documents. Mr S complained and Tesco had the car 
assessed within two days and it was declared a total loss. So Mr S wasnt then entitled to a 
courtesy car under his policys terms and conditions. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr S 
could have asked for further information about the courtesy car provision when he took out 
the policy, but he didnt. She thought the ten working day period to assess a car wasnt 
unusual and the term wouldnt be included in the policy document. And she thought Tesco 
reasonably responded to Mr Ss complaint by prioritising the assessment of his car.   
Mr S replied that he wanted an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. He thought Tesco should have spelled out the timescales for the provision of a 
courtesy car in the policy documents when it sold the courtesy car cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said that the lack of timescales for the provision of a courtesy car following a claim was 
significant and affected his ability to make an informed choice about buying the policy. He 
said that if hed known about the ten working days it could take to assess his car, then he 
would have bought upgraded courtesy car cover. 
Tesco has a responsibility to provide clear, fair and not misleading information to 
policyholders. Ive looked at the relevant section of Mr Ss policy and I can see that it states 
on page 17 of the policy booklet:
Once we have decided that the car can be economically repaired by one of our approved 
repairers and if it cannot be driven, we will provide the courtesy car on the next working day 
for as long as the repairs take.
If the car can still be legally driven (in other words, it is roadworthy), we will deliver the 
courtesy car when the car is collected for repairs.
The policy goes on to state that: 
A courtesy car will not be provided if your vehicle is declared a total loss.
So the key issue is how long Tesco takes to assess a car as repairable and so then provide 
a courtesy car. Tesco said it aims for complete assessments within ten working days. But it 
said this can take longer depending on the circumstances. And Im satisfied that this is fair 
and reasonable as I think its in keeping with industry standards. 
Mr S thought this should be included in Tescos policy booklet. But its not our role to tell an 
insurer what processes, procedures or policies it should adopt. And I think it isnt 
unreasonable for Tesco not to give timescales as this could unreasonably raise consumers 
expectations. 
I also dont think the timescale for assessing the car is significant information that Id expect 
Tesco to provide in its policy booklet. 
Mr S said that if hed known that it could take ten working days to assess his car, then he 
would have bought upgraded cover. I can see this policy states that Tesco will provide a 
courtesy car while the vehicle is awaiting repair and also in the case of its total loss. But from 
what I can see, this information would have been available to Mr S when he took out the 
policy. And so I think he could then have either bought it if it better suited his needs or asked 
Tesco further questions about the cover he did buy.  
As it happened, I think Tesco responded very promptly to Mr Ss concern and particular 
circumstances. I can see that it assessed his car within 48 hours of the incident and told him 
it was a total loss. I think that was very fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr S wanted Tesco to reimburse the travel costs he incurred. But I dont require Tesco to do 
this as Mr S wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under his policy and so Tesco wasnt 
responsible for any alternative travel costs he incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman