DRN-3661945
The complaint
A number of companies, which Ill collectively refer to as L, are policyholders on a 
commercial insurance policy. L has complained about how AXIS Specialty Europe SE 
settled its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr D, a director of L, has brought the complaint on Ls behalf. 
What happened
L held a policy with AXIS. It claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-
19 and the Governments response to the pandemic.
AXIS said that two extensions within the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Ls 
claim and in November 2020 offered around £31,000 in settlement. AXIS said they would 
review their offer following the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test case as the settlement might be impacted by 
any judgment relating to the trends clause within the policy. 
As L was unhappy with how AXIS were dealing with the claim, it brought its complaint to our 
service. L said AXIS were refusing to pay additional claims for increased cost of working, 
loss of rent and loss of stock. It said AXIS should pay the costs of its accountants fees and 
compensate it for the time they took to settle the claim due to undervaluing it. L was also 
unhappy about the way AXIS had calculated the settlement amount.   
Following the judgment, AXIS reviewed Ls claim and increased their offer to around 
£43,000. L didnt think this was enough and provided a report from its accountants to set out 
Ls losses. AXIS accepted the information provided by the accountants and, in May 2021, 
increased their offer to £100,000 which was the indemnity limit on the policy.   
Our investigator looked into Ls complaint and recommended that some parts be upheld. He 
thought AXIS had fairly concluded that L couldnt also claim for increased cost of working 
and therefore the claim limit was £100,000. He also didnt think the policy covered a loss of 
rent or a loss of stock. However, he thought AXIS should pay for Ls accountants fees which 
were incurred after the offer of £43,000 was made. He also thought AXIS should pay interest 
on the £100,000 at 2.5% from the date interest was payable on Ls bounce back loan (BBL) 
until the date they paid the £100,000. 
AXIS said they didnt accept all of the investigators findings but in an effort to resolve the 
complaint they agreed with the proposed settlement. 
L asked for an ombudsmans decision. In particular, L thought it should be compensated for 
the time it had taken for AXIS to pay the full amount of the claim and that it should receive 
interest on the BBL amount of around £480,000 which was the total amount borrowed by the 
companies covered under the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L has made a number of detailed points. While I have considered them all, Im not going to 
address them all in this decision and will focus on what I consider to be the central issues to 
this complaint. As AXIS have now paid the indemnity limit of £100,000 I dont think I need to 
comment on Ls complaint points which relate to how AXIS initially worked out the settlement 
amount. 
Increased cost of working
The terms and conditions of Ls policy sets out that loss of gross profits is 2A, loss of gross 
revenue is 2B (although 2B wasnt operative on Ls policy) and increased cost of working is 
2C. There is a heading in the policy which says, AUTOMATIC EXTENSIONS APPLICABLE 
TO SECTIONS 2A, 2B and 2C. Under the heading the policy says:
Our liability under any extension or combination of extensions shall not exceed, 
in respect of any one event during the Period of Insurance, 10% of the Sum 
Insured under Section 2 or £100,000, whichever is the lower amount, unless 
otherwise stated on the Schedule.
The extensions for denial of access and infectious diseases are both listed under this 
part of the policy. 
I think its clear that the indemnity limit for one event wont exceed 10% of the sum 
insured or £100,000 whichever is the lowest amount. As this is what AXIS have paid, I 
think theyve acted fairly in reasonably in saying that L cant claim an additional 
£100,000 for increased cost of working.  
Loss of stock
Loss of stock is covered under the property damage section of Ls policy. However, for this 
to be covered, there would need to have been damage, as defined in the policy, to Ls stock 
by an insured peril. However, I dont think there is cover for Ls loss of stock in these 
circumstances. In reaching this decision Ive taken into account relevant law including TKC 
London Limited v Allianz Insurance plc [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), where the judge said 
that the loss of stock due to the impact of Covid-19 wasnt accidental and was due to an 
inherent defect or the normal process of deterioration. Ive noted that Ls policy also has an 
exclusion for accidental damage caused by gradual deterioration or a latent defect. I think 
the loss of Ls stock was as a result of the business being closed and therefore a gradual 
deterioration or latent defect. Therefore, it wouldnt be covered. 
The policy also extends to cover loss of stock due to specified issues with the refrigeration. 
However, Im not persuaded that any of these things caused Ls loss of stock. I appreciate 
that AXISs loss adjuster included a reserve for a loss of stock but its for the insurer to 
decide which terms apply to the policy and I think AXIS have acted fairly and reasonably in 
finding that there isnt cover for Ls loss of stock. 
Loss of rent
L doesnt have loss of rent as part of its business interruption insurance cover, but there is 
cover for rent payable as an extension under the property damage section. The policy 
defines rent payable as:The rent which You are legally obliged to pay whilst the Buildings used by You at 
the Premises or any part thereof are rendered unfit for occupation in 
consequence of their suffering Damage caused by an Insured Peril.
For this to provide cover, there would need to have been damage to the buildings used 
by L. I havent seen anything to indicate that the buildings used by L suffered from 
damage. Therefore, AXIS have fairly decided that L cant claim under this section of the 
policy. 
Accountants fees
The terms and conditions of the policy say that accountants fees are payable under the 
policy. As set out in the increased cost of working section above, I think its clear that the 
most AXIS will pay for one event is £100,000. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that any accountants fees L incurred up to AXISs offer of £43,000 
can be included within the £100,000 indemnity limit as I think they were incurred as a normal 
part of presenting the loss. AXIS have already agreed to pay any accountants fees incurred 
after that date, so I dont think I need to comment on it further.  
Interest
I understand that L would like me to award 8% interest on its losses and interest on the total 
amount of its BBL. However, my role is to consider what losses L has incurred due to being 
without the money it should have had but for AXISs error. 
L took out a BBL in April/May 2020. The total amount was around £480,000 for all of its 
companies and I understand that AXIS not paying its claim contributed to it taking this 
amount. While AXIS delayed in paying the correct amount to settle Ls claim, I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that L wouldnt have taken out the additional £380,000 it if wasnt 
for AXISs error. Therefore, I am only awarding interest on the £100,000 indemnity limit as 
that is the amount L was without due to AXISs actions. 
I dont think its reasonable to expect AXIS to have settled Ls claim by the time it took out 
the BBL. So, Im not going to require AXIS to pay interest on the settlement before that date. 
I understand that interest is payable on a BBL at 2.5% from the 12 month anniversary of the 
BBL being taken out. As L will only incur interest from that date, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for AXIS to pay interest at 2.5% from the 12 month anniversary of its BBL to the 
date AXIS made payment of the £100,000. If AXIS made any interim payments before the 12 
month anniversary of the BBL this amount can be deducted from the amount interest is 
payable on.  
Compensation for inconvenience 
I recognise Mr Ds frustration at the time it took AXIS to pay Ls claim. However, L is the 
eligible complainant in this case and not Mr D. Therefore, I can only consider the impact of 
AXISs actions on L, as a limited company and not on Mr D, its director. In this particular 
case, I havent seen enough to consider that compensation is warranted for the 
inconvenience of Ls errors. In reaching this decision, Ive taken into account that L would 
always have had the inconvenience of pursuing those aspects of its complaint that I havent 
upheld.  
Putting things right
To put things right AXIS should:Reimburse L for any accountants fees incurred after AXIS made its offer of £43,000.
Pay interest on the settlement amount at a rate of 2.5% simple per annum from the 
date of the 12 month anniversary of the BBL until the date AXIS made payment. Any 
interim payments made by AXIS to L before the date interest became payable on the 
BBL can be deducted from the amount interest is payable on. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require AXIS Specialty Europe SE 
to put things right as set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman