DRN-3570737
The complaint
Miss S complains about the service received when attempting to contact Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
In July 2021, Miss S attempted to contact Lloyds on a number of occasions, but was unable 
to get through and the line kept cutting out. She said this was distressing  so she 
complained to Lloyds. 
Lloyds responded and apologised for the issues Miss S had faced, and agreed to reimburse 
her with £7.50 to cover the cost of her calls. They also agreed to pay her a further £15 for 
the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
Miss S requested the compensation be increased to £30 as she could only withdraw £10 
and £20 notes from the cash machine, and Lloyds agreed to this. But they requested that 
Miss S call once she received the £22.50 and said they would round it up at this stage. 
Unfortunately, the increase was not applied. 
Miss S called to inform Lloyds the increase hadnt been applied, and Lloyds apologised and 
credited her with a further £70, taking the total compensation to £92.50. But Miss S 
remained unhappy, and said this left her with insufficient funds to pay for her food. So she 
brought her complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that he 
accepted the matter wouldve caused Miss S some distress, but he was satisfied that the 
compensation Lloyds had paid was sufficient. 
Miss S remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that when Miss S called in, she experienced difficulty in getting through to 
someone. Lloyds have explained that the phone lines tend to dip in and out, which can 
cause confusion, with customers often believing theyve been cut off, and then choosing to 
terminate the call. I accept this would have been frustrating for Miss S. 
I also appreciate that Miss S having to wait on hold on occasions for some time, and having 
been cut off wouldve also been frustrating. But Lloyds have already paid Miss S £92.50 in 
recognition of the distress this matter has caused, and has evidenced this by providing 
statements showing those monies were credited. 
Miss S has said Lloyds should increase the compensation, as what theyve paid her isnt 
sufficient to pay for her food. Shes also said she was concerned that any credit would be 
eaten up by her overdraft. I can see that in response to this, Lloyds offered to cancel some 
of her direct debits if she was in a position where she was struggling to pay for essentials; 
and they agreed to open her another account to which they could credit the compensation, 
which I think was a reasonable response. But Miss S chose not to take up this option. 
I appreciate this has been a difficult time for Miss S, but based on everything Ive seen, I 
think the compensation Lloyds have paid Miss S for the difficulty shes experienced is 
sufficient, and I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
I would like to say that while Im not upholding Miss Ss case, I do appreciate she is 
experiencing a difficult time right now. And as some of our staff members have highlighted, 
there is support available. 
I have again included below, details of some organisations that may be able to support 
Miss S, and I would encourage her to reach out to see what support is available. The 
organisations are:
Citizens advice: 0808 223 1133
Mind: 0300 123 3393
The Samaritans: 116 123
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman