DRN-2332410
The complaint
Mr M complains that Experian Limited wont give him a copy of his credit file. 
What happened
Mr M lives abroad and has told us he intends to return to the UK in the near term. In 
anticipation of his return, Mr M tried to get a credit report from Experian. But Experians 
systems didnt allow Mr M to generate a credit report. 
Mr M complained and said it wasnt fair that Experian allowed third parties to access data but 
wouldnt send him his credit file. Experian advised that it has to complete checks to protect 
the information it holds and that the card Mr M had used to set up his account was likely 
registered to an overseas address. As a result, the address included in the online application 
didnt match. Experian has sent a copy of Mr Ms online application and it refers to an 
address in Scotland. 
Experian confirmed Mr M could obtain a copy of his statutory credit report by sending a letter 
that included various pieces of personal information along with two copies of documents 
linking him to an overseas address in the previous three months and a copy of one 
document linking him to a UK address. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service and it was considered by an investigator. During 
the investigation, Experian agreed to accept Mr Ms documents via email, instead of in the 
post. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and said Experian had given a clear 
explanation of the information required to provide his credit report. As the investigator didnt 
think Experian had treated Mr M unfairly and he asked to appeal, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has explained that after several years living outside the UK he intends to return and 
wants to check his credit file. I understand why Mr M wants to check his credit file and his 
frustration at the processes involved. But I havent found information that shows Experian is 
refusing to help. From what Ive seen, Experian has provided a consistent list of information 
Mr M needs to supply so it can verify his identity and release the credit report. 
Businesses have to be careful with private information and ensure it is only released to 
authorised parties. When Mr M tried to set up an online account with Experian on 
12 March 2020, he gave his address as somewhere in Scotland, not the foreign address 
hes been living at. When it responded to Mr Ms complaint, Experian explained that because 
Mr Ms bank card was registered at a different address in another country, his application 
couldnt proceed without verification. I understand Mr Ms application was entirely genuine, 
but Im satisfied Experians systems picked up something that needed further checks. 
When Experian responded to Mr Ms complaint it confirmed the steps he needed to follow 
and information he needed to supply to obtain his statutory credit report. Mr M says the 
information requested isnt realistically obtainable. But, in my view, none of the items given 
on the list appear to be unusual in nature or unreasonably difficult to obtain.
In response to the investigator, Mr M says its unreasonable to ask for six years of address 
history whilst the consumer is in another country. But I think most people would have records 
of their previous addresses available and Im not persuaded it was unreasonable of Experian 
to request that information to complete its verification process. In much the same way, I 
havent found that the request for documents to be used for address verification from Mr Ms 
current address, outside the UK, and something linking him to an address within the UK 
were unreasonable. 
I appreciate that Mr M is abroad which may make complying harder, but I have to balance 
that against Experians obligation to ensure it only releases information to an authorised 
party. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but I havent found that Experian has treated him unfairly 
by asking for documents to verify his identity before sending his credit report.  
I can see that an investigator forwarded Mr Ms documents to Experian on his behalf. But 
Experian responded to say it needed a clearer copy of the letter confirming Mr Ms UK 
address link. In addition, Mr M provided a utility bill for his current residence but Experian 
advised it was more than three months old so couldnt be used. I understand my decision will 
be disappointing for Mr M, but Im satisfied Experians requirement that he completes the 
verification requirements before it provides his credit file is fair and reasonable. 
As I havent found Experian has made a mistake or treated Mr M unfairly, Im not telling it to 
take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman