DRN-3803044
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
Mr B opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in May 2013. Its not clear what his 
initial credit limit was but it was raised to £6,500 in October 2015. It was further raised to 
£8,000 in May 2016 and then again to £9,500 in December 2017. 
Mr B eventually defaulted on his credit card. Mr B says that Barclaycard acted irresponsibly 
by providing him with the credit card and when it increased his limit. He says if Barclaycard 
had done adequate checks on his situation it would have seen that he wouldnt be able to 
repay his balance in a reasonable length of time.
 
Barclaycard says it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr B and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mr B  and when it increased his credit limit. Barclaycard didnt agree to us 
looking at the account opening and first credit limit increase because it was out of time under 
the rules this service has to apply. Our adjudicator agreed that this was the case and 
explained this to Mr B.
Our adjudicator reviewed the last two credit limits which were in our jurisdiction. They 
thought that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld from the point of the last credit limit increase. 
On the basis of the information available to them, they thought Barclaycard ought reasonably 
to have thought there was an indication the credit was unaffordable for Mr B.
Barclaycard disagreed. It said Mr B rarely used more than £8,000 of his credit limit and 
regularly paid large sums to reduce his debt. It says there was no evidence of financial 
difficulties until Mr B entered into a debt management plan (DMP). 
As Barclaycard disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Bs complaint.
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Barclaycard should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include 
things like understanding Mr Bs income, the total amount Mr B borrowed, and the length of 
time Mr B had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
As previously explained, I only have the authority to look at the credit limit increases made in 
May 2016 and December 2017, but the same principles about checks apply here.
In relation to the increase in May 2016, I think Barclaycard collected sufficient information 
about Mr Bs circumstances to allow it to make a reasonable and fair decision to increase Mr 
Bs credit limit. Barclaycard carried out a credit check prior to the increase which showed 
that Mr B had around £12,500 in active unsecured lending. The credit check didnt show any 
other issues which might have indicated a cause for concern and Mr B had been maintaining 
his account well, although he did usually only make the minimum repayment.
Mr Bs income was about £30,000 a year at the time. So, repayments on the existing active 
debt and the proposed increase of £1,500 would likely have been affordable  I dont have 
any information to suggest otherwise. 
 
However, by the time of the December 2017 increase things had changed for Mr B. 
Barclaycards checks showed that Mr Bs unsecured debt had increased significantly to 
nearly £25,000  almost doubling. This was more than an entire years net salary for Mr B 
indicating that he was over-indebted and would have trouble making sustainable repayments 
on any increased amount.
 
Barclaycard argues that Mr B rarely used the additional credit it provided and that he 
sometimes paid off amounts larger than the required minimum repayment. This isnt the 
point. The sources of the repayments are unknown, but I think  looking at Mr Bs overall 
circumstances including his fixed income and his use of credit elsewhere  its likely Mr B 
was making balance transfers from other credit to keep on top of his repayments. Just 
because Mr B made payments over the minimum I dont think this takes away from the fact 
Barclaycard understood Mr B was likely overindebted when it increased his credit limit.  And 
the use (or not) of the increased credit limit is reflected in the redress our adjudicator 
considered Barclaycard should pay. 
So while Mr B wasnt missing significant numbers of payments, I think it was clear that Mr B 
would have been paying a very large proportion of his income each month to meet 
repayments on unsecured debt. I think if Barclaycard had taken this into consideration it 
would have been clear that he could not sustainably afford an increase in his credit limit. I 
think Mr B lost out as a result of Barclaycards decision to increase his credit limit. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Barclaycard should have increased Mr Bs credit limit from £8,000, I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. However, Mr B has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I think 
he should pay this back. Therefore, if my decision becomes final I will direct Barclaycard to:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £8,000.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr B along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. Barclaycard should also remove all adverse information 
recorded from 4 December 2017 regarding this account from Mr Bs credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £8,000, Barclaycard 
should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr B for the remaining amount. 
Once Mr B has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded 
after 4 December 2017 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit 
file.
If Barclaycard has sold the debt to a third party (which I understand it has), it should 
arrange to either buy back the debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure 
the redress set out above is carried out promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, 
to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman