DRN-3117648
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car acquired with finance from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited was mis-sold because the start mileage on the finance agreement was incorrectly 
recorded.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr F was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. The agreement recorded the mileage of the car as 50,551 at the point of supply.
Mr F later complained to VWFS saying that the mileage on the agreement was incorrect, 
because the recorded mileage at the MOT and service in November 2020 was 53,562 miles.
VWFS investigated and upheld the complaint. It apologised for the error and amended the 
start mileage on the finance agreement.
Mr F wasnt happy with the response. He said the car had been advertised for sale with the 
incorrect mileage and that as a result hed paid more for it than he should have done.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she wasnt persuaded that there had 
been a a mis-sale because although there was a difference between the advertised mileage 
and the actual mileage, the difference wasnt so significant that it wouldve made a difference 
to Mr Fs decision to enter into the agreement. 
Mr F didnt agree. He said the car had been advertised at the wrong mileage and that the 
asking price had therefore been based on the wrong mileage. He said hed been told that the 
price difference between a car with 50,551 miles and 53,562 miles was £2500 and he 
thought hed paid £2500 more than he should have done. He said VWFSs actions in 
amending the agreement hadnt benefitted him because hed already paid too much for the 
car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to find that theres been a mis-sale, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a  
misrepresentation. A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a 
consumer to enter into a contract.
Theres no dispute that the wrong mileage was recorded on the finance agreement. VWFs 
has apologised for the error and has amended the agreement to reflect the correct mileage. 
Mr F says he hasnt benefitted from this, however, I disagree, because if the (lower) incorrect 
mileage remained recorded on the agreement this could have impacted on any excess 
mileage charges which Mr F might have been asked to pay at the end of the agreement.
Ive taken into account what Mr F has said about the car being advertised at the wrong 
mileage. Hes explained that he was unable to view the car properly due to restrictions in 
place at the time, so he wasnt aware that the mileage on the odometer was different from 
the advertised mileage.
I can see that the MOT paperwork for the car refers to mileage of 53,562. I havent seen 
evidence of the advertised mileage, but I can see that a mileage of 50,551 has been 
recorded on the finance agreement, so I think its likely that the car was advertised with lower 
mileage than it actually had. But even if that was the case, I think it was up to Mr F to check 
the paperwork when he signed the agreement. If hed looked at the MOT and service 
documents, he would have noticed the discrepancy in the mileage.
Ive thought about whether theres been a misrepresentation. In order to be satisfied that 
there was, I would need to be certain that Mr F was given untrue information about the 
mileage, and that this information was the main, or one of the main, reasons why he entered 
into the agreement. In this case, whilst I understand that there was a difference between the 
advertised mileage and the correct mileage, this was only a difference of around 3000 miles, 
which I dont think is significant on a used car. If Mr f had been aware that the mileage was 
300 miles higher than advertised, I dont think this would have changed his decision to enter 
into the agreement. Because of this, I dont think there is enough to say that there has been 
a misrepresentation.
I understand the point which Mr F has made about the value of the car. However, Mr F 
hasnt provided evidence to show that the car was worth £2500 less than he paid. Based on 
what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the difference in mileage made any difference to the 
value of the car. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman