DRN-3013076
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mr D took out in 2006 with 
(and on the advice of) Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. The complaint is that the lifetime 
mortgage was mis-sold. 
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr D took the mortgage out in 2006, jointly with his wife, Mrs D. Mrs D was in the early 
stages of dementia at the time, and so Power of Attorney was granted to Ms B, who 
attended the interview and acted for her mother in the transaction. Sadly, Mrs D died in 
2015.
The terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly repayments are required. The intention is 
that the mortgage is due to be repaid if the last surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing 
care or after their death. It can be repaid voluntarily before either of those events have 
happened, but then an early repayment charge (ERC) is usually payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
I summarise below the main reasons given in the initial complaint to Aviva for believing that 
the mortgage had been mis-sold:
The interest, in particular, that the rate was fixed for the entire life of the mortgage, 
wasnt explained clearly;
It wasnt apparent how the balance would accrue over the years;
It wasnt made clear that the mortgage couldnt be repaid without paying an early 
repayment charge (ERC); and
Avivas representative encouraged Mr and Mrs D to take the mortgage for commission 
purposes.
Additionally, Mr D has told us he believes his property was over-valued to ensure the 
mortgage went through, and that Aviva induced him and Mrs D to grant Power of Attorney to 
Ms B as a way of getting the loan to go through. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr D asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether Aviva did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to any 
hindsight that the intervening years might have brought.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation. The value of such documents is 
that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the 
relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be 
recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a 
distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, 
well generally attach some weight to it.
The information-gathering exercise identified various specific financial objectives, chief 
among them being to provide a gift of £30,000 to Ms B to repay personal debts. The other 
objectives included at the time were £4,000 for a family holiday, £4,000 to put towards a 
change of car, and £2,000 to cover the fees for taking the mortgage out. By proceeding with 
the application, Mr D and Ms B on Mrs Ds behalf, signed to confirm the information given 
about their personal circumstances and spending plans to be true and accurate at the time. 
The information captured also indicated that Mr and Mrs D had about £4,000 of personal 
savings which they regarded as being for emergencies. Its reasonable to infer from this that 
Mr and Mrs D would have need of some form of borrowing if they were to be able to realise 
their stated objectives. So Ive next considered whether something other than a lifetime 
mortgage would have been a better option. 
Mr D says other possibilities for raising the money werent discussed. The point of sale 
documentation included a suitability letter from the advisor, dated 27 July 2006, which 
included the following statement.
We have considered alternatives to meeting your objectives such as using your
existing savings and/or investments or moving to a smaller property, but these were
discounted because your current savings of £ 4,000 act as your emergency fund, and you 
have no wish to move.That suggests its more likely than not that other ways of raising the £40,000 were 
discussed. But even if that wasnt the case, given the overall financial circumstances that 
prevailed at the time, its very unlikely that Mr and D would have been accepted for a 
traditional mortgage, given their age and circumstances and income, always assuming they 
wanted, or were able, to make regular monthly payments. 
That indicates to me that an equity release was probably the only viable option for 
Mr and Mrs D given the circumstances recorded at the time. The mortgage Aviva 
recommended and then provided for Mr and Mrs D raised the money theyd asked for.
Mr D argues that they should have been advised to pay the fees upfront rather than add the 
fees to the mortgage. I agree that adding the fees to the mortgage meant that interest has 
accrued ever since on £40,000 rather than £38,000. But the fact-find recorded that 
Mr and Mrs D only had £4,000 of savings, which they regarded as their emergency fund. In 
that context, I dont think it would have been good advice to recommend using half of their 
emergency fund to pay the mortgage fees.
That brings me to the interest rate. Having no regulatory function means its not my role to 
decide if a particular interest rate is fair or not. So I can only comment in general terms. Its 
normal for interest to roll up on a lifetime equity release mortgage, and then to attract further 
interest on a compounding basis. 
The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary terms in the point-of-sale material. Ive seen 
the illustration for the mortgage; it uses an assumption that the mortgage will last for 15 
years, but it includes a narrative pointing out this assumption and reminding the reader of the 
lifetime nature of the mortgage. That information is then replicated in the mortgage offer 
itself.
The rate charged is 6.06% fixed for the duration of the mortgage, and that is set out in the 
offer. I cant know, and wont speculate on, how closely Mr D and Ms B on Mrs Ds behalf 
studied the offer, or how much of the information it contained they assimilated; but I will 
return to this point in due course. Nonetheless, the information was set out in a manner 
prescribed by the FCAs predecessor as regulator, the Financial Services Authority. 
The use of fixed rather than variable rates has always been normal on equity release 
mortgages, as they enable a lender to forecast the likely growth in the debt over time as the 
interest rolls up. Thats important to the lender, from a risk assessment point of view when 
deciding how much to lend. But it also gives a degree of clarity to the borrower about how 
their debt will grow over time, because that forecast can be incorporated into the mortgage 
offer, as it was in this case. 
Yes, 6.06% sounds very high in the current climate. But this rate was set in 2006, when the 
financial landscape was very different from what it is now. For much of the first decade of the 
21st century, the general expectation was that rates generally were already low and more 
likely to rise than fall over the short to medium term. All that changed in late 2007/early 2008, 
when the financial crisis struck, and rates plummeted to record lows from which theyve still 
not moved significantly. That could not possibly have been forecast in 2006.
Similarly, the mortgage offer document sets out the provision for an ERC; the circumstances 
in which it might be chargeable, a description of the mechanism for calculating it, and finally 
some numerical examples, including the maximum amount the ERC could possibly be.
Mr D has questioned whether a proper assessment was carried out to ensure his and 
Mrs Ds property was worth enough to support the proposed loan. He says Aviva provided the estimated value of £180,000 recorded on the application, and this was demonstrably too 
high. But the question of who provided that estimate is entirely moot. 
The decision to lend wasnt based on an estimated valuation of £180,000; it was based on 
an actual valuation of £160,000, and Aviva definitely did not provide that lower figure; it was 
provided by the professional who valued the property on Avivas instruction. Avivas duty to 
Mr and Mrs D in 2006 was to appoint a suitably qualified surveyor to carry out the valuation. 
Provided it did that, and I am satisfied it did, Aviva was entitled to rely on the surveyors 
opinion when assessing whether and on what terms to lend money to Mr and Mrs D. It was 
the valuer who valued Mr and Mrs Ds home at £160,000, and Aviva legitimately relied on 
that figure when it made the lending decision. 
In these circumstances, a lender does not have any liability for any shortcomings on the part 
of the valuer. I should also make clear that Im not implying, and it should not be inferred, 
that there was anything wrong with the valuation. Ive not  because I have no power to do 
so  considered whether the surveyors opinion was accurate or not. All I can consider here 
is whether Aviva met its duty to Mr and Mrs D in 2006. For the reasons I have set out, I am 
satisfied it did. Therefore it could reasonably rely on the valuation of £160,000 when deciding 
to lend to Mr and Mrs D.
Ill make one further observation on this point; comments Mr D has made to our investigator 
suggests he thinks Aviva may have colluded with the valuer to over-value his property. 
Thats not something that falls within my remit; its essentially an allegation of criminal 
wrongdoing. If Mr D wants to pursue that allegation, Id strongly recommend he get legal 
advice first.
On the point about Ms B being granted Power of Attorney for Mrs D, Mr D says Avivas 
advisor was motivated by commission and orchestrated this as a way of ensuring the 
mortgage went through. In addressing this, I come back to what I said earlier about available 
evidence and the balance of probabilities. 
The point of sale documentation shows that the fact-find was carried out and the mortgage 
application submitted in the final week of July 2006. The application for the Power of 
Attorney is dated the first week of June 2006. I dont rule out the possibility that there was 
contact between Aviva and Mr and Mrs D before the Power of Attorney application began, 
but its not corroborated by the evidence Ive seen thus far. 
But even if I take Mr D at face value when he says the idea to get Power of Attorney came 
from Aviva, Im not sure I could say that was a bad thing. Mr D has told us that Mrs D was 
already in the early stages of dementia; that being the case, theres a very strong likelihood 
that shed have needed to appoint an attorney, whilst she still had capacity to do so, to deal 
with her affairs generally; not just to expedite the equity release mortgage. Even if Aviva did 
suggest the idea first, its hard for me to conclude that it was a bad idea, or that 
Mr and Mrs D would not have reached the same decision themselves quite soon in any 
event.
Theres something else; amongst the evidence Ive seen is a letter Mr and Mrs Ds solicitors 
wrote to the Public Guardianship Office in August 2006. In that letter, their solicitor wrote:
The Donor [Mrs D] is the joint owner of their home, [ADDRESS REDACTED], with her 
husband [Mr D]. It is their wish and the wish of the Attorney to arrange a lifetime Mortgage 
Equity Release of the property. [Mr D], the Joint owner and the Attorney are both anxious to 
proceed with this application as soon as possible. [Mr. D] in particular wishes to use part of 
the loan to purchase a car for the use of himself and his wife, [Mrs D]. They intend to arrange a Norwich Union Equity Release*. Norwich Union require confirmation from the 
Public Guardianship Office that the Attorney, [Ms B], does have authority to apply for and 
execute the Lifetime Mortgage on behalf of [Mrs D].
*Aviva was known under the name Norwich Union in 2006.
The importance of this narrative, coming as it does from solicitors acting on instructions from 
Mr and Mrs D (or Ms B for Mrs D) is that it indicates the desire to borrow the money was 
very much driven by Mr and Mrs D (or Ms B for Mrs D). It also shows the importance they 
attached to the Public Guardianship Office giving its approval to Ms B acting for Mrs D in the 
transaction (which it duly gave). 
Its possible that after the mortgage had gone through, Mr and Mrs D (or Ms B for Mrs D) 
subsequently changed their minds about what theyd do with some or all of the money, but 
Avivas duty was to give suitable advice, which Im satisfied it did. Aviva couldnt insist its 
customers follow every aspect of the advice it had given them. Nor was it obliged to monitor 
its customers behaviour after the sale to ensure they did what theyd said they were going to 
do.
One last thing; Mr D says the documents were too complex to ensure a proper 
understanding of the mortgage, or to appreciate at the time that not all was as it should be. 
But Mr and Mrs D (or Ms B for Mrs D) didnt just have the benefit of financial advice from 
Aviva when taking out this mortgage. 
Thats because, before they took out the mortgage, they were required to have independent 
legal advice from a solicitor. Mr D has disputed this saying their solicitor only advised them 
on the Power of Attorney. I appreciate that may be what he recalls one, but the evidence 
from the time clearly indicates otherwise. 
I have seen a copy of the certificate their solicitor signed on 10 November 2006 (the same 
solicitor who had written to the Public Guardianship Office in August 2006). By signing the 
certificate, the solicitor was confirming that the terms of the mortgage had been explained to 
Mr and Mrs D. I think that if the solicitor had any concerns that Mr and/or Mrs D didnt 
understand (or in Mrs Ds case wasnt capable of understanding) the nature and effect of 
what they were doing, they wouldnt have been allowed to proceed with the mortgage. 
If Mr D remains of the view that no such legal advice was forthcoming, thats matter for him 
to take up with his solicitors. The relationship between solicitor and consumer remains 
separate, discrete, and independent from the relationship between advice firm and 
customer.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman