DRN-3231312
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about the advice Barclays Bank UK PLC gave them with regards to 
switching the interest rates on their mortgage.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr and Mrs N spoke with Barclays about a mortgage application. They 
already had a mortgage with Barclays and were looking at porting their mortgage to a new 
property they wanted to buy. They also discussed borrowing some more money and they 
say during the conversation they discussed the options around moving their mortgage away 
from Barclays. 
Mr and Mrs N were provided with a mortgage offer in December 2020. The mortgage was 
made up of four parts, each with a different fixed interest rate product, and was for a total of 
£365,500 with a term of 40 years. 
Mr and Mrs N say they purchased their new property for under market value, but major 
works were required on the property. They say Barclays told them that once the works had 
been completed on the property, they would be able to switch the interest rates on their 
mortgage to lower interest rate products. 
In March 2021, Mr and Mrs N say they approached Barclays for further borrowing to finish 
off the works to their property. They also enquired about moving all parts of their mortgage 
on to a lower fixed interest rate product and were told this would cost them in excess of 
£10,000 to complete. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs N raised a complaint. 
Barclays considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. It referred Mr and Mrs N to their 
mortgage offer which explained that an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) was applicable to 
each part of their mortgage. It also didnt think it had made an error when Mr and Mrs N 
hadnt received a response to an email, due to their employee no longer working at the bank. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly. They 
explained the mortgage offer clearly outlined an ERC would be payable if the mortgage was 
redeemed before the end of the fixed rate period. They also explained Barclays couldnt 
locate the call recording of the conversation Mr and Mrs N had when applying for the 
mortgage, so couldnt evidence what they said was discussed about the interest rate 
products.
Mr and Mrs N disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs N agreed to a mortgage offer in December 2020. This mortgage offer outlines 
that there are four different parts to the mortgage, each with a different fixed interest rate 
product. Each part was on a repayment basis and the breakdown of the mortgage is as 
follows:
Part 1: £239,094.96 with a 5 year fixed rate of 2.10% until 30 April 2023.
Part 2: £90,812.96 with a 2 year fixed rate of 3.13% until 31 January 2023.
Part 3: £30,801.50 with a 3 year fixed rate of 1.95% until 31 July 2023.
Part 4: £4,790.58 with a 2 year fixed rate of 1.88% until 30 April 2022.
The mortgage offer also sets out under section 7, Early repayment, what ERC is applicable 
on each part of the mortgage if the loan is repaid early. It gives cash examples of what each 
amount could be if the mortgage was repaid in full, before the end of the period the ERC was 
applicable. The breakdown of each ERC is as follows:
Part 1: 3% of the amount repaid before 31 January 2023 - £7,173.00
Part 2: 2% of the amount repaid before 31 January 2023 - £1,817.00
Part 3: 3% of the amount repaid before 31 July 2023 - £925.00
Part 4: 2% of the amount repaid before 30 April 2022 - £96.00
Having reviewed the mortgage offer, I think it clearly sets out which fixed interest rate 
product applied to each part of the mortgage, and what each ERC was applicable to each 
part of the mortgage if it was repaid early. Mr and Mrs N would have been provided with this 
document before agreeing to the mortgage, so Im satisfied they would have been aware of 
this information.
Mr and Mrs N say they were told by Barclays they would be able to switch the interest rate 
products on their mortgage when the works on their property were completed. They say that 
if they werent told this would be possible, they would never have taken a product with an 
ERC and would have looked at other deals that had no ERC.
Unfortunately, a copy of the call recording where this conversation took place isnt available, 
so Im unable to say with any certainty what was discussed at the time with regards to 
switching interest rate products. Where this is the case, I need to think about whats most 
likely to have happened, taking into account all the available evidence and arguments.
At the time Mr and Mrs N took this mortgage out with Barclays, the mortgage offer indicates 
that parts 1, 3 and 4 already had fixed rates in place with ERCs applicable if they were to be 
redeemed early. I say this because working backwards from the end date of each product, 
the duration of each product indicates it being fixed before December 2020  this is in line 
with Mr and Mrs N porting their mortgage, as when you port you transfer over your previous 
fixed rate products to the new property. 
As these fixed interest rate products would have been in place at the time of Mr and Mrs Ns 
application, I think it unlikely the Barclays advisor would say they could be switched to lower 
rates once work had been completed to the property  as it would have been clear each had 
an ERC applicable for a set period of time. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs N say that at the time of the application they had discussions 
about moving their mortgage from Barclays, and that they now feel they have been adversely impacted by not leaving at that time because they will incur an ERC. However, I 
think it should be noted that if they were to leave Barclays at that time, they still would have 
incurred a significant ERC. 
In any case, if the call was available and it could be evidenced that the Barclays advisor did 
say that Mr and Mrs N could switch their fixed rate products to lower ones, I wouldnt 
necessarily say the ERC should be waived on them. This is because Mr and Mrs N agreed 
to these products before their application to port and is a cost they would always have 
needed to have paid if they decided to leave Barclays. 
With regards to Barclays advisor not responding to Mr and Mrs Ns email, I dont think it 
would be fair to conclude Barclays had done anything wrong. I say this because the advisor 
no longer worked at Barclays when the email was received.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman