DRN-1604299
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Homeserve Membership Limited mishandled his home emergency 
insurance policy.
What happened
For many years Mr B and his mother each had a Homeserve agreement on their respective 
properties. Since the year 2000 she was paying direct debits for both.
In 2019 Mr B complained that he had cancelled his policy and Homeserve should refund the 
premiums taken since in 2013.
By a final response letter in July 2019, Homeserve declined the complaint. In autumn 2019 
Mr B brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Homeserve had acted unreasonably or treated Mr B unfairly.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Homeserve has not explained how his mother ended up paying for his policy.
Despite Homeserves record, his mother did not give instructions in any phone 
conversation (on 22 September 2000). She was in America.
Homeserves records incorrectly record a conversation with his mothers mother had 
died several years before.
He spoke with Homeserve and cancelled his policy. Conveniently, Homeserve has 
no record of the call.
From September 2013 he regarded the policy as no longer valid and he made no 
claim.
Homeserve continued to take payments from his mothers bank account. She had 
her own policy and considered she was making one monthly payment for electrical 
faults and one for plumbing faults.
Homeserve incorrectly recorded a plumbing breakdown on 12 November 2015. It 
was subsequently reallocated to the correct policy. 
In September 2016 internal instructions were given by Homeserve to stop marketing 
material being sent to Mrs B. She did not receive any written documentation from 
Homeserve related to his property. 
In 2019 his mother queried the two payments to Homeserve. He discovered there 
was still a live policy for his property.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Bs statement that his mother was abroad on 22 September 
2000. Nevertheless, Homeserve has a record from that day as follows:
cust renewed plumbing cover on a quarterly direct debit, spoke to Mrs [B] about the 
renewal.
Homeserve has a record from 4 October 2000 as follows:
cust mother who is paying the dd called for the collections dates.
Also Homeserve has a record from 26 July 2001 as follows:
Mrs [Bs] Mother called to confirm payments ok, confirmed.
I find that record of 26 July 2001 is an inaccurate reference to Mr Bs mother. 
Nevertheless I accept those three records as showing that Mr Bs mother had set up a direct 
debit to pay for his policy.
I accept Mr Bs statement that in 2013 he made a claim under the policy. Theres not enough 
evidence that he rang to cancel but Homeserve continued the policy anyway. Further, I find 
that Homeserve sent clear renewal letters each year, most recently by email in August 2018. 
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Homeserve to refund any premiums to Mr B or 
his mother on his behalf.
Mr Bs mother and then Mr B rang Homeserve in 2019. He made a claim in August 2019 
before letting his policy lapse. Thats a further reason why it wouldnt be fair to direct a 
refund for that policy year.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Homeserve Membership Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July2020.
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman