DRN-4384750
The complaint
Ms S complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc unfairly declined her claim under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to the purchase of a timeshare product she paid for using 
her credit card.   
What happened
While on holiday in June 2017, Ms S and her husband (Mr S) were invited to attend an 
update meeting with a timeshare supplier who Ill refer to as L. At the time of the meeting, 
they were existing customers of L having previously purchased points in timeshare products 
supplied by them.
During the course of that meeting, L presented details of an offer available to Mr S and Ms S 
to expand their points holding with them. Mr S and Ms S agreed to purchase an additional 
40,000 points under the offer presented at a cost of £8,150. Ms S paid this using a 
Sainsburys credit card in her sole name.
In December 2021, using a professional representative (the PR), Ms S submitted a claim to 
Sainsburys under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. The PR said L had misrepresented the 
product to Mr S and Ms S. And it was those misrepresentations that persuaded them to 
agree to the purchase. They held Sainsburys jointly liable for the alleged misrepresentations 
under section 75 of the CCA (S75). In particular the PR said:
L told Mr S and Ms S that after three years, they would receive €100 per 1,000 points 
held to purchase property;
Mr S and Ms S were told they could rent out or sell the property back through L; and
The product was sold as an investment.
The PR say Mr S and Ms S werent contacted or offered property to purchase by L after 
expiry of the initial three years.
The PR also thought that as a consequence of the sales presentation and product 
purchased, the relationship between Ms S and Sainsburys was unfair under section 140A of 
the CCA (S140A). In particular, they said:
L hadnt explained that management charges associated with the new points 
purchased were at a rate higher than for points previously purchased and held;
the contract term was near perpetual;
there was unlimited liability for management charges which was concealed at the 
point of purchase;
there was no provision for withdrawal at a later date;
there was no secondary market to sell or dispose of the points;
contract terms were unduly onerous with incomplete disclosure made;
Ls sales presentation and the resultant purchase contract breached various 
legislation and regulations that apply; and
L pressured Mr S and Ms S to complete the purchase using aggressive commercial 
practices.
Sainsburys didnt uphold Ms Ss claim. They didnt think there was evidence to support a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation and further evidence requested from the PR hadnt 
been provided. Sainsburys also said Mr S and Ms S had exited the contract before expiry of 
the three years and there was no record of queries or complaints to L while the points were 
held. They said evidence from the time suggested Mr S and Ms S were happy with their 
purchase.
The PR complained to Sainsburys about the outcome of Ms Ss claim. But having reviewed 
what had happened, Sainsburys didnt think theyd done anything wrong in refusing the 
claim. So, the PR referred Ms Ss complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
considered everything that had happened together with the evidence provided. Having done 
so, they didnt think Sainsburys response was unfair or unreasonable.
Ms S didnt agree with our investigators findings, so the PR asked that her complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. In doing so, the PR provided a further 
detailed submission reiterating much of what had previously been said. They also referred to 
various other complaints and decisions issued by this service to support their belief that Ms 
Ss complaint should be upheld.
Having considered Ms Ss complaint, while I was inclined to reach the same outcome as our 
investigator, Id considered a number of issues which I dont feel were previously fully 
addressed and wanted to give both sides the chance to respond. So, I issued a provisional 
decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
The purchase here was completed using a credit card in Ms Ss sole name. So, while 
the timeshare product was purchased in joint names with her husband, Ms S is the 
only eligible claimant under the CCA and, as such, the only eligible complainant.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Ms 
S paid for the timeshare points with a credit card issued by Sainsburys, so it isnt in 
dispute that S75 applies here. This means that Ms S is afforded the protection 
offered to borrowers like her under those provisions. And as a result, Ive taken this 
section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 140A of the CCA (S140A) looks at the fairness of the relationship between 
Ms S and Sainsburys arising out of any credit agreement (taken together with any 
related agreements). And where the product purchased was funded under a credit 
agreement  here thats under a pre-existing credit card agreement - its deemed to 
be a related agreement. Only a court has the power to make a determination under 
S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair 
and reasonable. 
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint 
being considered here specifically relates to whether I believe Sainsburys treatment 
of Ms Ss claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information 
available. This service is not afforded powers to decide a legal claim. While the decision of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we 
do not provide a legal service. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Ms Ss timeshare experience
Based upon the information available, it seems Mr S and Ms S had maintained a long 
association with L dating back to 2003. The documents provided by the PR confirm 
they already held 252,001 points prior to completing the purchase in June 2017. Ive 
also seen evidence of bookings they made using the product(s) with L from 2003 up 
to the point of the purchase in 2017 and beyond. I appreciate their product holdings 
and benefits were likely to have varied over that period. But based upon this 
information, I think its reasonable to conclude Mr S and Ms S had a reasonably 
strong awareness about the products theyd purchased, how they operated and any 
associated costs. I also think its reasonable to conclude Mr S and Ms S were familiar 
with L (as a timeshare supplier) the format of their meetings and sales presentations, 
and their documentation. Particularly as the meeting in June 2017 certainly wasnt 
their first experience. 
Before I consider the various allegations, its relevant to say that Mr S and Ms S 
appear to have exited the timeshare product before expiry of the three-year period 
referred to in the purchase documentation from June 2017. Both the PR and 
Sainsburys have confirmed this. So, whether the term of the contract was perpetual 
or not - the contract does have an end date defined within the documentation - this 
no longer appears relevant for the purpose of the purchase in question.
Misrepresentation
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by L in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that L made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product in 
2017. In other words, that they told Ms S something that wasnt true in relation to one 
or more of any points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that these 
misrepresentations were material in inducing Ms S to enter the contract. This means 
I would need to be persuaded that Ms S reasonably relied on these false statements 
when deciding to buy the additional product points.
Allegations have been made specifically relating to the product sale referenced 
above. The difficulty I have is identifying what was actually said at the time of the 
sale. The PR have provided limited details and evidence to support the 
misrepresentations Ms S says L made, although I acknowledge she does say she 
was told these things. So, Ive thought about this alongside the limited evidence 
thats available from the time of her purchase.
Although not determinative of the matter, Ive not seen any specific evidence from the 
time of the sale, such as marketing material or any of the wider purchase 
documentation. Ive seen four pages of documents relating to the original purchase. 
Ive also seen a document headed Declaration of Treating Customers Fairly In a 
Compliant Sale Practice dated 12 June 2017 (The Declaration). It appears this was 
signed and initialled by Mr S and Ms S. Having considered these carefully, I cant see 
that they support what Ms S says she was told or that what was said amounted to 
misrepresentation.In particular:
the Memorandum of understanding dated 12 June 2017 and signed by Mr S 
and Ms S states, [] 3 years after the completion of the Purchase 
Agreement I/We may trade my/our [] points [] against any future 
properties that may become available for sale [] (emphasis added). The 
documentation appears to give no assurances or guarantees and is subject to 
availability. And theres no suggestion Mr S and Ms S would be proactively 
contacted by L;
theres no reference to the product being sold as an investment. In fact, the 
declaration (which Mr S and Ms S signed) states, I/We also understand that 
I/We have not entered into this purchase purely for a wider investment 
opportunity or financial gain; and
while it may have been a feature of the points purchased, there appears to be 
no contractual obligation (for L or Mr S and Ms S) to rent or sell any property 
associated with the points. The declaration states, [L] does not undertake the 
responsibility of guaranteeing any rental to third parties. In fact, the PR have 
confirmed Mr S and Ms S made no request or attempt to rent out their product 
holding.
Ultimately, I dont think the contract can have been marketed and sold as an 
investment contrary to The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010 (the TRs) simply because there might have been some 
inherent value to Mr S and Ms Ss membership. And in any event, Ive found nothing 
within the limited evidence provided to suggest L provided any assurances or 
guarantees about the future value of the product purchased other than the future 
exchange value, should they choose to use it against a property purchase. L would 
had to have presented the membership in such a way that used its investment 
element to persuade Mr S and Ms S to contract. Only then would it have fallen foul of 
the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday products as an investment, 
contrary to Regulation 14(3). 
The PR have emphasised that verbal representations form part of a purchase 
contract, regardless of whether theyre documented or not. But in considering the 
allegations, its also important to consider the documentary evidence from the time of 
the sale. Particularly where this may contradict any allegations in question.  On this 
basis, I cant reasonably conclude that L did misrepresent the product in the ways 
that have been alleged. And while I acknowledge what Ms S says, the documentary 
evidence from the time of the sale, which she signed, doesnt appear to support her 
own recollections.
The claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (Sainsburys) and the debtor 
(Ms S) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor). The PR have made various allegations they feel create an unfair relationship under 
S140A.
The pressured sale and process
The claim suggests Ms S was pressured into purchasing the product through the use 
of aggressive commercial practices. I acknowledge what the PR have said about this. 
So, I can understand why it might be argued that any prolonged presentation might 
have felt like a pressured sale  especially if, as Ms S approached the closing 
stages, she was going to have to make a decision on the day in order to avoid 
missing out on an offer that may not have been available at a later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Ms S agreed to the purchase in 2017 when she simply didnt 
want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that she went on to say 
something to L, after the purchase, to suggest shed agreed to it when she didnt 
want to. And neither the PR nor Ms S have provided a credible explanation for why 
she didnt subsequently seek to cancel the purchase within the 14-day cooling off 
period permitted here. 
If she only agreed to the purchase because she felt she was pressured, I find this 
aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest Ms S was obviously harassed or coerced into the purchase.  
Point 18 of the Declaration document signed and initialled by both Mr S and Ms S at 
the time of the sale says we have not been put under pressure or coerced to 
purchase the products and services. Mr S and Ms Ss handwritten note at the end 
of that document states, We were treated well. No pressures. Having considered all 
of this, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate Ms S made the 
decision to proceed because her ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have 
been  significantly impaired.
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
[Sainsburys] and matters relating to the debtor [Ms S).
Ms S already held existing timeshare product points shed purchased previously from 
L. Importantly; the new purchase appears to relate to an increase in her existing 
timeshare product holding. It wasnt simply a new product purchase. And Ms S 
wasnt a new customer of L. So, its likely she wouldve benefitted from her previous 
experience and what she might expect from the meeting and sales presentation in 
2017.
Whilst there could be potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations might 
have led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think any decision is likely to 
be taken within the context of Ms Ss overall experience. And even if I was to find that 
some of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make no such 
finding  I think its unlikely a court might say this led to a sufficiently extreme 
imbalance in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
The contract terms and alleged regulatory breaches
I understand the purchase agreement was subject to a 14-day cooling off period 
during which Mr S and Ms S could choose to cancel it without giving any reason and 
at no cost to themselves. So, even if I were to find that Mr S and Ms S werent given 
adequate opportunity to read, consider and understand the purchase documentation 
at the time of the sale - and I make no such finding - I would expect them to have had 
sufficient time in which to consider their decision within the subsequent 14 days. And, 
where appropriate, seek advice and raise any questions or concerns before payment 
was made and the purchase completed. Theres no suggestion or evidence that Mr S and Ms S did raise any questions or 
concerns prior to the sale being completed. Or that they had any intention of 
cancelling the agreement.
The Declaration signed by Mr S and Ms S includes various points. In particular:
oI/We acknowledge receipt of the Points Fee Schedule;
oI/We have been given every opportunity to consider the purchase; 
and
oI/We confirm that the following documents have been provided 
[including the] Purchase Agreement General Conditions.
Mr S and Ms S also handwrote, [the sales representative] explained to us the way in 
which the new purchase would work. He painstakingly went through it all with us.
One of the main aims of the various regulations that applied here was to enable 
consumers to understand the financial implications of their purchase so that they are 
put in a position to make an informed decision. If Ls disclosure and/or the terms of 
the purchase didnt recognise and reflect that aim, and Ms S ultimately lost out or 
almost certainly stands to lose out from having entered into a contract, the financial 
implications of which she didnt fully understand at the time of contracting, that may 
amount to unfairness under S140A.
However, having considered the limited documentation provided, I havent seen any 
evidence to support the breaches alleged here. And as the Supreme Court decision 
in Plevin1 makes clear, it doesnt automatically follow that regulatory breaches create 
unfairness for the purpose of S140A. Such breaches and their consequences (if 
there are any) must be looked at in the round, rather than in a narrow or technical 
way. In other words, if I were to find thered been regulatory breaches  and I make 
no such finding - they are only likely to lead to unfairness where theres evidence Ms 
S suffered loss as a consequence.
I havent seen any evidence that L enforced any of the terms within the product 
agreement to such an extent that they caused loss or resulted in unfairness. 
Was the appropriate relationship in place?
Under S75, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
that provision. And given the facts of this complaint, thats also the case when 
claiming under S140A. 
Sainsburys have pointed out that the beneficiary of the credit card payment differs to 
the supplier of the product purchased  L in this case. So, its possible that there was 
no such agreement in place. This is particularly relevant following the High Courts 
judgment in the recent case of Steiner v National Westminster Bank PLC [2022].
However, given the facts and circumstances of this complaint and my intended 
outcome with those in mind, I dont think its necessary to make a formal finding on 
the debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement for the purpose of this decision, because I 
dont think the complaint should succeed on its merits anyway.  
Summary
While I may not have referred to everything thats been said and provided in my 
decision, I would like to reassure Ms S that I have carefully considered every point 
raised in this complaint. Having done so, I havent found anything that persuades me 
that Sainsburys response to her claim was unfair or unreasonable. And because of 
that, I dont currently intend to ask Sainsburys to do anything more.
1 Plevin vs Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014] (Plevin)However, I will consider any new or additional evidence provided, such that its 
specific and relevant to the circumstances Ms Ss own experience and purchase, 
before reaching my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sainsburys confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and agreed with my findings. 
Despite follow up attempts by this service, neither the PR nor Ms S have provided any 
response to my provisional decision.
In the circumstances, and with no new evidence or information to consider, Ive no reason to 
vary from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman