DRN-2733623
The complaint
Miss W complains that three personal loans provided to her by Loans 2 Go Limited, trading 
as Loans 2 Go, (L2G), were unaffordable.
What happened
Miss W was given three loans by L2G from December 2019 to February 2020. The loans 
have been repaid.  A summary of Miss Ws borrowing history is as follows:-
Loan 
numberDate of loan Date of loan 
repaymentLoan 
amountNumber of 
monthly 
repaymentsMonthly 
repayment 
amounts
1. 20/12/2019 22/1/2020 £500 18 £114.28
2. 7/2/2020 12/2/2020 £400 18 £91.42
3. 20/2/2020 12/6/2020 £500 18 £114.28
In its final response letter, L2G said that it had conducted a thorough affordability 
assessment prior to approving the loans. It considered Miss Ws declared income which it 
verified via an income verification tool and it also reviewed Miss Ws credit file. L2G also 
considered Miss Ws declared expenditure, increased this following a review of her 
application, in addition to her credit file, and added a buffer of 10% of her declared income to 
her expenditure, as a buffer to account for any fluctuations in her monthly income or 
expenditure. After doing this, L2G said that the loan repayments on each loan would still 
have been affordable. L2G took into consideration all the available information whilst 
calculating the affordability of the loans taken out with it, and it was determined that Miss W 
had enough disposable income to afford her contractual instalments.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. With regard to    
Loan 1, he thought that L2Gs credit checks indicated that Miss W mayve been experiencing 
financial difficulties. And he thought it wouldve been proportionate for L2G to attempt to 
verify Miss Ws income and outgoings, in order to ensure the loan would be affordable. The 
adjudicator had reviewed Miss Ws bank statements but thought that Loan 1 still appeared to 
be affordable. The adjudicator didnt think Loans 2 and 3 were unaffordable based on L2Gs 
checks.
Miss W disagreed. She responded to say that she had a number of loans with other lenders 
and was reliant on borrowing. She said that all her previous complaints against lenders were 
upheld and so may have been removed from her credit file. She used L2G with its such high 
interest rates because she was desperate and was borrowing to fund debt and gambling. 
Miss W said that more checks should have been done by L2G including checking her bank 
statements and credit file.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss W 
and to L2G on 25 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that Miss W had referred to decisions by other lenders. But I explained that we 
assessed each case on its own merits and it wasnt appropriate to compare the outcomes of 
complaints as the circumstances could be very different.
Id said that when L2G lent to Miss W the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
L2G was entering into a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Miss Ws creditworthiness before it entered into the agreement. This meant 
that L2G had to consider both the risk to it that Miss W wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Miss W of not being able to make these 
repayments. 
In particular, L2G had to consider Miss Ws ability to make repayments under the agreement 
as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without her having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without her failing to make any other repayment she had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
her financial situation. 
The rules didnt set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
was down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wished to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what was appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower would be required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Ws case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Ws loan 
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did L2G make fair lending decisions? Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss Ws loan 
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
As set out above, L2G gathered some information from Miss W about her income and 
expenses before it agreed each loan. It also carried out a credit check.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £500. The interest rate was 207.6% (1,013.2% APR). The loan was to be 
repaid over 18 months with monthly repayments of £114.28. If Miss W made each payment 
when it was due, shed pay £2,057.04 in total.
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks before Loan 1. The lender would have been aware from 
these that Miss W wasnt in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement, she wasnt bankrupt and 
there were no county court judgements against her. There were also no defaulted accounts 
in the six months prior to the loan application. 
But, L2G would also likely have seen that Miss Ws current account had an overdraft limit of 
£500 but her overdrawn balance was only £49 less than this. She had a credit card on which 
the balance was £49 less than the £200 credit limit. In addition, this account had been 
subject to an arrangement to pay for the six months prior to Miss Ws application for Loan 1. 
Id noted that L2Gs file notes showed that it had no concerns about the arrangement to pay. 
I also noted that Miss W had repaid a short term loan for £200 a month earlier but this 
account was also subject to an arrangement to pay for the five months prior to repayment. I 
thought that two accounts each subject to a recent arrangement to pay ought to have 
reasonably caused concerns.
I also thought that L2G would likely have seen that Miss W had been continuously borrowing 
several loans for large amounts totalling around £39,000 (according to Miss Ws credit 
report) for around 21 months. I thought this showed a reliance on borrowing large amounts 
of credit. One loan (of around £6,145 according to Miss Ws credit report) taken out in          
April 2018 was repaid in February 2019 by a loan (of around £10,370 according to Miss Ws 
credit report) taken out the same day. The February 2019 loan was still being repaid at the 
time of Miss Ws application for Loan 1. Another loan of £10,000 taken out in April 2018 had 
been repaid in October 2018 by a loan (of £9,925 according to Miss Ws credit report) taken 
out on the day it was repaid. These four loans were provided by high cost credit providers. I 
thought Miss Ws need to borrow again on the day a previous loan was repaid on two 
occasions suggested a need to fill a hole in her finances that was made by making 
repayments to a lender as well as to borrow additional credit. This wasnt a sustainable form 
of borrowing. The size of these loans relative to Miss Ws income was also concerning. 
Altogether, I thought the results of its credit checks should have caused L2G concerns as        
Miss Ws finances appeared to be under pressure as shown especially by her relatively 
recent and ongoing need for large amounts of credit and her current account and one credit 
card being very near their respective credit limits. I didnt think L2G treated Miss W fairly 
when it agreed to lend to her based on the information it would have seen on its credit 
checks because this showed it was likely that agreeing more credit for her would simply add 
to her debt levels. 
I also noted that L2G had said in its final response letter that:-
When a lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees doesnt usually provide 
the same level of detail that a consumers credit report will, and it is not necessarily up to 
date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might 
be missing or anonymised. I am also aware that not all payday and short term lendersreport to the same credit reference agencies. You may have taken other payday or 
short term loans prior to the loan which may not have been identified by our credit check. 
This may explain any differences between the information provided by our credit check and 
your actual situation.
So, I could see that L2G was aware that its credit checks might not have revealed the full 
extent of Miss Ws credit commitments.
L2G was also aware that Miss W was entering into an expensive loan agreement. In her 
application Miss W had declared a monthly income of £2,400 and total expenses of £604 
including credit commitments of £251. Her declared living costs were £353 and it seemed 
that L2G had considered these to be low as it had increased her total expenses to £877.83. 
It also verified and reduced Miss Ws monthly income to £1,232.20, which was just over half 
of the amount shed declared. L2G added a buffer to Miss Ws adjusted expenses equal to 
10% of Miss Ws verified income, to account for any fluctuations in her monthly income or 
expenditure. 
But I thought L2G might have been concerned as to why someone with a relatively large 
amount of available income (according to Miss Ws declared income and expenses) would 
need to borrow expensive credit. L2G was aware that Miss Ws declared income and 
expenses left her with a disposable income of £1,796. This seemed unlikely given that she 
wanted to borrow £500. 
Looking at everything in the round, I didnt think it was reasonable for L2G to rely on the 
information provided by Miss W without verifying it. I thought L2G should reasonably have 
taken steps to gain a more thorough understanding of Miss Ws financial position in order to 
satisfy itself that she could repay the loan without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any contractual or statutory payments and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation. It could have done this by, for 
example, requesting additional bank statements from Miss W, asking for copies of bills 
and/or receipts for her expenses and by asking her for more information about her existing 
credit commitments. L2G didnt say that it took steps to do this, other than to verify Miss Ws 
income using an online income verification tool. So overall, I didnt think the checks L2G 
carried out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate. 
But that in itself didn't mean that Miss Ws complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown L2G that   
Miss W couldn't sustainably afford Loan 1. So, Id looked at Miss Ws credit report and bank 
statements to see what better checks would have shown L2G.
Loan 2
Miss W repaid Loan 1 around a month after taking it out. I could see from Miss Ws bank 
statements that it appeared to have been repaid with money lent by a friend. Miss W took 
out Loan 2 a little more than two weeks after repaying her previous loan. I thought L2G 
ought to have been concerned by her early repayment of Loan 1 and her need to borrow 
expensive credit again shortly after. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate 
that someone was facing problems managing their money. The loan amount had decreased 
to £400 but the new monthly loan repayments of £91.42 still needed to be repaid over 18 
months. The interest rate was 207.6%, (1,013.1% APR). If Miss W made each payment 
when it was due, shed pay £1,645.56 in total.
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks before Loan 2. As Miss Ws application for Loan 2 was 
made only six weeks after her application for Loan 1, the credit checks before the two loans 
were very similar and for similar reasons as for Loan 1 (in particular Miss Ws apparent ongoing reliance on large amounts of credit), I thought the checks should have caused L2G 
concerns. Id noted that the adjudicator said that L2Gs checks indicated a possible 
improvement in Miss Ws financial situation relative to Loan 1. But I didnt think this was 
necessarily the case. Whilst Miss Ws total credit balances might have been lower, this 
wasnt reflected in her current account balance. Her current account had an overdraft limit of 
£500 but her overdrawn balance was only £3 less than this and higher than shown in the 
checks before Loan 1. And as Id set out above, L2Gs credit checks might not have 
revealed the full extent of Miss Ws other credit commitments. 
In her loan application Miss W had declared a monthly income of £1,640 and total expenses 
of £1,022 including credit commitments of £252. I thought L2G ought to have questioned     
Miss W about the large difference between the amounts declared for Loan 2 and Loan 1 just 
six weeks earlier. L2G had increased her total expenses to around £1,330. It also verified 
and reduced Miss Ws monthly income to £1,425. L2G again added a buffer to Miss Ws 
adjusted expenses equal to 10% of Miss Ws verified income to account for any fluctuations 
in her monthly income or expenditure. 
But I thought L2G might have again been concerned as to why someone with a relatively 
large amount of available income (according to her declared income and expenses) would 
need to borrow expensive credit. L2G was aware that Miss Ws declared income and 
expenses left her with a disposable income of £618. This seemed unlikely given that she 
wanted to borrow £400. So, again in these circumstances I didnt think it was reasonable for 
L2G to rely on the information provided by Miss W without verifying it.
I again thought L2G should reasonably have taken steps to gain a more thorough 
understanding of Miss Ws financial position in order to satisfy itself that she could repay the 
loan without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
contractual or statutory payments and without the repayments having a significant adverse 
impact on her financial situation. I couldnt see that L2G took steps to do this, other than to 
verify Miss Ws income using an online tool. So overall, I didnt think the checks L2G carried 
out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate.
Loan 3
Miss W repaid Loan 2 five days after taking it out. I could see from Miss Ws bank statement 
that it appeared to have been repaid from money shed borrowed from another high cost 
credit provider two days earlier. Shed taken out Loan 3 eight days after repaying her 
previous loan. I thought L2G ought to have again been concerned by her early repayment of 
Loan 2 and her need to borrow expensive credit again shortly after. The loan amount had 
increased to £500 but the new monthly loan repayments of £114.28 still needed to be repaid 
over 18 months. The interest rate was 207.6%, (1,013.2% APR). If Miss W made each 
payment when it was due, shed pay £2,057.04 in total.
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks before Loan 3. As Miss Ws application for Loan 3 was only 
two months after her application for Loan 1, the credit checks were very similar (save that 
her current account was no longer in overdraft). But, for similar reasons to those set out 
above for Loan 1, (in particular Miss Ws apparent ongoing reliance on large amounts of 
credit), I again thought the checks should have caused L2G concerns. 
In her application Miss W had declared a monthly income of £1,640 and total expenses of 
£1,074 including credit commitments of £300. L2G had again increased Miss Ws total 
expenses to around £1,150. It also verified and reduced Miss Ws monthly income to £1,427. 
L2G again added a buffer to Miss Ws adjusted expenses equal to 10% of Miss Ws verified 
income, to account for any fluctuations in her monthly income or expenditure. But I thought L2G might have again been concerned as to why someone with a relatively 
large amount of available income (according to Miss Ws declared income and expenses) 
would need to borrow expensive credit. L2G was aware that Miss Ws declared income and 
expenses left her with a disposable income of £566. This seemed unlikely given that she 
wanted to borrow £500. So, in these circumstances I didnt think it was reasonable for L2G 
to rely on the information provided by Miss W without verifying it.
I again thought L2G should reasonably have taken steps to gain a more thorough 
understanding of Miss Ws financial position in order to satisfy itself that she could repay the 
loan without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
contractual or statutory payments and without the repayments having a significant adverse 
impact on her financial situation. I couldnt see that L2G took steps to do this, other than to 
verify Miss Ws income using an online tool. So overall, I didnt think the checks L2G carried 
out before Loan 3 were reasonable and proportionate.
Although I didnt think that L2G carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
Loans 1 to 3, that in itself didn't mean that Miss Ws complaint should succeed. I also 
needed to be persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have 
shown L2G that Miss W couldn't sustainably afford Loans 1 to 3. So, Id looked at Miss Ws 
credit report and bank statements to see what better checks would have shown L2G.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did L2G make fair 
lending decisions? 
Id thought about what L2G wouldve seen if it had done what I considered to be 
proportionate checks. 
Miss W had provided her credit report and her bank statements from around the time she 
applied for Loans 1 to 3. Id reviewed these to understand what her income, living costs, and 
credit commitments were around that time. Id also taken into account her borrowing and 
spending patterns to get a better picture of her financial situation. I wasnt suggesting that 
these were the checks that L2G should have done. But I thought looking at her credit report 
and bank statements gave me the best picture of Miss Ws wider circumstances which the 
lender would have likely seen if it had made better checks. 
Loan 1
I thought if L2G had made better checks, it was likely to have seen that Miss Ws monthly 
income was far less than shed declared at around £1,640. She also had substantially more 
debt than shed said. She was paying over half of her monthly income (around £910) in 
credit repayments. By gathering further information, L2G would likely have found that      
Miss W was paying rent of £462 and her other living costs were around £380. So, I thought 
L2G was likely to have found that Miss W didnt have sufficient disposable income to make 
her loan repayments if it had made better checks.
L2G would also have seen that Miss W was persistently overdrawn (save for three days after 
shed been paid), and near or over her overdraft limit for most of the month. Miss W was also 
paying daily overdraft fees and there were several returned direct debits. I could also see 
that Miss Ws current account balance was £43 under her overdraft limit on the day before 
shed applied for Loan 1. There was also some evidence of gambling. A wider selection of 
bank statements showed a similar story. I thought all this showed that Miss Ws financial 
circumstances were somewhat strained and would likely have caused L2G concerns had it 
made better checks before lending Loan 1 to Miss W. In Miss Ws circumstances, I thought it 
would have seen that there were indications of financial difficulty and there was a significant 
risk that she wouldnt have been able to make her loan repayments without borrowing further or the payments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation. So, I wasnt 
persuaded that L2G had acted fairly in providing Loan 1 to Miss W.
Loans 2 and 3
I thought if L2G had made better checks before Loans 2 and 3, it was likely to have seen 
that Miss W had significantly more debt than shed said and more than it had seen in its own 
credit checks. In January 2020, Miss W borrowed seven short term loans totalling £2,200. In 
early February 2020 she borrowed another short term loan for £500. Between                 
Loans 2 and 3, she borrowed a further high cost credit loan and four more short term loans 
totalling £3,880. Some of these loans would have been repayable at the same time as  
Loans 2 and 3. In addition, I could see that she was repaying existing credit of around £900 
in January 2020. I could also see that Miss W borrowed £1,500 from a friend in           
January 2020. 
I also noted that Miss W was making gambling transactions totalling around a third of her 
income in January 2020. 
I thought the gambling, further high cost credit and large number of short term loans 
suggested that there were indications that Miss W was having serious difficulties managing 
her money and there was a significant risk that she wouldnt have been able to make her 
loan repayments on Loans 2 and 3 without borrowing further or the payments having a 
significant adverse impact on her financial situation. So, I didnt think L2G acted fairly in 
providing Loans 2 and 3 to Miss W.
Less than three weeks after taking out Loan 3, Miss W contacted L2G to say that she was 
having financial difficulties and couldnt afford her repayments. She provided L2G with 
information to show her disposable income was just £86. I understood Loan 3 was then 
repaid in June 2020 with money borrowed from a relative. 
So, I intended to say that L2G treated Miss W unfairly when it agreed to lend Loans 1 to 3 to 
her. And subject to any further representations by Miss W or L2G my provisional decision 
was that I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order L2G to put things right as 
follows. 
Putting things right  what L2G needs to do 
As I intend to conclude that L2G was irresponsible to have lent to Miss W, she shouldnt 
have to pay any interest, fees or charges for Loans 1 to 3. 
So L2G should:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Miss W for Loans 1 to 3;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file in relation to  
Loans 1 to 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give   
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
Miss W responded to my provisional decision to say that she had no further information to 
add and agreed with my provisional decision.L2G disagreed with my provisional decision. It said that it appreciated all the points that Id 
raised. It thought that it would be helpful to provide a detailed explanation of how it 
processed loan applications and made its lending decisions. 
L2G explained, in summary, that when processing loan applications, a series of stringent 
checks were carried out to determine whether the personal and financial information 
provided by the applicant was accurate and/or reliable. L2G also considered how well the 
applicant had managed historical credit (from information obtained from a credit reference 
agency (CRA)) and the applicants available financial information. 
The lender also noted that recently obtained credit may not be visible to the lender at the 
time of the application. It also used information from the CRA to verify the applicants bank 
account and their declared income and credit liability. L2G also made use of statistical 
information on UK consumer average expenditure to determine what amount of expenditure 
was deemed reasonable. 
In addition, L2G said that the extent of the checks may be based on several risk factors such 
as the amount being lent, the cost of lending, and the applicants disposable income. It also 
said that Miss Ws credit reports were on the whole very positive. Whist it admitted there was 
some adverse information on the credit file, this would normally be expected given the type 
of lending that it provided.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
I note that L2G provided more information about its checks and processes in response to my 
provisional decision. It also admitted that there was some adverse information on Miss Ws 
credit file, although it said that this would be normally expected given the type of lending it 
provided.
As Ive set out above, L2G had to carry out a reasonable assessment of Miss Ws 
creditworthiness before it entered into the loan agreements. It had to consider the risk to 
Miss W of not being able to make the loan repayments. In particular, L2G had to consider 
Miss Ws ability to make repayments under the agreement as they fell due over the life of the 
agreement, without her having to borrow to meet the repayments, without her failing to make 
any other repayment she had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse effect on her financial situation. 
Ive also said above that I thought the results of L2Gs credit checks on each of the loans 
should have caused the lender concerns as Miss Ws finances appeared to be under 
pressure as shown especially by her relatively recent and ongoing need for large amounts of 
credit. I didnt think L2G treated Miss W fairly when it agreed to lend to her based on the 
information it would have seen on its credit checks because this showed it was likely that 
agreeing more credit for her would simply add to her debt levels. I could also see that L2G 
was aware that its credit checks might not have revealed the full extent of Miss Ws credit 
commitments. And I didnt think it was reasonable for L2G to rely on the information provided 
by Miss W without verifying it. I thought L2G should reasonably have taken steps to gain a 
more thorough understanding of Miss Ws financial positionI note L2G has provided information about its checks with the CRA and its use of statistical 
information. But bearing in mind what L2G saw on its credit checks and as Miss W was 
entering into commitments to make her monthly loan repayments for relatively long periods 
of time, I dont think it was sufficient in Miss Ws circumstances for L2G to rely on statistical 
information about her expenditure as well as credit information from the CRA, that it said 
may not be up to date or comprehensive, in order for it to have a clear understanding of  
Miss Ws finances at the time of her applications. 
I also appreciate that L2G had used higher expenditure figures compared to the amounts 
Miss W had declared at the time of her applications. I think this shows it wasnt confident in 
the information Miss W had provided. But I also dont think that the lender could be confident 
that the adjusted figures were accurate either. And I dont think that L2Gs checks were 
enough here for the lender to be confident that Miss W would be able to make her loan 
repayments over the life of the agreements, without her having to borrow further or suffering 
other adverse financial impacts. 
As Ive said above, if L2G had made better checks, it would have likely seen that there was a 
significant risk that Miss W wouldnt have been able to make her loan repayments without 
borrowing further or the payments having a significant adverse impact on her financial 
situation. 
So, the additional information L2G has provided in response to my provisional decision 
hasnt persuaded me that I should change my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold 
this complaint and require L2G to pay Miss W some compensation and take the steps as set 
out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as Loans 2 Go, to:-
1. Refund any interest and charges paid by Miss W for Loans 1 to 3;
2. Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
3. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file in relation to  
Loans 1 to 3.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give  
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman