DRN-3490866
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) blocked his account which prevented him 
from placing winning bets.
What happened
Mr M says he used his account card to place a bet on 27 November 2021. He says he tried 
to use it again, but the account was blocked. Mr M says he received a text message from 
BoS and was told he could use the account after waiting 10 minutes. But says he tried to 
place two further bets, and the account was still blocked. Mr M says those bets would have 
been successful and he has lost £700. He says he was allowed to lose £3,500 with the same 
company earlier in 2021 and would like BoS to pay him the lost profit.
BoS says its entitled to block a transaction or account where it has security concerns. It 
says its systems blocked Mr Ms transaction and says he needed to speak to it before the 
block could be removed. BoS says it cant tell if a payment is for a winning transaction and 
hasnt made a mistake as it acted in line with account terms and conditions.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought BoS had acted in line with 
account terms and conditions by blocking a payment where there were security concerns. 
The investigator accepted that BoSs text message didnt tell Mr M that the account 
remained blocked after he responded to it and accepted he had been caused inconvenience 
in contacting it. The investigator recommended BoS pay £75 compensation for that part of 
the complaint.
BoS accepts the investigators view but Mr M doesnt. He says the compensation is an insult 
and says BoS didnt tell him the account was still blocked despite him responding to its text 
message.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold the main part of this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and accept this was his 
money as well as account.
I am sure Mr M appreciates that banks and building societies must have security measures 
in place to protect its and its customers money. I accept on occasions legitimate transactions 
can be made subject to security measures which inevitably cause those legitimate 
customers inconvenience. But Im satisfied that having looked carefully at BoSs account 
terms and conditions, which I think Mr M would have agreed to when the account was first 
opened, that it makes clear that it may block an account or apply security measures where it 
has security concerns. Im satisfied that it what took place here in November 2021 that Mr 
Ms attempted payment triggered those security measures. And so it follows that I dont think 
BoS acted unfairly or made a mistake and acted in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions. In those circumstances I cant fairly order BoS to reimburse Mr M for the lost 
winnings caused by the security blocks.
I appreciate what Mr M says about the communication from BoS, that there was no mention 
of having to call it after the he had confirmed it was him. But Im sure Mr M appreciates that 
there are levels of security measures and on occasions a business needs to speak with its 
customers. I think in any event that Mr M did speak with BoS and would have had to do so, 
even if he was told that in a message.
I also appreciate that Mr M was caused inconvenience in contacting BoS but am satisfied 
that BoS has fairly agreed to pay £75 compensation for that part of the complaint. I can see 
that Mr M feels strongly about that award amount, and I make clear that it is in respect of the 
inconvenience rather than for the main complaint. I think that award is appropriate for the 
inconvenience in calling BoS and waiting for the block to be removed.
Overall, I find BoS acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions and so I cant fairly 
order it to repay Mr M the amount of the missed bets. I dont think it matters that Mr M was 
able to place a bet with the same business in June 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of the complaint and that Bank of 
Scotland plc has fairly agreed to pay a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £75 for 
the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman