DRN-4000541
The complaint
Miss T complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In January 2020 Miss T was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car was 2 years old and had covered around 
26,000 miles.
In or around January 2021 Miss T experienced issues with the gears not changing smoothly. 
She had the car checked at a garage in May 2021 who advised her that the gearbox oil was 
low. The gearbox was checked for leaks, but none were found. The oil was topped up.
Miss T drove the car without any issues until November 2021 when the issues started again.
In March 2022 Miss T complained to MotoNovo. MotoNovo didnt uphold the complaint. It 
said there wasnt any evidence that the fault was present or developing at the point of 
supply.
Miss T obtained an independent report. MotoNovo reviewed this but said the engineers 
comments were speculative. 
Miss T remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I wasnt upholding the complaint. I explained 
that the Consumer Rights Act was relevant to the complaint and that, because the fault had 
occurred outside of the first 6 months after the point of supply, it was up to Miss T to provide 
evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I reviewed all of the engineering evidence. I said I accepted that the report dated 6 May 2021 
found the gearbox oil to be low and that the gearbox was noisy. But I noted that the report 
didnt mention that the gears were slipping or that the gears wouldnt change smoothly. I said 
that at its highest, this report established that the transmission oil was lower than it should 
have been and that the gearbox was noisy. But the report didnt establish a causal link 
between the two.
I also reviewed the independent report dated April 2022. The engineer who road tested the 
car said that the gearbox was noisy and that he had difficulty changing gear. The engineer 
concluded that the gearbox was noisier than expected and said this may be attributable to 
the car being driven with a lack of oil in the gearbox, but he said this could only be confirmed 
by stripping and examining the gearbox to see if evidence of under lubrication could be 
found. The engineer didnt comment on whether the fault would have been present or 
developing at the point of supply.
I explained that I found the independent report to be inconclusive as to what had caused the 
gearbox to be noisy, and that the engineers reference to a lack of oil was speculative only 
and made it clear that further investigation was required. I said that on the basis of what Id 
seen in the reports, I wasnt able to safely conclude that the gearbox issues were caused by 
low oil.
I also explained that Id taken into account the fact that Miss T had driven the car for 17 
months and had covered around 16,000 miles before the gearbox issues presented. I said 
that because Miss T was able to travel 16,000 miles before the low oil level was discovered, 
and because there wasnt any engineering evidence to conclusively link the low oil to the 
issues with the gearbox, I wasnt persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise. 
Miss T responded at length. She made the point that MotoNovo had been offered the 
opportunity to inspect the gearbox and didnt think it was fair that it hadnt been inspected.  
She also said (amongst other things) that the gearbox was a sealed unit and that the 
gearbox oil mustve been low at the point of supply because no leak was found by the 
garage. Miss T said she felt that the statement from the supplying dealer that they hadnt 
checked the gearbox oil before selling the car to her meant that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further points made by Miss T. I appreciate that the gearbox is a 
sealed unit and that the transmission oil shouldnt need to be topped up unless there is a 
leak. However, even if I were to accept that the gearbox oil was low when the car was 
supplied, that of itself doesnt mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Theres no 
engineering evidence conclusively linking the issues with the gearbox to low transmission oil. 
Without a causal link, I cant safely conclude that the gearbox issues were caused by low oil.
I appreciate that Miss T thinks the gearbox should have been inspected. The independent 
engineer recommended that the gearbox was stripped and inspected. I cant see that Miss T 
took any steps to arrange this. I dont agree with Miss T that its for MotoNovo to arrange this, 
because under the relevant legislation, the onus is on Miss T to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Further, I dont think there is anything to be gained by inspecting the 
gearbox now, as I understand it has been removed from the car.
Having considered Miss Ts further points, my decision hasnt changed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman