DRN-3363756
The complaint
Miss B complains that AWP P&C SA has turned down a cancellation claim she made on a 
travel insurance policy.
Miss Bs represented by Mr B.
What happened
In January 2019, Miss B booked a holiday abroad. She was due to travel between 24 
February and 9 March 2020. She took out an annual travel insurance policy alongside her 
booking, which was due to renew on 16 January 2020.
Subsequently, in December 2019, Miss B was invited to an NHS mammogram as part of its 
free national screening service. Her appointment took place on 14 January 2020. The travel 
insurance policy renewed as planned on 16 January 2020. On the same day, the NHS sent 
Miss B a further letter inviting her for further testing a few days later. Unfortunately, on 22 
January 2020, Miss B was diagnosed with breast cancer and needed to start urgent 
treatment. So Miss B had to cancel her trip and made a claim on her travel insurance policy 
for the costs associated with cancellation.
AWP turned down Miss Bs claim. It said that Miss Bs policy specifically excluded cover for 
pre-existing medical conditions. It considered that as Miss B had undergone a mammogram 
on 14 January 2020, shed been waiting for test results at the point her policy renewed two 
days later. It stated that she hadnt gone through medical screening at renewal to declare the 
mammogram and it hadnt agreed cover. So it concluded that Miss Bs illness was a pre-
existing condition which was therefore excluded by the policy terms.
Miss B was unhappy with AWPs decision and so Mr B asked us to look into her complaint.
Despite repeated requests for AWPs business file, it didnt provide us with this information. 
So our investigator assessed the complaint based on the information Mr B had sent us on 
Miss Bs behalf. She didnt think it had been fair for AWP to turn down Miss Bs claim. She 
was satisfied that Miss B had been invited for a routine screening  there was no evidence to 
suggest the mammogram had been booked because of any identified medical issue. 
Therefore, she didnt think Miss B needed to declare this to AWP. And she didnt think Miss 
B couldve known that the follow-up tests would result in her ultimate diagnosis. The 
investigator also thought AWPs handling of the claim had caused Miss B additional distress 
at an already upsetting time. Overall, she recommended that AWP should pay Miss Bs 
claim, together with £150 compensation. She later let AWP know that she thought interest 
should be added to the claims settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
claim until the date of payment.
AWP didnt respond to our assessment and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for AWP to turn down Miss Bs claim and Ill explain 
why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Miss Bs policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether AWP treated 
Miss B fairly. 
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Miss Bs 
contract with AWP. The cancellation section of the policy does cover cancellation due a 
policyholders severe illness. But this section also excludes claims if a policyholder doesnt 
comply with AWPs health declaration and health exclusions, which are set out on pages 13 
and 14 of the policy. So Ive next considered the health declaration and health exclusions 
which AWP has set out. The policy says:
If you make a claim arising from a medical condition that has not been declared and 
accepted by us, it is unlikely that your claim will be paid.
It is very important that you read the following and declare any existing medical conditions to 
us.
1 You will not be covered for any directly or indirectly related claims (see note at the end of 
this section) arising from the following if in the 12 months before taking out this insurance or 
booking your journey (whichever is later), you
a have been prescribed medication,
b have received treatment or attended a medical practitioner for any medical condition,
c have attended a hospital or a clinic as an out-patient or in-patient,
d have been referred for tests, investigations, treatment, surgery or are awaiting results
e have been diagnosed as having a terminal illness
Unless you have declared any existing medical conditions to us and we have confirmed 
cover in writing.
In this case, AWP has concluded that as Miss B was waiting for the results of her 
mammogram when the policy renewed, she was waiting for test results and should therefore 
have declared this to its screening line. Ive thought carefully about this. On a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms, Miss Bs mammogram was a test and she hadnt received 
the results of it at the point the policy renewed. So Ive gone on to consider whether it was 
fair and reasonable for AWP to conclude that Mis Bs circumstances fell within the scope of 
this clause.
Like the investigator, Ive looked closely at the contents of the letter the NHS breast 
screening service sent Miss B on 16 December 2019. Ive set out what I think are the key 
sentences below:
Welcome to NHS breast screening. We would like to invite you for your free 
mammogramsScreening aims to find breast cancer early when successful treatment is 
more likely
To help you decide whether to come for screening please read the enclosed leaflet.
In my view, the contents of this letter supports Miss Bs testimony  that this was a routine 
NHS screening to which shed been invited, rather than a referral for a mammogram following a specific concern about Miss Bs health.  Ive also placed significant weight on the 
medical certificate completed by Miss Bs GP. This states that the onset date of Miss Bs 
symptoms was 22 January 2020  the date of her cancer diagnosis. And the GP stated that 
Miss B hadnt been undergoing investigations or waiting for test results on the date the policy 
was issued. 
As such then, the available medical evidence doesnt suggest that Miss B had previously 
suffered any potential symptoms of breast cancer. And theres no indication that the GP had 
referred her for a mammogram or any other investigation into any existing symptom. In fact, 
the medical evidence tends to suggest that Miss B wasnt suffering from any identifiable 
symptoms up until her date of diagnosis. On this basis, I dont think Miss B ought reasonably 
to have known or thought that AWP would want to know about a routine screening shed 
been invited to. I say that because it seems Miss B understood this to be a standard, routine 
check. And it appears she had little to no medical reason to believe a serious finding might 
result from the screening. This means I think it was reasonable for Miss B to conclude that 
she didnt fall within the scope of the health declaration and therefore didnt need to tell AWP 
about the mammogram on 14 January 2020.
I accept that the NHS sent a follow-up letter to Miss B, dated 16 January 2020, inviting her 
for further testing. And I acknowledge that this was the same date that the policy renewed. 
But I see no reason to doubt Miss Bs testimony that she didnt receive this letter until 17 
January 2020, taking into account the postal service. So I dont think shed have likely known 
about the more specific follow-up shed been invited to at the point of renewal. And therefore 
I dont think she couldve been expected to tell AWP about something she wasnt aware of.
Even if I were to take the view that Miss B did receive the second NHS letter before the 
policy renewed though, I still wouldnt think it was fair for AWP to turn down this claim. I say 
that because the letter says:
Some women who come for breast screening need further tests before we can give them a
screening result. This happens to about 4 in every 100 women. Most women who come to 
an assessment clinic do not have breast cancer.
Given the letter suggests that most women who need further assessment following 
screening dont have breast cancer, Im not persuaded Miss B wouldve considered it likely 
that a serious diagnosis likely could result from the assessment. And so I still wouldnt have 
reasonably expected her to contact AWPs screening line at this point.
Overall, I think the overall medical evidence supports that Miss B wasnt aware that she was 
suffering from a medical condition until 22 January 2020  eight days after the policy had 
renewed. And as Ive set out above, I dont think she could have reasonably known or ought 
to have known that AWP would want to know about a routine screening, which hadnt been 
prompted by any existing symptoms. This means I dont find it was fair and reasonable for 
AWP to treat Miss Bs routine mammogram as a pre-existing medical condition or to have 
expected her to disclose this test to it. Therefore, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for 
AWP to turn down Miss Bs cancellation claim.
Its also clear that AWPs handling of this claim caused Miss B additional distress and upset 
at a time when she was already dealing with a serious and worrying diagnosis. In this case, I 
dont think it was reasonable for AWP to have reached the claims decision it did or that the 
medical evidence supported its position. And I consider that this led to Miss B suffering 
unnecessary frustration and anxiety. So I agree with the investigator that its appropriate for 
AWP to pay Miss B compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset it caused her and 
Im satisfied £150 is a fair amount on the facts of this case.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to settle Miss Bs claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy and any applicable excesses. It must add interest to the settlement at an annual 
rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of payment. If AWP considers it needs 
to deduct income tax from the interest, it should provide Miss B with appropriate 
documentation for HMRC purposes.
I also direct AWP to pay Miss B compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman