DRN-2588888
The complaint
Mr C complains Saga Services Limited recorded his date of birth incorrectly when quoting 
him for car insurance. Hes also unhappy how long it took to refund him and that he received 
policy documents after the policy was cancelled.
What happened
Mr C asked Saga for a car insurance quote. After receiving the quotation Mr C called Saga 
to accept and paid the annual policy premium upfront.
But Saga got Mr Cs date of birth wrong when it initially recorded his details. And once 
amended, the cost of the policy significantly increased. Saga cancelled Mr Cs policy before 
the period of cover started and refunded him in full.
Mr C complained to Saga. His main complaint points are:
- hes unhappy Saga entered his date of birth incorrectly and that by doing so, it 
has committed fraud
- it took too long to refund him once the policy was cancelled
- he was caused upset, frustration and physical stress as a result of Sagas errors
Saga investigated Mr Cs concerns and upheld his complaint in part. It confirmed Mr C 
provided his correct date of birth over the telephone. It acknowledged its advisor had input 
Mr Cs year of birth wrong when compiling the quote. Saga also acknowledged its advisor 
could have confirmed Mr Cs details back to him which, may have stopped the error.
Saga also said it was too late to stop the policy documents being issued to Mr C, despite the 
policy being cancelled. But it said its advisor should have let him know this was the case 
which would have prevented any confusion. By way of apology for their errors and the upset 
caused Saga offered Mr C £70.00 compensation.
But Saga disagreed itd committed fraud  instead reiterating it was an error by its advisor 
when the policy was set up. And Saga said itd processed a full refund to Mr C correctly 
without delay on its part. 
Mr C didnt accept Sagas offer and asked us to look at his complaint.
Our investigator thought Saga had done enough to resolve Mr Cs complaint. In summary 
she was satisfied Mr Cs date of birth being recorded incorrectly was a human error and felt 
that by refunding Mr C the cost of the policy in full, Saga had put him back in the position he 
wouldve been in had the error not occurred. 
Our investigator also thought the £70.00 compensation offered by Saga was fair in the 
circumstances of the complaint. Mr C didnt agree. He reiterated Saga had committed fraud. 
Mr C asked for an ombudsmans decision. So this complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for the following 
reasons.
Mr C telephoned Saga to get a quote for car insurance. After the call, Saga sent him a 
quotation through the post for him to review. Mr C telephoned Saga again to let it know he 
was happy to proceed with the premium quoted.
Its not in dispute the date of birth on which the premium was based was incorrect. Saga 
input the wrong year of birth for Mr C. Saga have acknowledged it made that error and this 
ultimately this led to a far cheaper quote being provided to Mr C than it could ever offer him.
 
I understand Mr C feels strongly Saga entered his date of birth incorrectly in an attempt to 
commit fraud, but I dont agree. Ive listened to the call Mr C made to Saga, and Im satisfied 
its advisor made a genuine error.
Saga have acknowledged it wouldve been prudent for its advisor to have confirmed Mr Cs 
details back to him. I agree. Its likely that this wouldve prevented the error from occurring. 
But just as importantly, the written quotation Mr C received asked him to check both the 
insurance and personal details recorded were and to contact Saga if any were incorrect. 
However, Mr C acknowledges he didnt read the quote in full before calling to accept. Had he 
done, its reasonable to assume he wouldve noticed the error before he took the policy out. 
Ultimately, the premium quoted based on the incorrect date of birth was never available to 
Mr C. And when Saga realised this, they agreed to provide him a full refund. Im satisfied 
Saga have acted fairly by doing so. 
Ive listened to Mr Cs concerns that Saga delayed the refund of the premium he paid. But I 
dont agree. When accepting the refund Mr C was told it could take between three and ten 
days for the funds to credit back to his card. Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr C didnt receive 
a full refund within the timescale quoted.
Ive next thought about the policy documents Mr C received after receiving a notice of 
cancellation. I agree this must have been confusing. And Saga have acknowledged Mr C 
shouldve been made aware it was too late to stop these documents being sent.
Saga offered Mr C £70 compensation. I understand this isnt what Mr C wants. But Im 
satisfied Saga took the right actions to correct the error its advisor made. 
Thats not to say I think Mr C hasnt been affected by what happened; he clearly has, but I 
think Sagas offer of £70 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Cs 
complaint. 
Putting things right
Saga should pay Mr C the £70 it originally offered him in September 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman