DRN-1472819
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Santander UK Plc ("Santander" trading at the time of sale as Abbey 
National) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D bought the policy in November 1997 at the same time as they arranged a 
mortgage. The insurance was sold to them in a meeting. The MPPI policy was set up in both 
Mr and Mrs D's name but Mr D would receive 100% of the benefit. This was later amended 
to 75% with Mrs D covered for 25% of the benefit provided.
Mr and Mrs D say Santander mis-sold the policy to them. They say they do not recall being 
told about the MPPI policy.  
Our adjudicator upheld Mr and Mrs D's complaint. Santander didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ds case.
From what i know of sales that took place at around that time face to face, Santander would 
have recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs D. This means they needed to ensure the 
policy was suitable for them. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint because i don't think it was suitable. I say 
this because the policy wouldnt pay disability benefit in connection with any medical 
conditions that the customer knew about when they bought the policy. I think this would have 
mattered to Mr and Mrs D because Mr D had a medical condition which wouldnt have been 
covered. So he couldnt have claimed on the policy for everything he expected to be 
covered.
I dont think Mr and Mrs D would have bought the policy if theyd been told the policy was 
unsuitable for them. So, I think Mr and Mrs D have lost out because of what the business did 
wrong.
Ive noted what Santander has recently said about Mr Ds condition, and that they would 
require more supporting evidence from them about it.
Im mindful that the MPPI sale took place many years ago, and I dont think its reasonable 
to expect Mr D to provide any more evidence of the severity of his condition and how 
it affected him at the point of sale. Mr and Mrs Ds recollections have been consistent throughout their complaint, and I dont think its unreasonable for me to accept what they 
say.
So I still think I should uphold Mr and Mrs D's complaint. On balance, I conclude that the 
policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs D for the reasons given above.
fair compensation
Santander should put Mr and Mrs D in the financial position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out MPPI. I understand the policy has been cancelled. So Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs D the amount they paid each month for the MPPI policy.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.+
If Mr and Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy it can take off what 
they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 
+ HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they 
ask for one.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander UK Plc to pay compensation to 
Mr and Mrs D in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman