DRN-3135779
The complaint
Mr Y complains that he was unable to access his Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money account.
What happened
Mr Y says he was unable to access his Virgin Money account on 6 April 2021. He says he 
needed to pay bills that day and later found out Virgin Money had an account problem that 
day that affected mobile and online banking. Mr Y says he had to borrow money for food and 
the problem caused him stress. He says Virgin Money dismissed his complaint and told him 
he had tried to log in before the known system problem. Mr Y would like compensation for 
what took place.
Virgin Money says its apologised for the inconvenience Mr Y was caused and says it had a 
system problem for about four hours that day. It says it didnt suggest Mr Y hadnt tried to log 
in when the systems failed but pointed out it did have a record of an attempted login before 
the problem.
Mr Y brought his complaint to us and in answer to the investigators questions says he 
needed access to his money to make a one-off car finance payment of £900 and needed to 
borrow money from friends and family. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and 
thought Virgin Money had fairly apologised for what took place and didnt think it suggested 
Mr Y hadnt tried to log on at the time of the systems problem. The investigator didnt think 
Mr Y used the Virgin Money account regularly and didnt think there was evidence of the 
£900 being paid.
Mr Y doesnt accept that view and says his main complaint is the lack of account access.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
There is no dispute here that on 6 April 2021 Virgin Money systems failed which meant for 
about four hours its customers were unable to use online banking or use a mobile banking 
application. I appreciate that Mr Y would have been caused some inconvenience in those 
circumstances, but Im satisfied that Virgin Money has fairly apologised for what took place. I 
also think that other forms of banking would still have been available to Mr Y such as 
attending a branch or using telephone banking.
I appreciate that Mr Y says he needed to pay bills that day and so borrowed money and also 
wanted to make a one-off payment towards car finance. I have looked at Mr Ys account 
statements and I dont think this was an account that was used regularly. And I dont think it 
clear why Mr Y wished to use the money in his Virgin Money account that day as I have not 
seen any evidence of the finance payment being made or evidence of any borrowed money 
being returned. In any event Im satisfied that Mr Y would have had access to his Virgin 
Money account before the close of the working day on 6 April 2021 as the systems appear to 
have been sorted out by the afternoon.
Overall, I have not seen any evidence of financial loss suffered by Mr Y as a result of what 
took place and based on the evidence I have seen, this was an account hardly used by him. 
Im satisfied that any inconvenience is likely to have been fairly minor which doesnt justify 
compensation. And I dont think Virgin Money suggested Mr Y hadnt tried to log in when 
there was a problem but pointed out that there was evidence of a failed login before the 
known issue started.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman