DRN-4208160
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the delay he experienced with CIGNA Life Insurance Company of 
Europe SA-NV paying his claims. Hes also unhappy with the service he received during that 
time. 
What happened
Mr G had private medical insurance with CIGNA. He first brought a complaint to this service 
in early 2022. It was decided as part of that complaint that CIGNA needed to pay Mr Gs 
claims for his shoulder and back injuries. 
This complaint is about what happened after our previous decision and in particular, the 
delays and reassessment of his spine and shoulder claim. To be clear, Ive not considered 
the merits of the previous case because that was settled separately. 
Mr G said it took too long for CIGNA to reassess and pay his claim for his spinal injury. Hes 
also unhappy because he had to resend a lot of information CIGNA already had. Mr G 
explained he had a similar experience with his shoulder claim because CIGNA took so long 
to arrange that too. He said CIGNA failed to provide a guarantee of payment to the treating 
clinic which meant he had to pay the cost upfront and that caused him extreme worry and 
upset. Mr G also complained about other service-related issues where call backs from 
managers went unfulfilled alongside other subsidiary customer service problems. 
CIGNA acknowledged there were errors made in handling the claim. It also agreed the 
service offered to Mr G was poor, in particular, requests to speak to managers went largely 
unfulfilled, as too did many of his emails. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint in part. He said CIGNA hadnt caused any 
unreasonable delays assessing the spinal claim, however, there were delays settling it. He 
acknowledged CIGNA made an error when it attempted to pay Mr G which caused 
unnecessary delays. 
Our investigator also said CIGNA hadnt caused any unnecessary delays assessing Mr Gs 
shoulder claim. He said itd sent the surgery approval to pay all reasonable costs for the 
treatment well before the surgery was due to take place. However, the hospital decided to 
verify that document the day before Mr Gs intended treatment only for CIGNA to be unable 
to verify its authenticity. And so, Mr G had to pay those costs and claim them back later. Our 
investigator recommended CIGNA pay Mr G £500 for the overall distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
CIGNA agreed with the recommendation, but Mr G didnt. In summary, Mr G said the 
compensation isnt enough given the severity of the errors and the impact they had. Mr G 
said this is against a backdrop of constant failures by CIGNA and even when instructed to 
carry out remedial action for the previous issues, its still unable to get things right. And so, 
its for me to make a final decision on whether the compensation recommended is fair.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it for the same reasons explained by our investigator. 
I also think the investigators recommendation of £500 compensation for the overall distress 
and inconvenience caused is fair. I say that because I consider the issues Mr Gs 
experienced to have caused him considerable and significant distress and so this award is 
fair in the circumstances. Ill explain why. 
The spinal claim 
On 20 September 2022 CIGNA agreed it would reassess Mr Gs claim for spinal surgery. But 
it wasnt until 7 November 2022 that it agreed to pay the claim. And so, Ive considered what 
happened in those seven weeks and whether the time taken to reach that decision was 
reasonable. I should also highlight that the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) says CIGNA must consider claims promptly and fairly and not reject a claim 
unreasonably.
There was a considerable amount of correspondence between Mr G and CIGNA during that 
time. Our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for CIGNA to ask for the information it 
did because of the complexities involved with this case. I must say I agree with that 
statement. I say that because Im aware of the long-standing history between both parties 
and theres been a wealth of information exchanged between the parties over the past two 
years. 
I note our investigator initially thought the recent submissions included information that 
hadnt previously been shared with CIGNA, but I disagree. I didnt see any new information 
in those submissions. But that still doesnt mean the delays were unreasonable, or 
unnecessary. I say that because I think given the length of time this issue was outstanding, 
its fair that CIGNA review the medical evidence and the history of events so it could fairly 
determine whether to accept the claim. 
Mr G provided all the information requested on 4 November and a claims decision was given 
three days later. I dont consider that timeframe to be excessive. 
There were more serious delays with settling this claim. It wasnt paid until 13 January 2023 
which was a long time for Mr G to be without his money. CIGNA explained the reason for the 
delay was because itd made errors instructing the funds to be paid. Having carefully 
considered this, Im satisfied that was the case because itd failed to correctly carry out the 
SWIFT instruction mandate on six occasions. Mr Gs suggested a more sinister explanation 
that CIGNA made the mistake deliberately to cause him further upset, but Ive not seen any 
evidence that would support that argument and Im not persuaded CIGNA would intentionally 
make that error. 
Mr G made many attempts to try and resolve this issue and I note hed repeatedly requested 
call backs from managers that went unfulfilled. I thought that was a particularly poor way to 
treat Mr G given the duration of the issue. I also noted that of 11 emails requesting this, it 
took four emails before a manager acknowledged his concerns. The manager then 
continued to ignore Mr Gs subsequent emails asking for help. I thought that was unfair and I 
can see how that would have caused Mr G considerable and significant distress and worry. 
The shoulder claimOn 20 September, CIGNA agreed to reassess Mr Gs shoulder claim. He wanted to arrange 
surgery for when he was back in the UK and he requested CIGNA provide a guarantee of 
payment to his chosen hospital in November 2022. CIGNA was unable to do that because 
the treating hospital couldnt agree to a fixed price. So, instead, CIGNA sent a letter saying 
itd cover all reasonable treatment costs associated with the claim  which I thought was fair 
in the circumstances. 
The day before the treatment was due to take place, the hospital decided to verify that letter 
with CIGNA, however, it was unsuccessful. The advisers at CIGNA didnt have prior 
knowledge of Mr Gs case and I think this caused some confusion. The hospital discussed 
this with Mr G and said itd need to cancel the planned treatment as it couldnt verify the 
document. I agree this must have been significantly worrying for Mr G, given hed waited 
such a long time for the surgery, only to find the possibility of it being cancelled because 
CIGNA couldnt verify its letter of authorisation. 
I must stress that I dont think this was in anyway a deliberate attempt to cause additional 
stress, or to try and effectively get out of its commitment to pay for the surgery. Theres no 
evidence to support that argument. Im satisfied this was simply poor service, perhaps 
exacerbated by the lack of a case ownership structure, which undoubtedly caused the 
confusion over the letter authorising CIGNAs liability over reasonable treatment costs. Mr G 
paid the hospital and I note those costs were quickly returned to him. But I still acknowledge 
the significant distress and inconvenience this caused.          
Putting things right
Overall, things didnt go well for Mr G for the reasons Ive explained. I note Mr G didnt renew 
his policy with CIGNA citing the continued issues as the main reason for that. I agree the 
service Mr G received was poor since September 2022 for all the reasons Ive explained. I 
consider the inconvenience to be significant and at times, considerable, which is why I agree 
with our investigator that £500 compensation in these circumstances is fair. 
I note Mr Gs made arguments that compare CIGNAs net worth and the compensation 
awarded. I understand the connection hes making here, but Im not persuaded it means I 
should increase the award. I say that because its not for the ombudsman service to make 
punitive awards, rather, its to assess the impact CIGNAs errors had on Mr G and make an 
award. I consider the impact to be considerable and £500 is a fair award in these 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV must pay £500 
compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman