DRN-2596064
The complaint
Ms L complains about the service she received after she asked Landmark Mortgages 
Limited (Landmark) about taking a mortgage payment deferral due to the coronavirus 
pandemic. 
What happened
Miss L has an interest only mortgage with Landmark. In March 2020, Miss L called 
Landmark to ask about a payment deferral on her mortgage, should she need one. She was 
told shed receive a call back but was sent a letter instead that said a payment deferral was 
approved and so no payments would be taken from her account for April, May and June 
2020.
She was able to make her April 2020 payment, but was given conflicting information about 
how much was due, so would like the difference quoted (around £30) refunded to her. Miss L 
raised a complaint about this and the overall service she received from Landmark in calls. 
Landmark responded in a letter in April 2020 to apologise for the confusion around the April 
payment and offered £50 compensation. Miss L accepted this in full and final settlement of 
the matter.
Later, Miss L raised a further complaint. She said payments were applied incorrectly to the 
account and a payment was taken in June when it shouldnt have been. She also said when 
she asked what her payments would be due to a fall in interest rates, Landmark didnt tell 
her and that she spent time and effort  including several hours on the phone  ensuring that 
her mortgage account was rectified. 
Landmark replied in July 2020 to say that it had cancelled the payment deferral at Miss Ls 
request and put the account back in the position it would have been in had the payment 
deferral not happened. And it apologised for not sending Miss L a letter confirming this. 
Miss L remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the matter. She concluded that Landmark did make errors which 
caused trouble and upset to Miss L. She said that Miss L has already accepted £50 in full 
and final settlement to part of the complaint and recommended a payment of £100 
compensation for the other issues shed experienced. 
Miss L didnt think this went far enough. She confirmed that any issues with payments have 
now been resolved but said that due to the time, stress and effort involved in resolving the 
issues and mistakes caused by Landmark, she is due more compensation. She asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss L has raised a number of concerns about how Landmark has dealt with her. I want to 
reassure her that Ive read everything shes sent. I may not address every point made or 
respond in the detail shes made her complaint to us. I mean no disrespect by this, it simply 
reflects the informal nature of this service. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in late March 2020 for 
borrowers who were unable to meet their mortgage payments due to the impact of the 
coronavirus pandemic. This guidance allowed for borrowers to defer mortgage payments for 
initially three months (later extended to six months). 
Miss L called Landmark to ask about a payment deferral should she need one and was told 
shed receive a call back, but instead was sent a letter saying that a payment deferral had 
been approved and would be applied to the account for three months. Miss L says she didnt 
actually ask for the deferral and Landmark has acknowledged its mistake here and offered 
her £50 compensation. Having considered the circumstances, I think that offer is fair. 
Ive thought carefully about whether I require Landmark to do anything further to put things 
right given the additional points Miss L raised about the service she received. 
As Miss L was able to make her mortgage payments, she asked Landmark for the sum owed 
for her April 2020 payment. She was given conflicting figures and there was clearly 
confusion here, but as the change in interest rate was not effective until May 2020 and 
Miss L paid the higher figure quoted - she paid the correct sum. And so as an overpayment 
wasnt made, it follows that no refund is due. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Miss L suffered a financial loss here and she told our 
investigator that the issues with payments to the account have now been resolved. 
But its clear that it took Miss L time and effort to resolve this situation and I dont doubt that 
this caused her stress and anxiety. I can see she made several calls over this time period 
and its not in dispute that Landmark made errors. Ive listened to one call in particular where 
Miss L is clearly very frustrated as she could not get through to the complaints team and was 
told she couldnt receive a call back because they were not currently phone based. 
I can understand Miss Ls frustration, but as an impartial service, its only fair that I take 
account of the exceptional nature of this time period and the impact on Landmarks ability to 
provide its customers a certain level of service. Businesses such as Landmark were 
adapting to working from home at short notice due to the lockdown. This, combined with the 
pressure of higher call volumes from borrowers following the payment deferral guidance, had 
an impact on call waiting times and overall service levels. Thats not to say that Miss L 
should accept less compensation because of this  but that Ive considered all the 
circumstances when Ive thought about what a fair way would be to put things right. 
Landmark has already paid Miss L £50 which shes accepted and so I dont think it would be 
fair for me to award additional compensation for those errors.  
For the further issues shes raised  including time spend making calls - I consider £100 to 
be a reasonable and fair amount of compensation in all the circumstances. This takes her 
overall payment to £150 which I consider to be fair in recognition of the trouble and upset 
this matter caused. 
Miss L has also asked if there has been any impact to her credit file. Im not making a finding 
on this as any complaint about this would first need to be made to Landmark for it to respond, but the guidance introduced around payment deferrals made it very clear that a 
consumer should not be negatively impacted in taking a deferral  which includes any impact 
on a credit file. Landmark has also said that its reworked the account as if a payment 
deferral was never applied and so I think its unlikely that there would have been an impact. 
But Miss L can check this and raise the matter directly with Landmark if she does find that 
her credit file has been impacted by this matter. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think £100 compensation is fair in recognition of the 
trouble and upset this matter caused Miss L. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and direct Landmark Mortgages Limited to 
pay Miss L £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman