DRN-4218985
The complaint
Miss C complains about esure Insurance Limiteds (esure) handling of her motor insurance 
policy, including the cost of a third-partys claim and cancellation of her cover in error.
What happened
Miss C was involved in a minor collision when driving. She was at fault but doesnt think the 
amount esure paid to settle the third-partys claim is justified. Miss C says the damage to the 
third-partys vehicle was only slight. 
Miss C was also concerned about the increase in her renewal premium, and that esure 
collected this three days early. She says esure decided to cancel her policy when she hadnt 
instructed it to. This meant she had to find alternative cover at very short notice. Miss C says 
the new policy cost more than her policy with esure. 
In its final complaint response esure says Miss Cs renewal documentation advised her that 
payment would be requested three days in advance. It says this is to allow the bank time to 
process it in time for the due date. It says it cancelled Miss Cs policy and returned her 
premium in full, based on her email about refunding the premium. 
esure says Miss Cs no claims bonus wasnt impacted by the claim as it was protected. It 
arranged for her cover to be extended to allow her more time to arrange alternative 
insurance. It also offered £25 compensation for the time she spent waiting on the phone. 
esure told Miss C its engineers had assessed the third-partys claim. It says the costs were 
thought to be reasonable based on the evidence. However, esure offered a further £50 
compensation for the below standard service Miss C had received.  
Miss C didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. She didnt think esure had acted unfairly when settling the third-party 
claim or when increasing Miss Cs premium at her renewal. However, she didnt think it had 
treated her fairly when cancelling her policy, as Miss C had made clear she wanted to 
discuss the matter. 
Our investigator says to put this right esure should pay £150 for the inconvenience it caused. 
It should also refund the difference in cost between the new policy and Miss Cs cancelled 
policy. 
esure didnt think this was a fair outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
matter. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Miss Cs complaint in part. Let me explain. 
Claim costs
Ive read the information provided by esures engineers relating to the third-partys repair 
costs. I can see that this information was emailed to Miss C. It says:
After reviewing the file and attached PHV image, PH video footage taken at the scene and 
TPR images/estimate/engineers report & comparing against the claim circ's, Although I 
consider the TPV damage is consistent with the circumstances under notice and PHV 
damage to the LH front bumper, wing and headlamp the costs cannot be approved in full.
The TPR have generated and approved duplicated costs for the pre-repair diagnostics check 
as the Audatex estimating system automatically generates a labour time allowance for this 
and the TPR have approved duplicated specialists costs for the same. On this basis I would 
recommend the TPV Repair Account is approved at £2647.74 (invoice cost of £2701.74 less 
£54.00 for the duplicated specialist cost claimed) in this claim. Based on the TP labour hours 
to complete the repairs, I would estimate the repair duration to be 3-4 days.
I acknowledge Miss Cs view that there was very little damage caused to the third-partys 
car. But the engineers notes show a detailed assessment of damage and associated repair 
costs was carried out. The full extent of the damage caused by an accident may not be 
immediately obvious at the scene. Im satisfied esures engineers took reasonable steps to 
validate the costs claimed. So, I dont think esure treated Miss C unfairly in how it settled the 
third-partys claim. 
Renewal premium
Miss C doesnt think it was justified that esure increased her premium from around £160 up 
to £297.88 at renewal. 
esure told Miss C that as her no-claims bonus was protected she hadnt lost any of the years 
shed had in place prior to the claim. However, in its submission to our service it explains 
that a fault claim will still have an impact when calculating risk and the level at which a 
premium is set. 
esure has provided underwriting information relevant to its calculations for Miss Cs renewal 
premium. This information is considered commercially sensitive so I cant share it. But it 
does explain the risk factors esures underwriters considered. Having considered this 
evidence I dont think its been shown that Miss C was treated differently than any other 
customer would be, in the same circumstances.    
Cancellation and premium collection
Miss C emailed esure on 26 December 2022. This was the evening after it had taken 
£297.88 to pay for her annual premium. She queried why it had taken the money three days 
early and why the premium had increased to nearly £300. Miss C said she had no intention 
of paying this amount and asks for the money to be refunded. She refers to this having been 
stolen without her permission. 
esure points to the renewal letter Miss C was sent dated 28 November 2022. I can see that 
under the heading, What you need to do now the letter says:
Happy with your quote?  Well collect your payment 3 days before your renewal date. 
 The letter says the policy is due to renew on 28 December 2022. The premium was collected 
on 26 December. Based on this evidence, esure didnt behave unfairly in collecting the 
premium when it did. 
Ive thought about whether esure behaved fairly when cancelling Miss Cs policy. I dont think 
it did. I say this because esure responded to Miss Cs email on 28 December 2022 to say 
the matter had been referred to a manager. The next day a further email was sent to Miss C 
saying esure had tried to ring her. Miss C responded later that day to say she was free to 
discuss the matter on either 1 or 2 January 2023. 
Less than an hour later esure emailed Miss C to say that in order to minimise any delays it 
had acted to cancel her policy and refund her premium. Miss C responded around an hour 
later to say she didnt want to cancel the policy. esure sent her an email the next day 
apologising and offering £25 compensation. 
Having read the emails, I cant see that Miss C asked for her policy to be cancelled. esures 
agent assumed this is what she wanted. But Miss C had said she wanted to discuss the 
matter. She had said that she was fee for a call on 1 or 2 January 2023 in order to do so. 
She also explains that she was working late shifts, so this was the first convenient time she 
had available to discuss the matter. I dont think it was reasonable for esure to cancel Miss 
Cs policy based on this email exchange.  
Miss C explains that she had to search for a replacement insurance policy after her work 
shift ended. This was necessary as she couldnt legally drive home without it. I can 
understand that this must have been frustrating for her. This also came at an increased cost. 
In these circumstances I agree with our investigator that esure should pay Miss C £150 
compensation for the frustration and inconvenience it caused. This is separate to the £75 
payment it offered for the time she had spent waiting on the phone. esure should pay this 
amount if it hasnt yet done so. It should also pay the difference in cost between Miss Cs 
renewal premium and the cost of the replacement policy she obtained. As our investigator 
explained, its fair that this is subject to proof that the policies provide similar cover and 
benefits. 
In summary I dont think esure treated Miss C unfairly in its handling of the third-partys 
claim, her renewal premium or when it collected the payment. But I dont think it treated her 
fairly when cancelling her policy. To put this right it should pay her £150 compensation and 
pay the difference in cost between the renewal premium and the cost of the new policy.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. esure Insurance Limited should now:
pay Miss C £150 compensation for the frustration and inconvenience it caused; and
pay the difference between the renewal quote and the replacement insurance policy, 
on receipt of proof that the policies provide similar cover and benefits.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman