DRN-3427133
The complaint
Mr M complains that Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd (BBI) declined his pet insurance 
claim. My references to BBI include its agents. 
What happened
Mr M had pet insurance for his dog, insured by BBI. He claimed for vet fees relating to his 
dogs diabetes. 
BBI reviewed Mr Ms dogs vet records and declined the claim. It said the policy didnt cover 
claims for treatment as a result of Mr Ms dog being overweight and the vet records showed 
that the dog was classed as being obese. 
Mr M complained to us. He said his vet had told BBI that the diabetes wasnt caused by his 
dogs weight and BBI should pay the claim.
BBI acknowledged Mr Ms vets comments that there are numerous factors relating to 
diabetes. But it said as obesity contributed to insulin resistance an overweight dog may be at 
higher risk of developing the condition. 
Our investigator said on the evidence she had BBI had unfairly declined the diabetes claim. 
She recommended BBI settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
BBI disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. It didnt provide any further evidence. 
Mr M also complained to us about BBI not covering a claim for emergency treatment for his 
dogs abscess. Our investigator correctly explained that Mr M first needed to complain to  
BBI about that matter and if the parties couldnt agree then Mr M could make a separate 
complaint to us on that matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is only about Mr Ms claim for vet fees relating to his dogs diabetes. I need to 
decide whether BBI fairly and reasonably declined that claim, and I dont think it did. Ill 
explain why.
The policy says under the heading Veterinary Fees:
What is not insured:
Claims as a result of Your pet being overweight or underweight and this results in 
Your pet needing Treatment.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which summarises the main points of 
cover says:
What is not insured
If in the opinion of a vet your pet is overweight, and this results in your pet needing 
treatment.
So I think the policy documents are clear that claims as the result of Mr Ms dog being 
overweight arent covered by the policy.
Ive looked at Mr Ms dogs vet records, there is evidence that he had been overweight and 
Mr M hasnt disputed that his dog was overweight.
The issue is whether BBI has provided sufficient evidence that Mr Ms dogs diabetes was 
caused by him being overweight. 
Mr Ms vet told BBI:
Diabetes mellitus in dogs is generally considered a type 1 disease (like the types 
seen in humans) and occurs due to loss of cells that produce insulin in the pancreas. 
There are numerous predisposing factors for diabetes in dogs and many potential 
aetiologies including infection, autoimmune, pancreatitis, etc. Obesity can be a 
predisposing factor, but in no way is this a direct causative factor. From what I can 
understand in your exclusion, it appears that you have deemed (dogs name) 
diabetes a direct cause of him being overweight. In my professional opinion, this is 
incorrect and extremely inappropriate and therefore, would strongly advise you revise 
this exclusion.
So the treating vets opinion is that, while a dog being overweight can increase the potential 
for diabetes, Mr Ms dogs diabetes wasnt caused by him being overweight. I think the 
opinion of the treating vet, who saw and assessed the dog, is persuasive.
BBI hasnt provided any vet evidence to dispute Mr Ms vets evidence. I accept that a dog 
being overweight can increase the potential for diabetes. But for BBI to be able to fairly rely 
on the exclusion it needs to provide evidence that Mr Ms dogs weight caused his diabetes.
As I dont think BBIs provided that evidence I dont think it fairly relied on the exclusion to 
decline the diabetes claim. It must put things right as Ive detailed below.
Putting things right
BBI must settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. If Mr M has already paid the 
vet then BBI should add interest to the settlement as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd must settle the diabetes claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms. If Mr M has already paid the vet then interest* should be added at 8% simple a 
year from the date Mr M made the payment to the date of settlement.
*If Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman