DRN-2442678
The complaint
Ms P complains that a credit card provider reduced her credit limit after searches were
added to her credit file by Experian Limited trading HD Decisions. Ms P also complains that
Experian failed to correctly respond to a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) she raised.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 23 November 2020. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to 
uphold Ms Ps complaint. I said: 
What happened
Ms P had a credit card with a third party business (A). Between January and March 2017 Ms
P used a price comparison website and searches were recorded on her credit file.
In March 2017 A wrote to Ms P to say it had taken the decision to reduce her credit limit after
reviewing information on her credit file. Ms P has explained that this led to her having to take
out credit on more expensive terms and complained to A.
A responded on 15 March 2017 but didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint. A said the decision had
been taken after completing a review of Ms Ps credit file. Ms Ps credit card with A entered
into arrears and was closed. The account defaulted in December 2017.
In June 2018 Ms P contacted Experian about the searches she found on her credit file from
January to March 2017 that included references to HD Decisions and A. Ms P asked
Experian to confirm who had accessed her credit file and whether it was A or the comparison
website.
Experian responded and gave Ms P some general information about how comparison
services work but didnt explain the entries she had raised.
Ms P later complained to the comparison website that the searches it had completed
between January and March 2017 had caused A to reduce the credit limit on her credit card.
Ms P said she wasnt made aware of the adverse implications before completing quotation
searches.  
Ms P went on to begin legal action against the comparison website and has told us she
arranged a court date. Ms P asked Experian to provide information that she hoped to use in
the legal action as part of a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR).
Experian sent Ms P the DSAR documents on 23 September 2019, 7 November 2019 and
3 December 2019. Ms P has explained that she doesnt feel the DSAR requirements have
been met by Experian as the information she wants wasnt included. As a result, Ms P has
told us she had to cancel a planned court date at a cost.
Ms P has made several complaints to Experian about the handling of her DSAR and the
search information recorded on her credit file. Experian says it complied with the DSAR and
that the searches Ms P has pointed out were soft searches that cant be seen by lenders or
other businesses. Experian referred Ms P back to A for queries about whether it had
accessed her credit file.
Ms P went on to refer her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. She
asked Experian to explain the business names included on the search notations from
January to March 2017. Ultimately, Experian said it couldnt explain why the search
completed referred to HD Decisions and A and said they were actually completed by another
credit reference agency. Our investigator didnt ask Experian to take any action and Ms P
asked to appeal.
Ms P said the investigator had failed to explain the main focus of her complaint and that she
still didnt know why searches between January and March 2017 contained references to HD
Decisions and A. Ms P asked for confirmation of the relationship between HD Decisions and
A. Ms P also said that the DSAR was raised when Experian failed to answer her questions
but that she expected the response to come from HD Decisions. Ms P went on to say she
thought there was a clear link between the credit searches and As decision to reduce her
credit limit and subsequently default her account. Ms P asked to appeal, so her complaint
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reached a different decision to the investigator. I think Ms Ps complaint should be
upheld because Experian hasnt been able to answer reasonable questions raised about
information that appeared on her credit file. That being said, Im not persuaded that the
searches recorded on Ms Ps credit file between January and March 2017 were the reason A
reduced her credit limit. As Ms P has raised a number of concerns, Ill look at each in turn.
I agree that Ms P has asked a reasonable question about information she found on her
credit file. Ms P wanted to understand why, when using a comparison website, search
entries containing a reference to HD Decisions and A were added to her credit file. Both
Ms P and our investigator have asked Experian to explain the entries on several occasions
and I think it ought to have been able to explain them. I can see that Ms P has consistently
asked that question throughout the complaint process and I cant see that Experian ever
clearly explained to her why the searches in question carry the name of HD Decisions and A.
Experian has confirmed to our service that it cannot explain why the searches in question
referred to HD Decisions and A because they actually referred to soft searches completed
when Ms P used an online comparison service. It appears there has been a technical issue
that led to these entries carrying the wrong business names.
As Ive said, I think Experian should have been able to provide an explanation and I can see
that its failure to explain the entries has caused Ms P considerable trouble and upset. But I
cant force a business to provide an explanation when its told us the information required
simply cant be obtained. So, Ive considered how Experians inability to explain the entries in
question has impacted Ms P.
Ms P has told us she believes there is a direct link between the search entries added to her
credit file and As decision to reduce her credit limit. I agree that the timing of the entries is
broadly in line with As decision. But, as Experian has advised, the searches Ms P has
complained about recorded between January and March 2017 are soft searches. Whencomparison services access someones credit file they generally use a soft search that
doesnt leave a footprint for other businesses to see. Whilst the search information is
available for the consumer and Experian to see, its not publicly reported.
When Ms P complained to A, it responded in March 2017 to say the decision had been taken
following a review of her credit file. So I can understand why Ms P linked As decision to the
searches she later found. But, Ive looked at other entries on Ms Ps credit file to see if there
was any other information that may have been taken into account by A. Ms Ps credit file
shows that between November 2016 and March 2017 five new credit facilities were opened.
Existing lenders may look at an increase in available unsecured credit with other businesses
and decide to take action. In addition, Ms P appears to have had some low level arrears in
March 2017 as well.
I dont know why A took the decision to reduce Ms Ps credit file and this complaint only
relates to Experians actions. But, as Ive said above, the soft search entries applied
between January and March 2017 werent visible to A, or any other business. And there
does appear to be information on Ms Ps credit file that could have been taken into account
by A when the credit limit was reduced. Im sorry to disappoint Ms P as I can see how
strongly she feels in this matter. But Im satisfied that whilst Experian hasnt been able to
explain the names included on the search entries, they werent visible to other businesses
and didnt impact As decision to reduce her credit limit.
Ms P says she had to suspend a court hearing in relation to the online comparison service
after Experian failed to comply with a DSAR. Ms P has confirmed she received the
information Experian sent her but thinks the response ought to have come from HD
Decisions. But HD Decisions is a part of Experian. I dont agree that a response by Experian
was unreasonable. If Ms P feels the information included in the DSAR response or the entity
that responded to her is wrong, she has the option to refer her concerns to the Information
Commissioners Office. However, I havent been persuaded that there are grounds to tell
Experian to take any further action in relation to the responses it issued to Ms Ps DSAR.
I understand my decision may come as a disappointment to Ms P as I havent found that the
searches she has complained about were visible to A. As a result, I havent found that the
searches Ms P has complained about led to the credit limit reduction by A. But, I do think
Experian ought to be able to explain the details contained within the entries on Ms Ps credit
file and Im satisfied that failing to do so since Ms P first asked in June 2018 has caused her
a significant level of frustration and upset that persists. As a result, I provisionally intend to
uphold this complaint and direct Experian to compensate Ms P for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
Ive factored in the longstanding nature of Ms Ps questions and the fact that she was
referred back to A for answers despite the recent confirmation that it didnt carry out the
credit searches in question. Overall, Im satisfied that the absence of an explanation has
impacted Ms P and caused a significant level of trouble and upset.
As a result, I intend to provisionally uphold this complaint and direct Experian to pay Ms P
£300 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms P.
I invited Ms P and Experian to respond with any additional comments they wished to make. 
Ms P responded to say she accepted as did Experian. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the proposed settlement in my provisional decision, Im going 
to proceed to uphold Ms Ps complaint.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Experian Limited trading as HD 
Decisions to pay Ms P £300.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman