DRN-3467787
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Finch Commercial Insurance Brokers Limited (Finch) mis-sold 
their insurance policy in 2017.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are known to both parties with a number of other complaints also 
being linked. But in short summary, Mr and Mrs B have a portfolio of investment properties 
with Company A underwriting the insurance. The insurance was arranged and sold by Finch 
who have, for a number of years, arranged and advised on the sale of the policy to Mr and 
Mrs B.
A claim was made to Company A for damage in 2017. The outcome of this claim and 
subsequent information has led Mr and Mrs B to believe that their policy was mis-sold in 
2017. A number of things have given cause for concern, but the crux of the complaint is that 
the policy failed to provide accidental damage cover. Mr and Mrs B believed this was 
included and when a claim was needed, they feel theyve lost out as the cover they need is 
not in place.
Mr and Mrs B believe Finch has a fiduciary duty when providing advice on the insurance with 
specific detail to the level of cover being provided. And if accidental damage cover wasnt on 
the policy, Finch should have highlighted its absence and the importance of this cover.
Mr and Mrs B have also questioned whether the price they are paying and have been paying 
over the years for their insurance is fair. This is based on concerns over the make up of the 
policy including the impact of additional fees added as well as commission paid to Finch. 
Theyve explained why they think these costs are higher than the market average and this 
demonstrates that they are not being treated fairly.
Our investigator looked at their complaint and said that she didnt think Finch had done 
anything wrong. She could see that it provided a demand and needs statement each year 
and included within this was the policy documents for the insurance it was recommending. 
The documents set out the level of cover and although the advice was made based on 
information provided to Finch, Mr and Mrs B should have checked the level of cover within 
the policy too. She also said that even if she felt the policy had been mis-sold, she didnt 
think it had any negative impact on Mr and Mrs B. She explained she felt the claim with 
Company A would still have been declined even if accidental damage cover was included. 
So all though she didnt agree the policy was mis-sold, even it was, there would have been 
no loss as a result which meant she felt Finch didnt need to take any further action.
She also explained that the cost of the policy is set by Company A as it provides the 
insurance and covers the risks. Fees and commission, where applicable, had been made 
clear at renewal and with this, Mr and Mrs B were provided with information to allow them to 
make an informed choice about the price and the policy. Nothing was undisclosed or hidden 
and comparisons to other providers and price didnt mean Company A had done anything 
wrong, or that Finch as the broker for the policy needed to do anything else either. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. It felt there was a number of things overlooked by our investigator 
and that it wasnt simply the lack of accidental damage cover to their policy which meant it 
had been mis-sold. They didnt think it was fair our investigator focused on this.  They also 
questioned her answer on the price of the policy when she hadnt asked to see other quotes 
theyd received to insure their portfolio for less. They felt this supported their position that the 
policy had been overcharged. Nothing provided in response changed our investigators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs B, 
but Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B have provided a great deal of information to support their complaint and I 
thank them for this. But I must highlight that Ive not addressed all points individually, it is not 
my role as an ombudsman to do so. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be relevant 
to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome and what I believe to be the crux of the complaint. 
Did Finch mis-sell Mr and Mrs Bs policy?
 
Mr and Mrs Bs insurance each year has been sold with advice by Finch. This meant Finch 
needed to ask enough questions to be able to assess the needs of Mr and Mrs B. It needed 
to ask enough questions to be able to establish that the policy it was recommending was 
suitable.
Our investigator asked Finch to provide us with a copy of the demands and needs letter for 
the policy sale in 2017 together with the relevant fact find  which should set out the 
questions asked to identify what it was Mr and Mrs B needed, so a suitable recommendation 
could have been made.  Finch has provided the demands and needs statement but it hasnt 
been able to provide a fact find that sits behind it. This means the recommendation only can 
be reviewed.
The demands and needs letter sent on 30 March 2017 says the following:
I would recommend that you renew this policy as based on our understanding of your 
demands and needs the policy continues to meet your requirements at a competitive 
premium. Our decision is based on the information we hold on file for you. If there are any 
changes in the material facts previously advised to us, please notify us of these changes to 
the risk and/or your requirement, as this may invalidate the cover provided by the policy.
The renewal documentation is attached for your perusal.
The 2017 policy didnt provide accidental damage cover and the demands and needs letter 
was silent on the level of cover, although it included the policy documentation for Mr and 
Mrs B to review. But this wasnt a change in cover from the previous years cover. In fact the 
policy Mr and Mrs B had in place form 2011 onwards didnt include this level of cover. Mr 
and Mrs B have questioned why the decision was made to reduce their level of cover from 
2011 when highlighting their unhappiness about this not being in place in 2017. I understand 
their concerns about this but this complaint isnt about the removal in 2011 and whether 
Finch acted fairly here. As Ive said, Finch hasnt been able to provide the information to show what was asked of Mr 
and Mrs B, even with the retained information on file. And in the absence of this, I cant 
reasonably determine that it asked enough questions to be able to assess Mr and Mrs Bs 
needs. So I cannot say that it provided a suitable recommendation. 
Mr and Mrs B are commercial customers and although they employ Finch as a broker to 
provide a service and advice on their insurance, it is a fair expectation to expect that they 
should be aware of the level of cover they had in place. And with the policy documents being 
provided with the demands and needs letter, they should have been aware that the policy 
recommended by Finch didnt include this cover. If they felt this was needed, Id have 
expected them to flag this with Finch. It is evident from the communication between Finch 
and the insurer that this was requested from 2018 onwards, but there is no indication that it 
was requested sooner. 
As I cannot determine whether Finch did provide suitable advice on the policy as it has failed 
to provide the questions it relied on. Ive considered whether I think Mr and Mrs B have lost 
out as a result.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the mis-sale stems from a claim made on the policy not 
receiving the level of cover they expected. And they feel the insurer wouldnt have declined 
this had accidental damage cover been included. Our investigator explained that the loss 
adjusters report provided by the insurer showed the cause of damage, which resulted in the 
claim being made, as wear and tear. This is a common exclusion on all policies and it means 
that even if accidental damage had been in place, it is very unlikely that the claim would 
have succeeded. 
Overall, I cannot determine that Finch asked enough questions to provide a suitable 
recommendation. But even if the advice wasnt suitable, I dont think that Mr and Mrs B lost 
out as a result and so I dont think Finch need to take any further steps in relation to this and 
the claim.
Did Finch treat Mr and Mrs B fairly with the price of the policy.
Insurance pricing is a complex area and a number of things impact the price paid. Mr and 
Mrs B have said they feel the price they paid was unfair and have referenced averages for 
similar cover as well as quotes theyve been able to achieve to provide their cover for less. 
They have also questioned the administration charges applied by the insurer and the 
commission payments made to Finch. 
Our investigator explained that the price overall isnt set by Finch  it is instead the job of the 
insurer to determine the price. So any complaint about the overall cost of the policy would 
need to be directed to it.
Ive not seen that Finch has hidden any of the costs associated to it for the insurance 
including any administration fees or commission payments it might receive from the insurer 
for providing the service it does. So I think Mr and Mrs B would have been aware of these 
costs and had this knowledge when deciding whether to take the insurance recommended. 
So I dont think there is anything to show it has acted unfairly here or that it needs to take 
any further steps.
I understand why Mr and Mrs B might feel we should look at the cost of the insurance that 
others might be able to provide it for. But this doesnt have any bearing on this complaint. As 
I say, the insurer, company A is responsible for setting the price and not Finch.Overall, although I note and understand the concerns of Mr and Mrs B, I am not satisfied that 
the policy was mis-sold and even if it was, I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out as a 
result.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Finch Commercial Insurance Brokers 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman