DRN-3133609
The complaint
Mr K complains that the car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance wasnt as 
described. He wants compensation because of this.
What happened
Mr K acquired a car in February 2020 financed by a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer Finance. He says the car was advertised as being Ultra Low 
Emissions Zone (ULEZ) compliant. He says he also checked this with the dealer at the time 
of acquisition and this was confirmed to him. However, in January 2021 he discovered the 
car wasnt ULEZ compliant. He contacted the dealer and was told the car was compliant at 
the time of advertising but the rules had since changed. Mr K checked this but found that 
wasnt the case. After not getting a further response from the dealer Mr K raised his 
complaint with Santander.
Santander Consumer Finance issued a final response letter in February 2021. It said it had 
contacted the dealer which had offered to buy back the car with a deduction for fair usage. 
Santander Consumer Finance also noted in its response that the primary responsibility 
when buying a vehicle is on the customer to check it will meet any such restrictions, and this 
is not something a dealer should normally comment on it also said that having seen text of 
the advert, many original adverts may also feature a further disclaimer stating not all features 
may apply. 
Mr K didnt think the offer of buying back the car at a reduced price was fair and referred his 
complaint to this service. Mr K said the decision was based on incorrect statements as it was 
reasonable for him to rely on the advert (which he said didnt have a disclaimer in regard to 
the text containing the ULEZ compliant comment) and the information from the dealer about 
the vehicles compliance. He said his rights have been affected as the car he acquired 
wasnt as described and he says he wouldnt have acquired the car had he known it wasnt 
ULEZ compliant. Mr K says this issue has caused him distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr K had been treated fairly. He initially recommended that 
Mr K be allowed to return the car with nothing further owing and receive a refund of his 
deposit along with 8% simple interest from the date it was paid until the date of the 
settlement. He thought the payments Mr K had made under the agreement didnt need to be 
refunded due to the use he had of the car but said that Mr K should be paid £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset he had been caused.
Mr K responded to our investigators view and then confirmed that he had settled the 
agreement. Therefore, our investigators initial recommendations were no longer relevant. 
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint and recommended that Mr K be paid £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused by his car not being 
ULEZ compliant. 
Mr K didnt think our investigators view did enough to resolve his complaint. He said the car 
was mis-advertised and because it wasnt ULEZ compliant it was worth less and he wanted 
the price difference refunded. He also said that as he wouldnt have acquired the car through 
the agreement with Santander Consumer Finance had he known it wasnt ULEZ compliant 
he wanted the interest on his agreement refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr K was upset that the car he acquired wasnt as described. I note 
the comments made by Santander Consumer Finance about it being the consumers 
responsibility to check whether it meets certain restrictions and that the dealer wouldnt be 
expected to comment on this and that adverts often have disclaimers. However, in this case, 
the advert clearly stated the car was ULEZ compliant and I accept that Mr K then confirmed 
this with the dealer. I find it reasonable that Mr K relied on the information he received from 
the advert and the dealer at acquisition.
It has been accepted that the car was mis-sold as it was said to be ULEZ complaint which 
wasnt the case. Mr K has said he wouldnt have acquired the car had he known and so I 
agree that the car was misrepresented to Mr K. The usual remedy in such a situation would 
be to put the consumer back in the position they would have been had the misrepresentation 
not been made. In this case this could have involved the return of the car and refund of the 
deposit paid. However, Mr K chose to settle the agreement and is now the owner of the car. 
Therefore, I have considered what further actions are needed as a remedy to this situation.
Mr K has said that he should be refunded the difference in the purchase cost of the car and 
the interest he has paid on his agreement. I have considered the points he has made. 
However, in deciding a fair outcome to this complaint I have considered that Mr K decided to 
settle the agreement. This was his choice and doesnt support his concerns about the price 
of the car. I also do not have anything to suggest this issue meant the car was overpriced at 
acquisition and so without such evidence I do not find I can say further action is needed 
regarding this.  
Mr K has made payments through his agreement up to the time of settlement and while I 
note his comments about these, he did have reasonable use of the car. Aside from the issue 
of driving in the ULEZ I cannot see any evidence that his use has been impaired. Mr K has 
mentioned that he hasnt driven in the ULEZ in Birmingham since it was introduced. 
However, this has been his choice. Had he driven in the zone and provided the costs of this I 
could have considered these. However, without any further evidence I cannot say that this 
issue has caused him any costs.
I do however accept that the issue has caused Mr K distress and inconvenience. He may 
have changed his driving habits to avoid the costs of the ULEZ and now may decide he 
needs to change his vehicle. Therefore I think it reasonable he is paid compensation to 
reflect this. While I understand that Mr K feels a much higher amount of compensation is 
needed in this case, I think that the £200 recommended by our investigator is reasonable. I 
say this as I havent any evidence that Mr K has suffered any financial loss due to the issue 
and I note he did previously have the option to return the car but instead decided to settle 
the agreement. The issue didnt stop Mr K being able to drive in the ULEZ but instead would 
have resulted in a cost which he has chosen not to incur. So, while I understand that the 
issue has caused Mr K distress and inconvenience I find the £200 compensation 
reasonable. 
Putting things rightSantander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance should pay Mr K 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused by the car he 
acquired not being ULEZ compliant.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as 
Santander Consumer Finance should take the actions set out above in resolution of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman