DRN-2614564
The complaint
Mr M has complained that he was mis-sold an income protection insurance policy by Hive 
Insurance Services Limited.
What happened
In 2009, Mr M took out an income protection insurance policy through Hive. The policy, after 
a deferred period of 14 days, would pay Mr M a monthly benefit of £1,200 for a period of up 
to twelve months in the event that he was unable to work due to accident or sickness. It also 
had certain other benefits in the event that Mr M suffered serious injury following an 
accident. It furthermore had a cashback provision under which Mr M would be entitled to a 
return of premiums if he went twelve years without making a claim under the policy (though 
the proportion of premiums which would be returned is a matter of dispute between Mr M 
and Hive). The policy renewed on a rolling basis with the payment of each monthly premium. 
It was underwritten by a particular insurer, which Ill call L.
In December 2017, Hive wrote to Mr M to explain that from the end of January 2018, L would 
no longer provide underwriting for the policy. It said that Mr M would therefore receive a 
refund of 25% of the premiums he had so far paid for the policy, in line with the terms and 
conditions. It went on to explain that it had arranged for another insurer, which Ill call C, to 
provide continued cover from February 2018 on the same terms as L except that there would 
be no cashback provision and the premium would be slightly reduced. It said that it would 
automatically transfer Mr M to the new policy so that he enjoyed continuous cover but that if 
he didnt want this to happen he should let it know.
After receiving the letter, Mr M rang Hive to complain. He said that when he was sold the 
policy, he had been led to believe he would receive cashback of 100% of his premiums if he 
had made no claim.
Later in December 2017, Hive issued a final response letter to the complaint. It didnt uphold 
the complaint. It said it was satisfied that the information Mr M had been given at the time of 
sale confirmed that he would be entitled to a refund of only 25% of his premiums.
In June 2020, Mr M became aware that he was paying premiums for the new policy with C. 
He rang Hive to cancel the policy. He complained that he had not asked for, or wanted, this 
policy. He requested a refund of all his premiums since the policy began in February 2018. 
Hive didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it had provided him with full information in 
December 2017. He hadnt asked not to be transferred to the new policy so it had continued 
to provide him with cover.
Mr M was unhappy at Hives response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Hive had done nothing wrong.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that when he rang Hive to complain 
about the cashback issue in December 2017, he made it clear he didnt want or need the 
new policy. He considered that Hive should not have transferred him to the new policy 
without having first discussed it with him to ensure it was suitable. He disputed Hives claim  
that it had sent him annual review statements each year since the new policy started. He 
said there were opportunities for him to claim under the policy in 2018 and 2020 but he 
hadnt done so because he hadnt realised the policy existed.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M took out the policy underwritten by L in 2009 which offered cashback if he didnt make 
a claim. Mr M says that he was told this would be 100% of his premiums whereas Hive says 
he was entitled to only 25%.
Hive wrote to Mr M in December 2017 to explain that L would no longer underwrite the policy 
after the end of January 2018. The letter explained clearly that it would transfer Mr M to the 
new policy underwritten by C and offering similar cover to L (except for the cashback option) 
unless he told it otherwise.
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Hive to take this action. I consider it was reasonable for 
Hive to assume, since he hadnt informed it otherwise, that Mr Ms circumstances hadnt 
changed and that the new policy, which essentially offered the same cover as the old policy, 
was therefore likely to be suitable for him. The fact it didnt offer a cashback option didnt, in 
my opinion, mean that the policy was necessarily unsuitable because the old policys primary 
purpose was to provide income protection cover. In any case, an accompanying information 
leaflet made clear it was Mr Ms responsibility to ensure the new policy met his needs. By 
transferring Mr M to the new policy, Hive ensured he could enjoy continued cover rather than 
be left uninsured. Hive included a policy addendum which, in conjunction with the old policy, 
formed the new policy. It also included a new schedule which showed that the new policy 
was being treated as though it had started in 2009 so that Mr M would be covered for 
conditions which had developed since that time.  
Mr M rang Hive after receiving this letter to complain about the cashback issue. Ive listened 
to a recording of this call. The discussion is focused on the old policy rather than the new 
policy. There was mention, however, of what would happen now that the policy underwritten 
by L was being withdrawn. I consider the outcome of the conversation was unclear. Mr M 
said he had only wanted the old policy because he understood it offered 100% cashback but 
he didnt explicitly request not to be transferred to the new policy and Hives representative 
didnt seek to clarify the situation.
Later in December 2017, Hive issued its final response letter. This addressed the cashback 
issue on the old policy but was silent on the issue of cover going forward.
In February 2018, Hive wrote to Mr M to give details of his cashback payment. In this letter, it 
confirmed that Mr M had now been transferred to the new policy with C.
Hive has provided annual review letters which it says were sent to Mr M in November 2018 
and September 2019 and which give details of his new policy. Mr M says he didnt receive 
these letters but I consider it likely that they were sent to him and they are correctly 
addressed.After taking everything into account, I dont consider that Hive should have to refund Mr Ms 
premiums. I appreciate that it could perhaps have done more to confirm his wishes and 
clarify the situation about future cover after he made his complaint. But I dont consider that 
Mr M made it sufficiently clear that he didnt want to be transferred to the new policy. And 
even if he had mistakenly believed he had not been transferred, he should have realised his 
error on receiving the letter of February 2018.
It is unfortunate that Mr M continued to remain unaware of the policy for over two years 
despite premiums being taken from his bank account and the sending of two annual review 
letters. But Im satisfied he was provided with the cover for which he was paying during this 
period and that the policy would have responded in the event he had needed to claim. With 
this in mind, Mr M has mentioned that he had opportunities to claim in 2018 and 2020. 
I should point out that he can still claim under the policy for these absences, albeit it may be 
more difficult for him at this stage to prove the eligibility of the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman