DRN-3304412
The complaint
Mr S has complained that AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) wrongly settled a third-party claim
under his motor insurance policy which deprived him of his no claims discount (NCD) and
referred outstanding premiums to a debt collection agency.
What happened
Mr S took out an insurance policy with AXA in May 2019. Mr S said that he sold his car in
December 2019. Two days later, the car was involved in an accident and a third party made
a claim on Mr Ss policy. Mr S hadnt immediately cancelled his policy with AXA, however did
so within a month.
Mr S sent documents to AXA regarding the sale of his car. AXA didnt consider this
documentary evidence to be sufficient to prove the sale and accepted the claim against his
policy. This has affected Mr Ss NCD and he received correspondence from a debt collection
agency for non-payment of premiums for the remainder of the policy year of £446.17.
Mr S complained to AXA, however it didnt uphold his complaint, so Mr S complained to this
service. It was our investigators view that AXA hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in its
handling of Mr Ss complaint. He thought that AXA had the right to investigate the facts and
to decide whether to settle a claim. He said that AXAs responsibility was to cover the claim
given that Mr Ss insurance was still running. Finally, he said that when a claim has been
made and paid out, then the whole yearly premium was owed.
Mr S remained unhappy with this response to his complaint and the matter was referred to 
me to make a decision in my role as Ombudsman.
In January 2022, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I 
intended to uphold Mr Ss complaint as follows; -
Ive come to the provisional conclusion that AXA has not treated Mr S in a fair and 
reasonable way in all respects and Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions here are based on standard ones which usually allow the
insurer to decide how to settle a claim if a third-party makes a claim against the policy of one
of its policyholders. In this case, the relevant provision states; We will have the right to
take over and deal with the defence or settlement of any claim in the name of the person
making a claim under this policy. Here, the claim was made by a third party and not by Mr S
under the policy. I have however, for the purposes of this provisional decision, assumed that
the clause was intended to apply in the circumstances which have arisen.
AXA considered that it had insufficient evidence of the sale of Mr Ss vehicle in December
2019 as it was a cash sale, no bank statement evidence was available, the note of sale was
hand-written, as were the details of the new owner in the transfer of registered keeper form
(the V5). It had also requested, but not received, further information from the third-party
insurers, to include details of any witness, CCTV footage, dashcam evidence and the
relevant police report.
Mr S stated that he provided all the evidence he had, which included a DVLA
acknowledgment, printed by the DVLA in January 2020. This showed that he was no longer
the registered owner.
I have no reason to doubt that the hand-written note of sale and V5 form were completed on
the date of sale. The sale took place a week before Christmas and the DVLA
acknowledgement was printed just over a week after the New Year. I consider that these
timescales are reasonable, bearing in mind the time of year. In the circumstances, I consider
that its more likely than not that the sale took place when Mr S said that it happened.
AXA has referred to the fact that Mr S didnt cancel his insurance immediately following the
sale of his car. Mr S explained that this was because he was going to wait until he replaced
his vehicle to do so. It was Mr Ss duty to inform AXA as soon as reasonably possible of any
change of circumstances, such as sale of a car and its unfortunate that he didnt do so. I
note however that the accident took place very shortly after Mr S said hed sold the car. In
the circumstances, although Mr S didnt comply with his duty, its likely that reasonably
prompt compliance would not have changed the way in which AXA handled the matter.
Whilst I note that AXA considered it had insufficient evidence to challenge a claim by the
third-party insurers, I dont consider that it fully and properly explored the circumstances. It
hadnt received or chased the third-party insurers for full details of the incident before
accepting liability.
In all the circumstances, I conclude on a provisional basis that Mr S hasnt been treated fairly
and reasonably by AXA in recording an incident against his policy. This has resulted in his
NCD being affected by the incident (even though Mr Ss policy schedule shows that his 10
years NCD was protected). In addition, this resulted in premiums being levied for the period
following cancellation of the policy and referral to a debt collection agency.
Finally, Mr S states that AXAs handling of this matter has caused him stress and upset. I
note that AXA provided £50 in compensation for a delay in responding to his complaint. In
the light of my provisional findings however, Im minded to recommend that further modest
compensation is paid to Mr S by AXA, due to the stress and upset caused by the
consequences of AXAs actions for an extended period.
I said that I was minded to issue a final decision to require AXA to; -
- Record on its systems the fact that a claim was incorrectly recorded against Mr Ss
policy.
- Issue a letter to Mr S which he may share with any current or future insurers and any
debt recovery agents, to confirm that the incident was recorded against his policy in
error.
- refund any additional premiums Mr S has paid to his insurers as a result of this claim,
(within 28 days of Mr Ss providing proof of such additional payments), and
- Pay Mr S an additional sum of compensation in the sum of £100 for the distress and
upset caused by AXAs handling of this claim.
In my provisional decision, I also asked both AXA and Mr S if they had any further comments 
or evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr S nor AXA have any further information or evidence to add following receipt of 
the provisional decision, and both parties accept the recommendations. 
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint for the reasons given above and require AXA Insurance UK plc to:
- Record on its systems the fact that a claim was incorrectly recorded against Mr Ss
policy.
- Issue a letter to Mr S which he may share with any current or future insurers and any
debt recovery agents, to confirm that the incident was recorded against his policy in
error.
- refund any additional premiums Mr S has paid to his insurers as a result of this claim,
(within 28 days of Mr Ss providing proof of such additional payments), and
- Pay Mr S an additional sum of compensation in the sum of £100 for the distress and
upset caused by AXAs handling of this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman