DRN-2497927
The complaint
Mr D says MBNA Limited mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000. 
The policy was added to Mr Ds credit card account when he applied for the card by post. It 
protected his credit card monthly repayments in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment.   
After clarifying information about his financial situation at the time, our adjudicator didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr D disagrees, so the complaint has been referred to me. 
Mr D mainly complains that PPI wasnt properly explained  in particular, he told us that if 
hed known he was taking out insurance he wouldnt have done that as he didnt need it and 
he didnt know he was taking it out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Its completely understandable that Mr D has found it hard to recall exactly what his 
circumstances were and what happened when he took out the policy as this was so long 
ago. I've taken into account everything hes now told us he can remember. 
But what Mr D says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. I have 
to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint because:
the application Mr D filled in gave a brief overall description indicating what the 
insurance was for. And it mentioned the cost  next to where Mr D ticked a box 
saying Yes to the policy. There was a No option he couldve ticked instead if he 
hadnt wanted PPI. So I think that MBNA made Mr D aware that the PPI was optional 
and he chose to take it.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for him. But it did still have to give Mr D enough information to be able to make a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for him  and if it didn't do this, Ive 
thought about whether that makes any overall difference to what happened.
Its possible some of the information MBNA gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Mr D doesnt appear to have had any reliable other ways he 
couldve paid his credit card repayments if he couldnt work. He thinks he probably 
wouldnt have got anything more than statutory sick pay. Relying on other people to 
help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mr D lost his job unexpectedly 
and he was out of work. And in the event of accident or sickness the minimum 
monthly repayments on his credit card wouldve been covered for as long as Mr D 
was off work. So I think that Mr D couldve have benefitted from the PPI. 
Mr D wasnt affected by any of the main conditions that mightve limited the policys 
benefit to him. So, even if these werent mentioned, I dont think that knowing more 
about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Mr Ds decision 
to take out the cover. 
I dont think MBNA properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might 
pay out if Mr D made a claim. But MBNA made Mr D aware that hed be charged 68p 
per £100 of his statement balance. And, even if he hadnt fully appreciated how much 
this would actually be on a month to month basis, Mr D chose to take out the policy 
when he didnt have to  so he seems to have wanted it. And it appears the policy 
was affordable for him. He couldve cancelled it at any time if he decided he didnt 
want to pay for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr D wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think hed still have taken out the policy.
This means MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because MBNA didnt tell Mr D, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr D.
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman