DRN-4495895
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with how Skyfire Insurance Company Limited determined liability following a 
claim on his motor insurance policy. He also complains he didnt receive updates regarding 
his claim or a renewal letter because of an administrative error on the business part. He said 
this prevented him from being able to source alternative cover.
Any reference to Skyfire includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to the parties, so Ive summarised what 
happened. 
Mr E has a motor insurance policy which is underwritten by Skyfire. He made a claim 
on the policy in December 2022 when he was involved in a motor incident. Mr E says 
the third-party driver was responsible for the accident, and so, he considers Skyfires 
decision to record the claim as split liability to be unfair. 
Mr E says Skyfire didnt review CCTV footage from the time of the accident which he 
says would have supported his version of events that the third-party driver had been 
reckless. 
Mr E also complains Skyfire made an administrative error by recording an incorrect 
email address meaning he couldnt access his account online, he didnt receive his 
renewal notification, or updates about his claim. 
Mr E says Skyfires mistake also meant he missed out on the opportunity to shop 
around for a new policy at the time of renewal. And he says that when he complained 
about this, Skyfire said if he cancelled the policy  to move to another provider  hed 
be liable for the full amount of the premium  which he didnt consider to be fair. 
When reviewing Mr Es concerns, Skyfire accepted it was at fault for recording his 
email address incorrectly and him subsequently not receiving updates and renewal 
notifications. It said Mr E could cancel his policy at no cost to him if he wanted to 
change provider. 
With regards to the claim, it explained the third party was entitled to dispute liability, 
but it acknowledged Mr E had raised multiple complaints and spent a great deal of 
time trying to resolve things. It also acknowledged it had failed to return calls. To 
recognise its service had fallen short, Skyfire paid £150 compensation.
Mr E remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An investigator 
considered it and upheld it. Whilst she was satisfied Skyfire had acknowledged its 
administrative error, and she considered it offering to cancel the policy at no cost to 
Mr E to be a reasonable way of putting things right, she wasnt satisfied it had 
handled the claim fairly. 
She said Skyfire didnt obtain the CCTV when it knew it was available, and whilst its 
unclear whether doing so would have made a difference to the outcome of the claim, 
she thought Skyfire needed to recognise that the opportunity of doing so had been 
lost. And given Mr E had raised multiple concerns, she said it needed to pay an 
additional £250 compensation. 
Skyfire accepted the Investigators view, but Mr E disagreed. In summary he said: 
Skyfire hadnt complied with its legal data protection responsibilities; it repeatedly 
refused to acknowledge it had made the administrative error; he disagreed with the 
third-partys version of events; Skyfire had threatened to hold him liable for the full 
premium if he switched provider; his premium had unfairly increased; the 
compensation didnt reasonably reflect the difficulties hed experienced. And he 
considered compensation between £2,500 - £5,000 to be reasonable. 
The Investigator considered Mr Es points but maintained her position. Because Mr E 
disagreed the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached  and Ill explain why. Mr 
E has raised several complaint points. I want to assure Mr E I have read these, but I am only 
addressing those which I consider to be relevant to the complaint. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy but is to reflect the informal nature of this Service.
Administrative error
Its not in dispute that owing to a mistake on Skyfires part, Mr E wasnt able to access his 
online account, and importantly receive updates about his claim and renewal notices. It no 
doubt was frustrating for him having to spend time contacting Skyfire to get the matter 
sorted. And this was understandably compounded when Skyfire didnt call Mr E back when it 
said it would.  
Skyfire incorrectly updating Mr Es records meant he found out his policy had renewed after 
the event - meaning he lost out on the opportunity to look for alternative cover  which again 
caused him avoidable distress and inconvenience. 
I appreciate Skyfire has acknowledged its mistake and said itll provide feedback to the 
responsible staff member  and I consider this to be a reasonable course of action in the 
circumstances. But Ive kept in mind the difficulties Mr E encountered as a result of its error 
when determining how much compensation is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Renewing the policy 
Skyfire has said if Mr E wants to move to an alternative insurance provider it can cancel the 
policy and will ensure he doesnt incur any costs as a result. This is its position regardless of 
whether the premium was paid in full or on a monthly basis. Im satisfied this is fair as it 
means Mr E wont be financially disadvantaged by his decision to change provider  should 
he choose to. But Ill keep in mind the frustration hes felt about this issue when determining 
compensation. 
Claim liability The dispute here concerns Mr Es allegation that the third-party driver was at fault. And he 
says Skyfires failure to obtain CCTV footage means it has unfairly decided the claim as one 
of split liability. Ultimately, its for Skyfire as the insurer to decide how the claim should be 
settled and the terms of the policy allow it to do so. So, whilst its not my role to determine 
how liability should be decided, I have considered whether Skyfire acted fairly and 
reasonably when reaching its decision.
Mr Es main issue is that he said Skyfire determined liability without reviewing CCTV footage 
which he said would prove his version of events, and that the third-party had been driving 
recklessly. Neither party has had sight of the footage and so, it cant be said with certainty 
that the CCTV footage would support Mr Es position.
As our Investigator also highlighted, the position of the camera in relation to where the 
incident took place, means its possible it wouldnt have been captured  but I acknowledge 
Mr E disputes this. Furthermore, Mr E and the third-partys sketches of the event suggest the 
accident took place in different locations on the road in question  so, its not entirely clear 
which CCTV Mr E considers would have proven his version.
As both Mr E and the third-party driver dispute events, and Skyfire has said there isnt 
enough evidence to show Mr E safely pulled out on to the main road - saying he should have 
waited for the traffic to clear and not followed a third-partys signal before leaving the side 
road - Im not persuaded I can reasonably conclude the CCTV footage would have more 
than likely changed the outcome of the claim. But I agree that Skyfire had been made aware 
of it, and ought to have looked into this further. And because that opportunity has been lost, I 
consider it reasonable to direct it to pay compensation. 
When I consider the above, along with the fact there arent independent witness statements 
to corroborate Mr Es version of events, Im not persuaded the absence of the CCTV footage 
means Skyfire has unfairly determined that liability should be split between Mr E and the 
third party. 
Premiums 
I appreciate Mr E is unhappy his premiums have increased but it is normal for premium costs 
to rise following a claim being made. There are many factors which influence the cost of an 
insurance policy  with the claims history of the policy holder being one of them. So, on the 
face of it, Mr Es policy increasing after a claim had been made, isnt unreasonable. And 
because Im more persuaded Skyfires decision to record liability as split had been reached 
reasonably, I wont be asking it to amend Mr Es premium on this basis. But if Mr E has 
concerns about how the premium was specifically calculated, hed need to raise this as a 
separate complaint.  
Compensation
I understand Mr E doesnt consider compensation totalling £400 to reasonably reflect the 
difficulties hes experienced. He says the impact on him has been severe and so, he 
considers compensation much greater than £400 to be warranted. Whilst its not my intention 
to diminish Mr Es genuine concerns, quite simply, the compensation he considers to be fair 
isnt in line with awards this Service would make in circumstances such as this. 
I agree Mr E has been inconvenienced by Skyfires mistakes, and that its failure to obtain 
CCTV means an opportunity was missed, but, when I consider what Skyfire has done to put 
things right - namely, apologise and agree to cancel his policy at no extra cost to him  Im 
satisfied the additional compensation our Investigator awarded is fair in the circumstances. Skyfire has already paid £150 compensation, and so, it only needs to pay an additional £250 
to bring the total compensation to £400.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to 
pay Mr E an additional £250 compensation.
Skyfire must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr E 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman