DRN-4330931
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy.
Lloyds is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Lloyds has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Lloyds includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In October 2022, Mr and Mrs T made a claim under their home insurance policy with Lloyds 
after an escape of water caused damage to their kitchen.
Lloyds accepted the claim and arranged for strip out works and drying works to be 
completed before installing a replacement kitchen.
Mr and Mrs T raised a number of complaints about Lloyds handling of their claim. They were 
unhappy that Lloyds delayed ordering a replacement kitchen. They say they were coerced 
into having a kitchen of lower quality from a supplier they wouldnt have chosen. They also 
raised several concerns about Lloyds communication with them and the installation of the 
kitchen.
Lloyds didnt agree that Mr and Mrs T were pressured into accepting a kitchen they didnt 
want. It said it had tried to get a kitchen from Mr and Mrs Ts preferred supplier, but as Mr 
and Mrs T had specifically requested the kitchen be in before Christmas, it had very little 
option as to who it could use. 
Lloyds acknowledged there were some snagging issues with the kitchen and said it could 
arrange for recommended works to be done or offer Mr and Mrs T a cash settlement. It also 
agreed with some of the customer service issues Mr and Mrs T had raised. It paid Mr and 
Mrs T a total of £800 compensation in recognition of the poor service theyd received.
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy and asked for their concerns to be considered by our 
service. Our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to wait for the drying 
process to be completed, before ordering a replacement kitchen. He didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence to show that Mr and Mrs T had been forced into taking a kitchen from the 
supplier that had provided it. 
The investigator didnt think Lloyds had communicated with Mrs T as clearly as it should 
have done in November 2022. He also thought Mr and Mrs T had been caused distress and 
inconvenience because of poor workmanship on the kitchen. He recommended Lloyds pay 
Mr and Mrs T an additional £300 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with our investigators outcome. They said that although theyd 
accepted a kitchen from their preferred supplier wouldnt be delivered, Lloyds builder had 
told them there was only one option. Theyd clearly stated that they didnt want a kitchen in 
the colour they were given. They were only shown a picture of it online, not a sample. The 
supplier had acted on the builders instructions. They hadnt signed any paperwork to accept 
the kitchen.
Mr and Mrs T also commented that the units from their preferred suppliers could have been 
ordered and stored. The kitchen they were given was not like for like and there were other 
kitchen suppliers who could have provided items within a short timeframe. They said the 
kitchen range they were given is now discontinued. It was discontinued without their 
knowledge whilst being installed. They would never have installed a discontinued range 
knowing possible problems in obtaining replacement faulty goods.
As Mr and Mrs T disagree with our investigators outcome, their complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs T have told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings 
to what I believe to be the crux of their complaint. I wish to reassure Mr and Mrs T Ive read 
and considered everything they have sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or 
piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is 
a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Choice of kitchen
The policys terms and conditions say:
Well replace an item with a new item on a like for like basis. When we say like for like 
basis, we mean well try to replace it with an exact match. If we cant find an exact match, 
well replace it with the nearest equivalent.
By nearest equivalent we mean an item of the same quality and same specification.
Mr and Mrs Ts main concern is that the kitchen thats been installed is from a supplier (Ill 
refer to as H) rather than from their preferred supplier (A) who supplied their original 
kitchen. 
Mr and Mrs T believe they could have got their kitchen from A, and still had the work 
completed by Christmas if Lloyds had placed the order sooner. Lloyds says a replacement 
kitchen would not be ordered until a property is dry, as potentially it could be available before 
it could be fitted and would need to be stored on site. I dont think this was unreasonable. 
Mr and Mrs T have referred to a note by Lloyds which refers to a two to three week lead time 
for delivery of units from A and says the builder needed to make an urgent decision so they 
could be ordered. However, I cant tell who left the note or what their role might have been in 
deciding when the units needed to be ordered. So, this isnt enough to persuade me that 
Lloyds should have ordered replacement units sooner. 
Mr and Mrs T say they would never have sought a kitchen from H, which they believe has 
provided an inferior kitchen in both quality and design. They say the replacement kitchen wasnt like for like as the units from A were fully wrapped. They also say they made it clear 
to the kitchen installer that they did not want a kitchen in the colour that theyve been given.
Lloyds says Mr and Mrs T confirmed over the telephone that they didnt want to use A and 
would prefer to use H. It says they approved the kitchen before it was ordered. They had 
several opportunities to raise any concerns before it was fitted, but they didnt.
Lloyds says Mrs T requested that the kitchen was installed before Christmas. The lead time 
for a kitchen from A was three weeks from the date of order. It says the option to use H was 
put forward to Mr and Mrs T as they had a very short lead time and provided a design and 
sample service. Mrs T was under no obligation to accept a kitchen from H and could have 
explored the option to use A or any other supplier. Mrs T placed herself under a self-
imposed deadline to have a replacement kitchen fitted before Christmas.
Ive listened to a telephone conversation between Mrs T and Lloyds which took place a few 
days after a representative from H visited her property. Mrs T expressed her concerns that 
her claim was progressing too slowly, and her kitchen might not be ready for Christmas, with 
only four working weeks to go. She said she and her husband had no family members to go 
to and everywhere shed looked at was fully booked.
She confirmed that H had visited and said: I really dont want to go back to A, because one 
 A are going to make us wait three weeks before they even wrap the units, so Im definitely 
not going to have a kitchen for Christmas. And if theres only £1,000 or so difference, Id 
prefer to do that but only as a last resort. 
Mrs T said she was hoping the claims handler would call later with a price from H and 
whether were going with H or not, because I need to know.
Mr and Mrs T say they were coerced into accepting a kitchen from H and they believe this 
was because it was cheaper than a kitchen from A.  Theyve referred to a note made by 
Lloyds which says the claim handler was happy with H to be ordered as overall best option 
and A worked out too expensive. However, the telephone recording indicates that Mrs T 
chose to have a kitchen supplied by H, rather than by A. 
Mr and Mrs T might have felt pressured to make a quick decision about accepting a kitchen 
from H because of concerns about not having a functioning kitchen before Christmas. But I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that Lloyds (or its agents) coerced them 
into taking the kitchen from H.
Mr and Mrs T say they made it well known to all involved that they didnt want the kitchen 
they were given, it wasnt chosen by them, and they had never seen a unit sample in their 
home. They say they told the builder that they didnt want a kitchen in the colour they were 
given. 
However, Mrs T has told us these conversations were face to face, so I have nothing to 
show me exactly what might have been said. The first record of Mrs T telling Lloyds that she 
didnt like the replacement kitchen is from after it was installed. Theres nothing to show that 
Mr or Mrs T told Lloyds they were unhappy with the colour or quality of the units between 
them being delivered and fully installed. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to tell 
Lloyds to cover the cost of replacing them. 
Mr and Mrs T have also raised concerns about their replacement kitchen being discontinued. 
They say the builder made a passing remark about this, while it was being installed. Theyve 
recently told us that the range has been removed from Hs website.Lloyds says the kitchen hadnt been discontinued when it was installed. However, as with 
any kitchen the manufacturer can discontinue or make changes to the design at any time.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T have concerns that they might not be able to get hold of 
replacement parts in the future. However, I havent seen strong enough evidence to 
conclude that Lloyds knowingly installed a kitchen that was about to be discontinued. So, 
their comments about this havent made a difference to the conclusions Ive reached.
Snagging issues
Mr and Mrs T also raised several concerns about the fitting of their kitchen. I can see that 
Lloyds arranged for a contractor to visit their property in April 2023 to review the work that 
had been completed. 
The contractor identified several snagging issues which Lloyds agreed to rectify. It says 
electrical works were completed in May 2023. I understand other work is yet to be completed 
because Mr and Mrs T wanted to wait for the outcome to their complaint first. 
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs T experienced some unnecessary frustration and 
inconvenience as a result of poor workmanship. So, Ive considered this as part of the 
overall compensation I think they should receive to put things right.
Customer service
Mr and Mrs T have raised a number of other concerns about the service they received from 
Lloyds. And Lloyds has acknowledged customer service issues such as poor 
communication. So, Ive also considered the impact of these matters on Mr and Mrs T as 
part of the overall compensation I think is fair to put things right.
In conclusion
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T dont believe their replacement kitchen is equivalent to their old 
kitchen and they would have preferred a kitchen in a different colour and style. However, 
based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Lloyds pressured them into accepting a 
kitchen that they didnt want. 
I think its clear from Mrs Ts communication with Lloyds that she wanted the kitchen to be 
installed by Christmas and I can understand why this was important to her. Its unfortunate 
that there was only a small timeframe between drying being completed and Christmas. I 
think this was likely to have limited the available options and meant Mr and Mrs T had little 
time to make a decision about the choice of kitchen. However, Im satisfied that Mr and    
Mrs T were given a choice about the kitchen supplier and it was their decision to have it 
supplied by H. So, I dont think it would be fair to tell Lloyds to replace their kitchen or pay 
them compensation for this.
Lloyds has acknowledged some failings in the service they provided to Mr and Mrs T, 
including poor communication and poor workmanship. However, its offered to rectify the 
issues caused by the poor workmanship. Its also paid them £800 compensation and agreed 
to increase this by another £300. 
Having considered everything, I think a total of £1,100 fairly recognises the overall distress 
and inconvenience Mr and Mrs T have experienced as a result of poor service from Lloyds. 
So, whilst I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for them, Im not persuaded to award 
compensation above this.Putting things right
Lloyds should:
Pay Mr and Mrs T £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Rectify any outstanding snagging issues from the installation of the kitchen.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and direct Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman