DRN-3555229
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their complaint about two timeshares they bought using credit.
Since bringing their complaint, Mrs B sadly passed away. But as the complaint was brought 
by Mr and Mrs B, I will refer to them throughout this decision.
What happened
In April 2007 Mr and Mrs B entered into a timeshare agreement with a provider that I will call 
Business A. To pay for this agreement they took a loan from GE Money arranged by 
Business A.
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs B wrote to GE Money. They said that they were concerted that 
the loan was arranged without the necessary legal formalities set out in the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA 2000). In particular it was said Business A was not 
authorised to arrange the loan by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), meaning the loan 
was unlawful following the General Prohibition in s.19 FSMA 2000.
GE Money responded to say that Business A was authorised by the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT), which at the time regulated consumer credit businesses. So the loan was set up 
properly. GE Money treated Mr and Mrs Bs letter as a complaint and explained that they 
could refer their concerns to our service.
In response to what GE Money said, Mr and Mrs B brought a complaint to our service. At 
that stage they used a professional representative (PR) and the complaint was expanded. 
It was said (in summary):
Any authorisation that Business A had was breached by it selling a timeshare sold 
with exclusive rights at luxury resorts at any time of Mr and Mrs Bs choosing, which 
was untrue. So the misrepresentations made breached the General Prohibition in 
s.19 FSMA 2000.
GE Money did not undertake appropriate checks before granting the loan.
GE Money had a duty of care to Mr and Mrs B, which it breached by not paying 
regard to their interests and allowing (by Business A) a high pressured, coercive 
sale.
A number of breaches of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook were set out, 
including of the Principles and Business As duties as a broker as defined by CONC.
GE Money did not undertake the right checks to make sure the loan was affordable 
for Mr and Mrs B.
A Spanish Court ruled that the structure of Business As companies was akin to a 
fraud.
Our service told GE Money that we had been asked to consider a complaint about it and 
forwarded what PR had sent. GE Money said that it was treating this as a new claim under 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA 1974) as the matters of concern were different to 
what Mr and Mrs B had first complained about. So it responded to that claim.
GE Money treated some of the complaint as claim as being made under s.75 and s.140A 
CCA 1974, as those provisions most closely covered the issues being raised. It transpired 
that Mr and Mrs B had actually taken out two loans from GE Money to pay for Business A 
timeshares. GE Money said the first loan was drawn down on 8 May 2007 and ran to 8 
October 2007 (Loan 1). The second loan was drawn down on 14 September 2007 and ran 
until 28 March 2013 (Loan 2), at which point the relationship between Mr and Mrs B and 
GE Money came to an end. GE Money explained that some of the proceeds of Loan 2 were 
used to pay off what was left owing on Loan 1. Given the dates the loans were taken out and 
repaid, it said any claims for misrepresentation (s.75 CCA 1974) or arising out of an unfair 
relationship (s.140A CCA 1974) had been brought too late under the provisions set out in the 
Limitation Act 1980 (LA 1980).1
As for the other matters raised in the complaint, GE Money repeated its position that 
Business A held an OFT licence at the relevant times to broker loans, but if Mr and Mrs B 
had any concerns with the way the loan was brokered they could raise those directly with 
Business A. With regards to the other parts of the complaint, for example the allegation that 
GE Money did not undertake the right sort of affordability checks, it said the complaint had 
been brought too late under the FCA complaint handling rules (DISP).2
Following GE Moneys response, PR wrote to our service to clarify what issues it wished our 
service to consider. They explained that they wished to raise GE Moneys compliance with 
regulatory requirements, the loan intermediary and their authorisation, limitation and GE 
Moneys agents compliance with the Resort Development Organisation (RDO) Code of 
Conduct. In particular, it is said that the name of the loan intermediary changed as the 
business GE Money said brokered the loan was different to the name on the loan 
agreement. The fact that the name of the intermediary was unclear was alleged to be a 
breach of the RDO Code of Conduct as it failed to provide appropriate disclosure of all 
elements of the timeshare purchased. 
With regard to the LA 1980, PR argued that the limitation period for Mr and Mrs B to make a 
claim under s.140A CCA 1974 was twelve years under s.8 LA 1980 and not six as GE 
Money had said. Additionally, Mr and Mrs B complained as soon as they found out they 
could in 2020, so s.32 LA 1980 also applied to their claim.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, but thought GE Money did 
not need to do anything further. She said:
The claims for misrepresentation under s.75 CCA 1974 were brought too late under 
the LA 1980. She said any claim had to be made within six years of the date of the 
misrepresentation, which was at the point of sale.
The claims under s.140A CCA 1974 were also brought too late. Any claim had to be 
brought withing six years of the date of the loans ending, which did not happen.
She did not think s.32 LA 1980 applied to the claims being made.
There was no evidence that the lending granted to Mr and Mrs B was unaffordable, 
so even if the right checks had not been carried out, she did not think the complaint 
was likely to succeed.
PR responded to our investigators view. It said:
Business A lacked lawful authority to arrange the loan and GE Money has failed to 
1 Mr and Mrs B initially complained only about Loan 1 and when PR first referred a complaint to our 
service, it only mentioned a loan taken out in August 2007. PR has confirmed that the complaint 
issues related to both Loan 1 and Loan 2, so I will deal with issues relating to both in this decision.
2 GE Money are no longer raising this argument, so I will not consider it further.disclose the true identity of the intermediary. They said that our service should draw 
an adverse inference from that failure.
Mr and Mrs Bs claim under s.75 CCA 1974 lies in speciality and therefore s.8 LA 
1980 applies and they had twelve years to bring a claim.
Mr and Mrs B allege fraudulent misrepresentation and say the issues were concealed 
from them at the time of sale. That meant the limitation period was postponed under 
s.32 LA 1980. Our investigators views on the LA 1980 were not accepted.
Following s.56 CCA 1974, if the statutory agent is guilty of fraud, the principle is also 
liable for the actions of the agent.
In the absence of any evidence of proper credit checks, we must conclude no such 
checks were taken out in breach of CONC 5.2.4 of the FCA Handbook. Mr and Mrs B 
say the loan took up all of their disposable income to pay it and they struggled to 
repay the loan.
We should take into account another decision issued by our service (in fact by me) in 
which Business As marketing practices were examined.
As both parties did not agree with the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me 
for a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I decide complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Was Business A authorised to broker Loans 1 and 2?
PR alleges that Business A was not authorised to broker loans at the time Loans 1 and 2 
were set up. On both of the loan agreements, Business As trading name was given as the 
name of the intermediary  the same name was given on both. The actual proceeds of the 
loans were paid to a trustee that held the timeshare properties in trust for the benefit of 
Business A and the timeshare members. At the time the loans were granted, the FCA did not 
regulate this type of lending, rather it was done by the OFT. In 2007, Business A held OFT 
authorisation, so I do not think there was any breach of any of the rules in place at the time 
by brokering the loans.
Further, I cannot see that the name of the broker changed. It was the same name on both 
loan agreements, which was also Business As trading name. I think it was clear who the 
broker was. In responding to Mr and Mrs Bs claim, GE Money used another of Business As 
trading names, but I do not think this changed which business brokered the loan.
I have thought about PRs argument that there would be a breach of the s.19 FMSA 2000 if, 
whilst acting as broker, Business A misrepresented the nature and quality of the timeshare 
agreement. However, I do not think that argument is right. S.19 FSMA 2000 is simply a 
provision that states that a person must be authorised to undertake a regulated activity. The 
concerns that Business A misrepresented the product sold is dealt with in other provisions 
that Mr and Mrs B can rely on when making a claim for damages against Business A and/or GE Money.
Were the claims under s.75 CCA 1974 made too late?
Mr and Mrs B said that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership 
to them when they bought it and that they have a claim for misrepresentation against the 
supplier under the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (MA 1967). Under s.75 CCA 1974, GE 
Money could be jointly liable for the alleged misrepresentations made by the timeshare 
supplier. But GE Money argued that any claim brought by Mr and Mrs B for any alleged 
misrepresentations was made too late. I have considered that argument and, having done 
so, I agree with what GE Money has said. For the avoidance of doubt, I have not decided 
whether the limitation period has expired as that would be a matter for the courts should a 
legal claim be litigated. Rather, I have considered whether GE Money has acted fairly in 
turning down the claim. 
It was held in Green v Eadie & Ors [2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under 
s 2(1) of the MA 1967 is an action founded on tort for the purposes of the LA; therefore, the 
limitation period expires six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued (s 2 
LA 1980). 
Mr and Mrs B made a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA 1974. The limitation 
period for the corresponding like claim would be the same as the underlying 
misrepresentation claim.  As noted at para. 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and 
Practice (Issue 68 (April 2022)) the creditor may adopt any defence which would be open to 
the supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim 
against the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, 
to the extent that the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the 
creditor may shelter behind that exclusion or limitation. Conversely, the creditor's 
right to repayment is so closely connected with the supply contract, and the debtor's 
statutory rights under sub-s (1), that the debtor may assert a right of set-off in 
diminution or extinguishment of his liability to the creditor, and as a defence in 
proceedings brought by the creditor (with or without a counter-claim). Any attempt to 
exclude the right of set-off will fall foul of CCA 1974, s 173(1) (and would in any case 
fall within [section 13(1)(b) of the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977])
Therefore, the limitation period for the s.75 CCA 1974 claim expires six years from the date 
on which the cause of action accrued. So I disagree that the limitation period is twelve years, 
as PR argued, following s.8 LA 1980.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs B entered 
into the agreement to buy the timeshares. It was at that time that they entered into 
agreements based, they say, on the misrepresentations of the timeshare supplier and 
suffered a loss. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, they would not have 
bought the timeshares. And it was on those dates that they suffered a loss, as they took out 
the loan agreements with GE Money that they were bound to and would have never taken 
out but for the misrepresentations. It follows, therefore, that the causes of action accrued in 
May and September 2007. Mr and Mrs B had six years from then to make a claim. But they 
did not make a claim against GE Money until 2020, which was outside of the time limits set 
out in the LA 1980. So I think GE Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation 
claim.
Were the claims under s.140A CCA 1974 made too late?Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B CCA 1974 in connection 
with a credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a 
determination but this is relevant law and I have taken it into account. An assessment of 
whether Business A breached the RDO Code of Conduct could be relevant to this claim.
GE Money has provided evidence that Loan 1 ran to October 2007 and Loan 2 to March 
2013. PR first made reference to a s.140A CCA claim when it wrote to us in January 2021. 
The LA 1980 applies to a claim under s.140A CCA 1974 too. It was held in Patel v. Patel 
[2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA 1974, the time for limitation 
purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the 
time the claim was made. As with an action under s.75 CCA 1974, the limitation period is six 
years. That is because the claim Mr and Mrs M wish to make it for repayment of sums they 
have paid to the loan, which is an action for sums recoverable under statute to which s.9 LA 
1980 applies. That means Mr and Mrs M would have to bring an action within six years of 
March 2013 at the latest. As they did not do that, I think they brought their claim too late.
Is there any way to extend the limitation periods?
The LA 1980 provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have 
considered the facts of this complaint and I do not think the time limits I have set out above 
can be extended under any of the provisions of the LA 1980. I have considered several 
reasons specifically raised in more detail.
I have been asked to consider s.32 LA 1980, which states that in cases where an action is 
based on the fraud of the defendant or a fact relevant to the right of action has been 
deliberately concealed from the claimant by the defendant, the limitation period only starts to 
run from when a claimant discovers the fraud or concealment (or could have discovered it 
using reasonable diligence). 
It has been argued that the timeshare suppliers corporate structure amounts to a fraud 
following a Spanish judgment. However, I fail to see what the alleged fraud actually is that 
PR say means Mr and Mrs B lost out. So far as I can see, they took out timeshare 
agreements which worked in the way intended, i.e. they were able to use them to take 
holidays. I do not think that just because a Spanish judgment held that one part of the 
corporate structure was liable to pay damages awarded against another part means the 
timeshare agreement was a fraud.  So I cannot see how GE Money could be liable for 
anything arising out of this.
PR say that representations made to Mr and Mrs B (presumably the representations set out 
in the initial letter of claim) were fraudulent misrepresentations. For there to be a cause of 
action for a fraudulent misrepresentation, and therefore one which GE Money could be 
jointly liable for under s.75 CCA 1974, there would need to be a number of things needed to 
be found. There would need to be a false representation by the fraudster, that representation 
would need to have been made knowing it was false (or being reckless as whether it was 
false), the fraudster would need to intend the claimant acts in reliance of the representation 
and as a result of that, they suffered a loss. Here I cannot see any evidence that any of 
those four elements were satisfied. In particular, Mr and Mrs B have not set out in any level 
of detail what the representations made to them were that turned out to be untrue.
Finally, it is alleged that matters were concealed from Mr and Mrs B that related to their 
claims, and so s.32 LA 1980 extends the time to make a claim. If facts relevant to their 
causes of action under s.75 and s.140A CCA 1974 were deliberately concealed from them, 
the limitation period may be extended. However, I cannot see what facts PR allege were deliberately concealed from Mr and Mrs B or how any concealed facts could be viewed as 
essential elements of those rights of action advanced by them. In any event, I do not 
consider there is sufficient evidence to support the assertion that facts were indeed 
concealed; therefore, I believe that s.32 LA 1980 does not extend the limitation period
Did GE Money undertake the right affordability checks and was the loan unaffordable for Mr 
and Mrs B?
PR has said that GE Money did not undertake the right affordability checks when it decided 
to lend to Mr and Mrs B. I have been asked to consider CONC, which is a part of the FCA 
Handbook that deals with consumer credit. However, at the time of the loans being granted, 
the FCA did not regulate that type of lending, so the FCA Handbook is not relevant to 
determining this part of the complaint.
When Mr and Mrs B first made a complaint about the lending they said they did not think the 
right sorts of checks were done. Our investigator said that even if that was the case, there 
was no evidence the loans were actually unaffordable for them. Following that, PR explained 
that the loan repayments took up all of their disposable income and they struggled to repay 
the loan.
In any complaint about lending there are a number of matters to consider. At the time the 
loans were granted, good industry practice was such that a lender had to undertake a sound 
and proper credit assessment. So the first issue to determine is what that assessment 
looked like. Secondly, if such an assessment was not carried out (or carried out improperly), 
it is necessary to determine what the right sort of assessment would have shown. Finally, if 
the right sort of assessment would have shown that the borrowing was not affordable, it 
needs to be considered whether the borrower lost out as a result  this last element is 
necessary for any complaint about unaffordable lending to be successful.
I can see that for both loans GE Money had recorded Mr and Mrs Bs income and had some 
records of their outgoings, but I cannot see that any detailed income or expenditure was 
undertaken. It is possible that the checks undertaken were not sufficient, however I make no 
finding on that point. That is because, although PR has said that Mr and Mrs B found the 
loans difficult to repay, I have not been provided with any further information about this. Our 
investigator invited evidence to be provided to show why it is said the loan was not 
affordable, specifically information about Mr and Mrs Bs finances at the time the loans were 
taken, but beyond what PR has said, nothing has been provided. 
Instead, PR has said that the onus is on GE Money to ensure the loans were affordable for 
Mr and Mrs B and remained so during their duration. So PR argued that only asking for 
information about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time the loans were granted was too 
narrow as the loans became more unaffordable during the term of the loans. However, I 
disagree. I do not think there was any ongoing duty to GE Money to ensure loans were 
affordable for its customers once the loans had been granted. PR has not pointed to any 
regulatory duty in support of this proposition, explained how a lender is supposed to monitor 
borrowers continued ability to repay loans and, if a business finds a loan is no longer 
affordable when it had been in the past, what a lender is duty bound to do in that situation. 
There are duties on lenders to undertake credit assessments before agreeing to lend, 
however I have not seen anything in this case to show that a sound and proper credit 
assessment would have shown Mr and Mrs B could not have afforded the loan, nor that they 
lost out as a result. There are also duties on lenders to treat borrowers fairly and 
sympathetically if the fall into financial difficulties after they take out a loan, but Mr and Mrs B 
have not made any complaint about that. Finally, I have been asked to consider another decision that I have issued that concerns a 
complaint about lending granted for the purchase of a different Company A timeshare. Each 
complaint is individual and turns on its own set of facts. So although I am aware of the 
outcome of that complaint, it does not mean that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr B and the late Mrs Bs complaint against GE Money Consumer Lending 
Limited..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and the 
estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman