DRN-2935096
The complaint
Ms C complains about the quality of a van she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms C acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Ms C. The car here was already 
about seven years old and had completed about 108,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to have quite a bit of wear and tear.
Ms C has explained that gearboxes of this type will usually last for 80-90,000 miles and I 
dont dispute that. I think that would be a reasonable expectation for the life of a gearbox. 
The repairing garage have suggested the gearbox was worn when the van was supplied to 
Ms C. That may well have been the case but as the van had already completed more than 
100,000 miles I think a consumer would expect quite a bit of wear and I think that would 
include an expectation that components subject to wear, such as the gearbox and the clutch 
would be nearing the end of their operational life. 
Ms C was able to drive about 15,000 miles before the van needed a new gear linkage in 
March 2020. I think that suggests that any wear that may have been present was not 
causing problems with the van as, if it was, I think Ms C would have reported that earlier. 
The fact that Ms C was able to drive a further 21,000 miles before the clutch and gearbox 
needed replacing support that view. I think a new gearbox and clutch after 145,000 miles of 
driving could be expected.
Ms C has suggested the business should have warned her that the gearbox and clutch were 
likely to fail in the near future. I dont think its fair to suggest the business should inform the 
consumer of every component that may be approaching the end of its operational life. I think 
its reasonable to suggest a consumer would expect to have some issues with a high 
mileage vehicle. 
So, Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence this van was of unsatisfactory quality 
when supplied and Im not therefore asking MotoNovo to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman