DRN-4409216
The complaint
Mr T complains Zopa Bank Limited are harassing him regarding a loan when hes got a 
payment arrangement in place with them already. Mr T is also unhappy about their lack of 
response when he raised his complaint.
What happened
My understanding is Mr T took out a loan for £9,000 in March 2020, over a three-year term. 
And, at the time of the complaint, he was in arrears with his repayments.
On 13 February 2023, Mr T contacted Zopa to complain about harassment he said he was 
experiencing from them given he had a repayment plan in place. He said he was getting too 
many contacts from them.
Having got no reply from Zopa, Mr T asked us to look into things. As part of our standard 
practice, we asked Zopa for their version of events.
They let us know their colleague who took Mr Ts call on 13 February 2023 hadnt logged a 
complaint for him  and would arrange to consider it as a matter of urgency.
Zopa issued their response a week later. In it, they said Mr T had a plan in place between 
18 October 2022, and 28 January 2023. And, once a plan ends, if someone is still in arrears 
then theyll be contacted about the current situation. Zopa said they have a responsibility to 
ensure their customers know where their account stands and what action could be taken 
against them. Zopa added they could see Mr T had raised a complaint about this same issue 
before, and at the time it was explained to him an account in arrears would receive regular 
contact. Overall they didnt think theyd done anything wrong in their attempts to contact him, 
but did accept they hadnt handled his request for a complaint to be raised fairly and offered 
him £50 in recognition of this. 
Unhappy with this Mr T asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, but 
didnt think Zopa had done anything wrong with their contacts, and thought the £50 was fair.
Mr T didnt accept this. He said hed been contacted on the phone a lot and wanted this to 
be considered. He intended to get records of incoming calls from Zopa but says his phone 
provider would have required a court order. Instead, he sent us some screenshots of recent 
contact from Zopa.
Our Investigator didnt think this changed her view, so as Mr T was still unhappy, the 
complaints been referred to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain I cant decide if Mr T has or hasnt been harassed. The reason 
for that is because harassment is a criminal offence, and I cant make a legal finding like 
that. Instead, Im required to take into account the law, rules and regulations, and good 
industry practice, but overall decide things on a fair and reasonable basis.
 
Ive looked at emails sent to Mr T, and I dont find them overly demanding or excessive in 
nature. The majority of the emails are providing updates or confirming a payment plan thats 
been agreed. In the circumstances I think its not unreasonable of Zopa to confirm what 
arrangements have been put in place  and I think a lot of the time it helps to create an audit 
trail.
Ive also seen the phone call log Zopa were able to provide  this shows they have 
attempted to call Mr T, but again not a number of times Id consider excessive.
Pulling the timing of the emails and phone calls together, they seem to largely be when Mr T 
is outside of any agreed repayment plans. If that is the situation, and Mr T isnt keeping to 
the contractual agreement  which unfortunately he hasnt been able to  then Id expect 
Zopa to contact him regarding this.
I dont doubt Mr T is feeling frustrated by the contacts from Zopa, but from the review of the 
evidence Ive seen, I cant say theyve been contacting him on a basis Id consider to be an 
excessive amount. Nor can I say their messages are unreasonable in nature. Because of 
that, I dont think Zopa have acted unfairly when theyve been contacting Mr T.
In respect of the delay in logging the complaint, thats disappointing  and Im sure added to 
Mr Ts overall sense of frustration regarding Zopas communication. They offered £50 which 
I do think is fair to reflect the aggravation theyll have put him to.
My final decision
Zopa Bank Limited have already made an offer to pay Mr T £50 to settle the complaint and I 
think this is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is Zopa Bank Limited should pay Mr T £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman