DRN-4513773
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains that ClearBank Limited wont refund the money it lost when 
it was the victim of a scam.
What happened
R is a limited company, whose main business is in construction. In June 2022, one of Rs 
directors received a call from someone claiming to be from ClearBanks fraud department. 
The caller said they were investigating some suspicious activity on Rs account and asked 
the director to scan some QR codes in order to secure the account  which the director did. 
The caller then asked the director to confirm some recent transactions on Rs account, at 
which point the director noticed that a payment of £9,640.10 had been made out of the 
account, clearing the entire balance.
Another director of R then contacted ClearBank separately to confirm if the call was genuine, 
but ClearBank confirmed it wasnt and R was likely the victim of a scam. R then reported the 
payment to ClearBank as fraud and asked it to refund the money it had lost.
ClearBank investigated but said R had authorised the payment by sharing a code with the 
scammer. ClearBank didnt think it should have recognised the payment as suspicious, as 
other payments for similar amounts had previously been made from the account. And it 
didnt think there was anything it could have done to recover the payment once it had been 
sent. So it didnt agree to refund the money R had lost. R wasnt satisfied with ClearBanks 
response, so referred a complaint to our service.
I sent R and ClearBank a provisional decision on 24 November 2023, setting out why I 
wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out 
below:
Did R authorise the payment?
Generally, a business can hold a customer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the customer authorised the payments.
Deciding whether a customer has authorised payments is a two-part test. Firstly the 
payments must be authenticated, and secondly, the customer must have consented to the 
payments being made. And this doesnt necessarily require proving that the customer made 
the payments themselves, as it is possible for a customer to consent to someone else 
making payments on their account.
Clear Bank has sent us evidence which shows the payment was made using Rs online 
banking profile. This means the payment was correctly authenticated, and so I must also 
think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that R consented to the 
payment.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
R has said one of its directors was asked to scan QR codes using their ClearBank mobile 
app in order to secure the account, and that they did can these codes. But it appears these 
codes were actually granting the scammers access to Rs online banking, via a web-version 
of the mobile app.
Even once the scammers had access to Rs online banking in this way, ClearBank says the 
scammers wouldnt have been able to make any payments because any payments set up 
using the web-version of the app need to be approved in the original mobile app. It says if 
any payments were set up using the web-version of the app, a passcode would have been 
sent to the mobile app with a code that needed to be entered before the payment could be 
made.
R says it didnt know any payments were being set up and its director doesnt remember 
entering any codes or approving any payments. But, from what ClearBank has sent us, Im 
satisfied the scammers wouldnt have been able to set up any payments using just the web-
version of the app the QR codes gave them access to. And the evidence ClearBank has 
sent us of the activity on Rs genuine mobile app shows that a payment was approved 
shortly before the scam payment was made.
So while I appreciate Rs director says they dont remember entering any codes or approving 
any payments, I think the evidence here suggests they did do so. And as ClearBank has 
shown that the code I think they were sent would have said it was to complete a payment, I 
also think this means R was aware a payment was being made out of its account.
And so I think R did consent to the payment being made, and did authorise the payment.
Did ClearBank do enough to protect R?
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be responsible for 
those transactions that they have authorised. So while I recognise that R didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, as I think it did authorise the payment, the starting position in law 
is that ClearBank was obliged to follow its instructions and process the payment. So R isnt 
automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So Ive also thought about whether ClearBank did 
enough to try to keep Rs account safe.
But while the payment was for a relatively large amount of money, there were also a number 
of other payments for significant amounts both into and out of Rs account in the months 
before the scam. It also wasnt unusual for R to make this type of payment, for a number of 
payments to be made on the same day  as they were here, or for the balance of the 
account to fluctuate significantly.This type of business account is also often used by customers for occasional large 
payments, so I think its reasonable that ClearBank takes this into account when looking at 
whether certain payments are unusual.
So I think its reasonable that ClearBank didnt identify this payment as particularly unusual 
or suspicious, and didnt intervene or ask any further questions before allowing it to go 
through. I dont think not stopping this payment means that ClearBank didnt do enough to 
protect R.
Did ClearBank do enough to recover the money R lost?
Once they have been notified of a scam, we expect account providers to take reasonable 
steps to try to recover any money their customers have lost. So Ive also considered whether 
ClearBank did enough to try to recover the money R lost.
ClearBank contacted the bank the money was sent to, and was able to recover £0.42 which 
has been paid into Rs account. But the bank the money was sent to has said the rest of the 
funds were removed from the account they went to around one minute after Rs director first 
contacted ClearBank to ask whether the call it had received was genuine. So I dont think 
anything we would reasonably have expected ClearBank to have done would have been 
able to recover any more of the money R lost.
I appreciate that R has been the victim of a cruel scam and has lost a significant amount of 
money. But I can only look at the actions of ClearBank and, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont think ClearBank has acted unreasonably or that anything we would expect it to 
have done would have prevented the scam or recovered any more of the money R lost. So I 
dont think it would be fair to require it to refund the money R lost.
I said Id consider anything further R and ClearBank sent in following the provisional 
decision, provided it was received by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ClearBank responded to the provisional decision saying it agreed with it. And R responded 
saying it did not agree with the outcome. But neither provided any further evidence or 
arguments to be considered.
As neither R nor ClearBank provided anything further to be considered, I still think the 
conclusions I set out in the provisional decision are correct, and for the same reasons.
So I still dont think ClearBank acted unreasonably or that anything we would reasonably 
expected it to have done would have prevented the scam or recovered any more of the 
money R lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman