DRN-3998728
The complaint
Ms P complains about how Covea Insurance Plc (Covea) dealt with a claim she made on 
her car insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2022 Ms P was involved in a road traffic accident and so she made a claim on her 
insurance policy.
Due to the circumstances of the accident Covea appointed a third-party company, who Ill 
call C, to validate the claim. 
C interviewed Ms P and analysed the accident circumstances to provide information to 
Covea on their assessment of the claim. 
Covea took Cs findings into consideration and decided to decline Ms Ps claim. 
In August 2022 Ms P received a letter from Covea. It said it would no longer be dealing with 
any aspect of the claim due to the concerns it had with the validity of the incident. Covea 
advised Ms P to remove her car from storage as it wouldnt be responsible for the storage 
fees. 
Ms P was unhappy with this decision. She complained to Covea and says she wants it to 
pay the claim under the terms of the policy. 
Covea didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint. Covea said it had concerns regarding the validity of 
the claim and so it carried out some additional checks. It said in July 2022 its claims 
department made the decision to withdraw indemnity and informed Ms P it would no longer 
be dealing with her claim. Covea said it instructed an independent investigator and an 
independent engineer to investigate the matter,. Covea said it would be unable to provide 
the exact concerns as it doesnt want to prejudice its position by disclosing full details of the 
concerns or evidence. Covea recommended Ms P obtain her own legal advice. 
Ms P wasnt happy with Coveas response so she referred her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into things for her. She said whilst she could see Covea believed it had a 
valid reason for declining the claim it hadnt given Ms P an opportunity to respond to those 
concerns. And she didnt think that was fair. So she said Covea should put its concerns 
regarding the validity of the incident to Ms P and give her an opportunity to answer them. 
Covea didnt agree. It reiterated its reasons for declining the claim and felt this was enough. 
Covea said it didnt want to prejudice its position by disclosing full details of its concerns or 
evidence. So the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. 
Our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from regulated 
businesses, like Covea, as confidential for a number of reasons. And so I am not able to 
comment specifically on everything I have seen. 
I think its important for me to explain how Ive considered the complaint. Covea have 
declined Ms Ps claim and it has provided this service with information and evidence which 
explains why it has done so. As stated above Im unable to comment on this in detail.  
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
In its letter to Ms P informing her it was no longer dealing with the claim it said, due to the 
serious concerns we have with the validity of the alleged incident as a wholewe are 
withdrawing our position in regard to indemnity. Covea hasnt specified which term of the 
policy it is relying on to decline the claim. And I dont think this is fair or reasonable in the 
circumstances. This is because Ms P should have the opportunity to prove her claim is 
genuine or explain the issue the insurer has concerns about.
I can see Ms P was interviewed at her home regarding the incident circumstances. And she 
provided a handwritten signed statement detailing her recollection of events. But I cant see 
she was ever questioned about the issues Covea had with her statement. 
When considering all the evidence Ive seen, although I recognise the reasons for Coveas 
concerns, I dont think theyre strong enough to satisfy me that it was reasonable to decline 
the claim. Especially given the concerns havent been put to Ms P to enable her to respond 
and prove her claim. 
I understand Covea doesnt wish to prejudice its position by disclosing full details of its 
investigation. But I think it can put some of the key concerns to Ms P without prejudicing its 
position. 
And so I think Covea must take steps to place Ms P back in the position she wouldve been 
in had it not acted unfairly. To do this I think it needs to explain its concerns about the validity 
of the alleged incident and give Ms P an opportunity to answer these. And assess the claim 
thereafter.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Ms P I require Covea to do the following; 
Re-open the claim and put its concerns to Ms P so she has an opportunity to respond
Reassess the claim thereafter 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above I uphold Ms Ps complaint about Covea Insurance Limited 
and direct it to resolve the complaint as I have detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023. 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman