DRN-4107559
The complaint
Ms D complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with her claims under Sections 75 and 140A of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a holiday product she purchased with 
Mr V in 2011.
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Ms Ds, because they relate to a 
credit agreement in her name. But as the holiday product was in Ms D and Mr Vs names, Ill 
refer to Ms D and Mr V throughout much of this decision.
What happened
Ms D and Mr V purchased a timeshare membership from a third party (the Supplier) in 
2011. The purchase was financed by a fixed sum loan agreement provided to Ms D by BPF 
and points traded in from a previous trial membership with the Supplier.
Ms D and Mr V were unhappy with what happened at the time the holiday products were 
sold to them. In August 2019, Ms D and Mr V - using a professional representative (PR) - 
made claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of 
the CCA. There were several reasons given for the claims which can be summarised as 
follows:
Section 75: Misrepresentation
Ms D and Mr V say they were induced into the agreements by a series of 
misrepresentations by the supplier.
Ms D and Mr V were led to believe that they would be able to easily divest their 
points membership if desired, but they then discovered there was no secondary 
market.
Ms D and Mr V were led to believe that they would be able to holiday at any resort in 
the UK and worldwide, any time they wished, even in high season, with 
accommodation of the same standard as they had been shown by the Suppliers 
sales representatives. However, they then struggled to book holidays of an 
equivalent standard at any resort they wished and had to book out of season.
Ms D and Mr V were led to believe the membership was exclusive, but this wasnt the 
case as non-members were also holidaying at the resort and they had often paid a 
lower price for their holiday.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Ms D and Mr V were pressured to purchase the membership being told the offer was 
only available for a limited time and being made to feel they needed to sign the 
contract on the day.
The duration of the Membership and/or the obligation to pay management fees were 
unfair under Regulation 5 of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 
1999 (UTCCRs").
The practices followed by the Supplier were breaches of the Consumer Protection 
from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 ("CPRs). It was said that the Suppliers sales 
presentation and sales process included statements which were untrue about the 
Membership and, as the Supplier was acting as BPFs agent, this can be considered 
under Section 140A of the CCA.
Ms D and Mr V also say that the loan should never have been provided as the required 
affordability checks werent undertaken before the loan was granted. And that they 
discovered after receiving the loan that this was at a significantly higher rate of interest than 
that being provided by other lenders.
Ms D and Mr V referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our adjudicator issued a view in May 2022. She concluded that:
The Section 75 claim for misrepresentation was made out of time under the 
Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
The Section 140A claim wasnt upheld as she hadnt seen enough to suggest that the 
relationship between Ms D and Mr V and BPF was unfair.
Because of this, our investigator didnt think BPF was required to take any further action.
Ms D and Mr V didnt agree with our investigators view. The PR submitted a 46 page 
opinion from a barrister covering a number of generic submissions and in direct response to 
the view said that the claim under Section 140A should be upheld.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings were as follows:
Section 75: Misrepresentation
When a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier, they can, in certain 
circumstances, make a like claim against their lender under section 75 of the CCA. The 
claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the consumer could make against the 
supplier provided its made inside the relevant limitation period.
But a section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 of the Limitation Act 1980. And the limitation period under that provision is six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Only a court can decide whether Ms Ds claim was made out of time under the LA. But the 
Acts still relevant here, as I need to take it into account in deciding whether BPFs response 
to the claim was reasonable.
The date on which the cause of action accrued is the point at which Ms D and Mr V entered 
into the purchase agreement. I say this because they entered into the agreement based on 
the alleged misrepresentation by the Supplier  which they relied on. The purchase was paid 
for using points from Ms D and Mr Vs previous trial membership and the rest by a fixed sum 
loan agreement between Ms D and BPF. This was entered into in April 2011, and it is at this 
time the loss was suffered.
It follows therefore that I think the cause of action accrued in 2011 when Ms D and Mr V 
made their purchase and Ms D took out the loan agreement. This means that this claim had to be made within six years of that date. As the claim wasnt made until August 2019, I think 
its likely to have fallen outside of the time limits set in the LA.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
I have also considered section 140A, particularly focusing on whether the loan and sale were 
brought about by selling methods on the part of the Supplier that were unfair or misleading. 
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Ms D and BPF was 
unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I have considered whether it 
applied to the credit agreement.
As the loan agreement was still outstanding in April 2022, I do not find there is any issue in 
regard to the timing of the claim in respect to the LA. Therefore, I have considered whether 
Ms Ds claim under Section 140A should be upheld.
I have considered the issues of misrepresentation that Ms D and Mr V have made and 
whether these suggest the relationship between Ms D and BPF was unfair. Ms D and Mr V 
said they were led to believe that they would be able to easily divest their points membership 
if desired, but they then discovered there was no secondary market. They also said that they 
were led to believe that they would be able to holiday at any resort in the UK and worldwide, 
any time they wished, even in high season, with accommodation of the same standard as 
they had been shown by the Suppliers sales representatives and that their membership was 
exclusive, but this wasnt true. While I note the comments Ms D and Mr V have made, I 
havent seen enough to show me that they were guaranteed availability at any time or that 
their membership was exclusive. I also havent seen enough to show me that they were told 
they would be able to divest their interest easily if desired. Therefore, having looked through 
the information provided I do not find I have enough to say that the issues Ms D and Mr V 
have raised constituted misrepresentations and so I do not consider these issues support 
the argument of the agreement between Ms D and BPF being unfair.
The PR has also alleged that there were breaches of the Unfair Terms in Consumer 
Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCRs) and Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations 2008  which were provisions referred to in the barristers generic submissions. 
As these allegations are relevant to an assessment of unfairness, I have considered these 
further. From the information provided, Ms D and Mr V were invited to a free breakfast with 
the Suppliers sales representatives, taken for a tour of the resort and shown several 
properties before being taken back to the sales suite to be told about buying membership 
points. Based on this Ms D and Mr V traded in their Trial Membership for 1,000 Points in the 
Points Membership and paid for the rest through a fixed sum loan agreement. While I 
appreciate the comments made about the information given and how this was presented, in 
this case, I havent seen enough to persuade me that Ms D and Mr V were pressured into 
the purchase or that they had no option but to go ahead. I also note they didnt try to 
withdraw from the agreement.
In regard to the annual fee and management charges Ms D and Mr V were required to pay, 
they were described in parts of the point of sale paperwork, including the Members 
Declaration  which was only a page long and had to be signed by Ms D and Mr V. So, I find 
it unlikely that they were unaware that there would be ongoing costs to membership.
There are a number of allegations in relation to the terms. Yet, the relevant terms havent 
been submitted. So, its difficult to see how such allegations were arrived at. And in my view, 
even if some of them go against the requirements of the UTCCR, unless theyve been 
operated unfairly against Ms D and Mr V or are likely to be in the future, the debtor-creditor 
relationship is unlikely to have been unfair. I say this because I cant see that the terms in question were operated unfairly against Ms D and Mr V during the life of their membership. 
And, in my opinion, the prospect of any ongoing unfairness is limited.
Based on the information available I do not find I have enough to say that had BPF 
considered the claim under Section 140A of the CCA this should have been upheld.
Irresponsible lending
The PR said that there were breaches of the guidelines when the loan was provided to Ms D 
and that adequate checks werent undertaken. I have no information in regard to the checks 
BPF carried out before the loan was provided so I accept that adequate checks may not 
have taken place.
However, to uphold this part of the complaint I would need to be satisfied that had adequate 
checks taken place, BPF would have realised that the lending was unaffordable for Ms D. As 
I have no information to show this was the case, I do not find I can uphold this part of the 
complaint.
Ms D didnt agree with my provisional decision. She provided a statement about the sales 
process. She said they were told if they purchased holiday membership points, they would 
be able to have family holidays in the lodges, as well as luxury holidays all over the world. 
She said they didnt have the money to pay for the purchase but were assured this wasnt a 
problem and finance could be arranged and they agreed to trade in their trial membership 
and were provided with a loan for the remainder of the cost. Ms D said that the next day a 
representative came to their apartment to ask them to sign a new contract with BPF because 
the previous agreement hadnt gone through. She said she wasnt told this was at a higher 
rate of interest. Ms D said the sales process wasnt correct and the product promised wasnt 
delivered and because of this the loan should be relinquished.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required to take into account the relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances.
As Ive explained, the PR submitted an opinion by a barrister called Generic submissions on 
behalf of complainants. As the PR suggests that the opinion is relevant to Ms Ds complaint, 
I have taken it into account but only insofar as it discusses points that are of direct relevance 
to this complaint. 
I set out my conclusions and reasons for these in my provisional decision. I have considered 
the information Ms D has provided in response, but this doesnt change my conclusions. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think any claim under Section 75 of the CCA is 
likely to be considered out of time under the LA. 
In regard to Section 140A of the CCA, I do not find that the additional information provided 
changes my conclusion. That is that I do not find I have enough evidence to say that the issues Ms D raised about the availability holidays, the exclusivity of the holiday product and 
the ability to divest their points constituted misrepresentations and so I do not consider these 
issues support the argument of the agreement between Ms D and BPF being unfair. I note 
the comment Ms D made about the new contract being provided the following day and this 
having a higher interest rate but as this information was available to her before she signed I 
do not find this can be said to be a misrepresentation. 
In regard to the sales process, Ms D reiterated that they were taken for a breakfast and 
given a tour and shown information about several properties before being told about buying 
membership. However, as I previously noted, in this case, I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that Ms D and Mr V were pressured into the purchase or that they had no 
option but to go ahead. I also note they didnt try to withdraw from the agreement. 
Given the above, while I have considered Ms Ds response to my provisional decision in this 
case, I do not find I have enough to say that had BPF considered the claim under Section 
140A of the CCA this should have been upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman