DRN-2692877
The complaint
The estate of Mrs F (the estate) complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) caused 
delays in dealing with the bank account.
What happened
Mr F is the sole executor of the estate of Mrs F  and he has brought this complaint to this 
service on behalf of the estate. Mrs F died a number of years ago. There was a prior 
executors account with two different executors to Mr F. In 2018, Mrs Fs will was discovered 
and it nominated Mr F as sole executor. In November 2019, he was appointed sole executor 
of the will by Grant of Probate. He visited a branch of Barclays on 9 December 2019 on 
behalf of the estate with the Grant of Probate and asked that the bank accounts be changed 
to reflect this. They were changed on 10 February 2020.
Mr F complained on behalf of the estate about this. When he visited the Barclays branch he 
was told the change would take a week. He said the delays were caused by the involvement 
of Barclays legal department. And as Barclays ignored the Grant of Probate  they were 
acting in contempt of a legal document. And Barclays asked Mr F to get the authority of the 
previous executors (his siblings) to agree they be taken off the existing executors account  
but this wouldve only caused a further dispute. Barclays asked Mr F to go to a meeting at 
Canary Wharf in February 2020 to produce various documents before they could change the 
account  this was inconvenient. 
Barclays responded in February 2020. They apologised that Mr F was misled by what he 
was told at the branch in December 2019  the process in such a case would normally take 
more than a week. They noted Mr F had had to make several calls to them to chase up what 
was happening. The account would be changed to show Mr F as executor for the estate 
(and the account was active on 10 February 2020). Barclays offered compensation of £100 
for the inconvenience the estate had suffered. 
Mr F brought the estates complaint to this service. Our investigator said Barclays had acted 
reasonably. They said that he had been misinformed about the time it would take to change 
the account  and theyd apologised and offered compensation of £100. He agreed that the 
time take to change the account took longer than necessary  but Barclays offer was 
reasonable. He couldnt see any costs to the estate of the delays experienced  other than 
the inconvenience to the estate.
Mr F on behalf of the estate asked that the complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been brought by Mr F, as the executor of the estate of his late mother, 
Mrs F. So  we look at this complaint in terms of what happened concerning the banking 
arrangements of the estate of Mrs F, and the impact on the estate of Barclays actions on the 
estate as Barclays customer. But I have to distinguish this from any impact on Mr F 
personally, as the eligible complainant is the estate itself, rather Mr F himself as an 
individual.
I can see how frustrating this was for Mr F. His mother died a number of years ago, and his 
siblings had firstly been appointed as representatives for her estate. The executors account 
in their names had been open since 2013. The late Mrs Fs will was later found which 
appointed Mr F as sole executor. He had not had a good relationship with his siblings  so to 
take them off the bank accounts was going to be difficult and contentious. When he visited 
the branch of Barclays on 9 December 2019, he was told the process would take a week. It 
took until 10 February 2020  nine weeks. He couldnt see why Barclays legal team had to 
be involved  he suspects this lengthened the process. He thinks that the delays also meant 
that Barclays acted in contempt of a legal document (the Grant of Probate). He objected to 
Barclays suggestion that he ask his siblings for their authority to be taken off the existing 
account  as this would only have caused further disputes with them. He said that the 
meeting he had to attend in person was inconvenient.
Ive reviewed everything that both sides have sent us and told us, and I think Barclays acted 
reasonably  and I will explain why.
The root cause of this complaint was that it was told that the change would only take a week. 
That was an error  and Barclays apologised for that. And given the background here  a 
request to change executors accounts by taking off two persons and replacing them with 
another  it seems reasonable to me that Barclays would want to make sure the legal 
documents they were given were correct and in order. So, for them to involve their legal 
department to do this  again, seems reasonable to me in the individual circumstances here. 
But - that inevitably took some time. 
I can appreciate that Mr F objected to Barclays proposal that his siblings be asked to be 
taken off the account  given the background of their relationship. But I can see that 
Barclays did then agree to change the account so that Mr F was the executor. But equally, 
after what had happened here  I can see that this meant that Barclays would want to make 
sure their due diligence was followed in making the changes that Mr F wanted for the estate.
Barclays told us  that because of the situation, they felt it was the right thing to do to meet 
Mr F and go through the documents and also validate his proof of identification and address. 
Again, that seems fair to me  but unfortunately, this also caused a further delay. Once 
theyd met Mr F (on 5 February 2020) - the account was changed, and Ive seen it was live 
by 10 February 2020. 
I can appreciate that as a result of Mr Fs expectations being that the change of account 
would take only a few days  Mr F had to make calls to Barclays bereavement and legal 
teams, amongst others. This was unfortunate, but I think Barclays apology and offer of 
compensation acknowledges the inconvenience this caused to the estate. Again, while Mr F 
has told us about the frustration this caused him personally, I can only consider the impact 
on the estate here.
Mr F says that Barclays acted in contempt in not simply accepting the Grant of Probate they 
were presented with. That is specifically a legal question  which Im not going to comment on the legality of  where this service is an alternative to the courts rather than having 
comparable legal powers. But, looking at the circumstances they were presented with, I think 
it was reasonable for them to ensure the documents were acceptable from their point of 
view, especially given what theyd been told about the situation here.
The estate has said that Mr F incurred costs of the delay but hasnt brought forward any. So, 
as I see it, I am left with a decision to make regarding the inconvenience caused.
So  and I can appreciate that Mr F will be disappointed by my decision on behalf of the 
estate - I think that Barclays have acted reasonably, and I wont be asking them to do 
anymore here. Their offer of compensation of £100 still stands, and if Mr F now wishes to 
accept this on behalf of the estate, he should contact Barclays to arrange payment.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman