DRN-3607081
The complaint
Mr W complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a car insurance claim.
What happened
Mr W has car insurance underwritten by Aviva. He made a claim in August 2021 after he 
was involved in a road traffic accident. 
The background is well known to both parties, so Ill give only a brief summary here.
Aviva settled the claim and paid full costs to the third partys insurer on the basis that Mr W 
was at fault for the accident. 
After having Mr Ws car inspected by an engineer, they categorised the car as a category N 
write off. This means the car can be repaired following non-structural damage and can be 
used again if repaired to a roadworthy condition.
In short, Avivas engineer said the repairs required to restore the vehicle to its pre-accident 
condition would have cost more than the vehicle was worth, so it was beyond economical 
repair.
On that basis, Aviva gave Mr W three options. They said they would pay him the market 
value of the car (less the £300 excess). Or they would return the car to him and pay him the 
market value less the excess and less the amount they would receive for salvage. Or he 
could accept no settlement and the car would not be written off.
Mr W took the car back. And Aviva paid him the market value less the excess and the 
salvage cost. But Mr W was unhappy with the way the claim had been handled and with the 
outcome.
Mr W made a complaint to Aviva before the claim was settled. He thought Aviva shouldnt 
have accepted full liability for the accident and the costs should have been split 50/50. He 
also felt it was unfair for Aviva to retain the salvage value of the vehicle after they returned it 
to him. 
Mr W has also said he was unhappy to be left without a car for the best part of two months 
whilst the matter was settled, except for the two weeks or so when he had a courtesy car 
from the garage that inspected the vehicle. He was also unhappy that he paid his monthly 
car insurance premiums to Aviva during that period.
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. They said the decision on liability was the right one 
and they wouldnt have been able to successfully argue the case in court. They also said 
their engineers report had been checked by a senior technical expert and they could find no 
reason to reverse the decision to declare the car beyond economical repair.
Mr W wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He says hes now had 
the car repaired and made roadworthy  its passed its MOT  at around half the cost 
estimated by Avivas engineer. He says this shows the decision to declare it beyond 
economical repair was wrong.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. Mr W 
disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy.
Section 2 of the policy covers damage or loss after an accident. Its says that where theres 
damage to the insured vehicle:
The Insurer will decide either to:
Repair the damage themselves; or
Pay to have the damage repaired; or
Pay to replace what is lost or damaged if this is more cost effective than 
repairing it; or
Pay (the policyholder) an amount equal to the loss or damage.
It also says a courtesy car will be provided by the repairer, subject to availability, while any 
damage is being repaired.
Section 13 sets out general policy conditions. Amongst other things, it says:
The Insurer is entitled under this policy to take over and conduct the defence and 
settlement of any claim in your name
Bearing those provisions in mind, Ill deal with Mr Ws complaint points individually below.
Liability
The policy terms make it clear that Aviva will make the decision about whether and how to 
contest liability in the event of a claim. In this case then, they are entitled to make a decision 
about liability without getting Mr Ws approval or agreement.
Its not for me to second guess any judgement Aviva have made about the prospects of 
success in defending the claim in court. However, our service takes the view that Aviva 
should be able to explain any such decision to a policyholder and should be able to 
demonstrate that theyve taken all the relevant evidence and information into account when 
making their judgement.
It seems to me Aviva have explained to Mr W very clearly why theyve taken the decision on 
liability that they have. Mr W clearly understands Avivas position, he simply doesnt agree 
with it.
Im also satisfied that Aviva have taken into account all the relevant information and 
evidence about the accident, including Mr Ws representations about what happened. 
Indeed, it would appear theres no real dispute here about what happened. The 
disagreement is about how those facts might be viewed in a court.Mr W has put forward some interesting legal arguments, citing previous court cases. Its not 
for me to comment on them, although Im sure theyre cogent and coherent. Ive no doubt 
the opposing arguments are also cogent and coherent.
The important point for me in making this decision is that Aviva have looked at all the facts  
and theyre well aware of Mr Ws legal arguments. Their view remains that theres little 
prospect that those arguments would win the day in court if they were to dispute liability in 
this particular case.
There are entitled to take that view. And, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, 
they are entitled to make a decision about how to proceed with the claim.
I cant see any reason then to conclude that Aviva have treated Mr W in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably in making the decision to accept liability in this case.
The decision that the car was beyond economical repair
The policy term quoted above makes it clear that the insurer will decide whether to repair the 
car themselves, pay for repairs, pay to replace the vehicle, or pay the policyholder a sum 
equal to its value.
Again, they dont need Mr Ws agreement or approval when deciding how to settle the claim. 
Although, again, wed expect that they would act fairly and reasonably towards Mr W and be 
able to justify any decision they make.
The engineer who inspected the car produced a report which said the repairs required to 
restore the vehicle would cost almost £3,400. This was more than the market value of the 
car at the time.
When Mr W queried that, Aviva had their own technical expert review the report. Their 
conclusion was that the costed repairs were required and that the prices quoted for those 
repairs were reasonable.
At present, and certainly at the time Aviva made their decision about how to settle the claim, 
those were the only expert views available. And the simple maths led Aviva to the conclusion 
that it was more cost effective to pay Mr W the market value of the car rather than have it 
repaired  at a cost which was more than its current market value.
Mr W says hes had repairs carried out at a cost of around £1,500. Thats less than half the 
market value of the car, according to Avivas own calculations at the time.
I dont doubt Mr W has paid around £1,500 to make his car roadworthy. And although we 
havent seen any invoice to say what repairs were carried out, the car has now passed its 
latest MOT. 
However, its entirely reasonable to think that the costs Aviva would have had to incur to 
restore the car to its pre-accident condition are not the same as the costs Mr W has incurred 
simply to make the car roadworthy.
In short, Im satisfied that at the time they made their decision about how to settle the claim, 
Aviva properly took into account the expert engineers views about the costs of the required 
repairs.
Deducting the salvage price from the settlementMr W says it was unfair for Aviva to deduct the £995 they would have made from selling the 
car for salvage from the settlement figure they paid to him. He says the policy says nothing 
at all about the deduction of salvage payments in these circumstances.
Mr W is right that the policy terms dont specifically set out what will happen if the vehicle is 
written off and a settlement made on that basis, but the policyholder opts to retain the car.
To be frank, sometimes its not necessary to set things out in the policy terms. The logic of 
the position simply speaks for itself.
In short, Aviva offered Mr W the full market value of the car. If hed taken that option, they 
would have retained the damaged vehicle. Otherwise, Mr W would be both having his cake 
and eating it. And Im satisfied they would have got the price for it that theyre suggesting - 
£995.
Aviva offered Mr W the option to take the car back. But of course, in that situation they will 
want to recoup the funds they could have realised by selling the car for salvage.
Taking a step back and looking at this logically, Mr W is suggesting that Aviva should have 
paid him the full market value of the car but also returned the car to him, despite the fact that 
its worth just under £1,000 if sold for salvage.
The purpose of any insurance policy is to indemnify the policyholder against loss. In other 
words, to put him or her back in the position they were in before the loss occurred. Mr W 
cant reasonably expect that in this case Aviva are going to pay him the full value of his car 
and give him his car (which has a residual value) back too.
In summary, Im satisfied its not unreasonable for Aviva to deduct from the settlement the 
amount they could have realised by selling the car for salvage. I dont think theres any 
dispute about the valuation Aviva put on the car. It clearly reflected the top end of the market 
values quoted by the relevant car valuation guides.
The courtesy car
Mr W had a courtesy car from the garage that inspected the vehicle up until the time it 
became clear that they werent going to carry out repairs.
After that point, Avivas obligations to provide a courtesy car under the policy terms (see 
above) ceased. In any case, its clear that any delay in the settlement being made (allowing 
Mr W to replace or repair his car) was due to Mr W disputing the outcome. And as I set out 
above, there wasnt any error on Avivas part which led to the delay in the settlement. 
The insurance payments
Mr W took out an annual insurance policy with Aviva. He paid for that on a monthly basis 
because he entered a credit agreement. Essentially, the premium covers the year and 
covers any loss which occurs during that period.
If Mr W had cancelled his policy, in other circumstances, he may have been due a pro rata 
refund from his annual premium. Logically, Mr W is saying he should have a two month 
refund because he wasnt driving a car in that period.
However, the annual premium covers the risk over the course of the year. And in Mr Ws 
cause the risk had already become an actuality. Hed been involved in an accident and 
made a claim. It wouldnt be fair, in those circumstances, to ask Aviva to refund any part of the annual 
premium. To put it as simply as I can, you pay your annual premium to cover a risk over the 
course of a year. You cant then expect, for example, a refund of eleven-twelfths of the 
premium if you have an accident in the first month. You have, at that point, essentially had 
full value from your annual premium.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman