DRN-4429591
The complaint
Ms K complains because Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) didnt pay a claim under her 
private medical insurance policy. 
Ms K also complains about how Vitality handled her claim, Vitalitys failure to ensure she had 
access to her policy documents and Vitalitys auto-renewal of her policy.  
What happened
Ms K has held a private medical insurance policy, provided by Vitality, since 2018. The 
policy renews automatically on an annual basis. 
In April 2019, Ms K enquired with Vitality about making a claim relating to her shoulder. The 
claim never went ahead. 
In December 2021, Vitality sent Ms K an email saying she needed to update her account 
details to access its online member zone. 
In December 2022, Vitality received invoices for medical investigations and consultations 
which Ms K had earlier the same month. The invoices Vitality were sent quoted the claim 
reference number which had been allocated to Ms Ks enquiry in April 2019.  
On 22 December 2022, Vitality emailed Ms K in relation to her claim. Ms K telephoned 
Vitality on the same day to say she couldnt access the online member zone. Vitality restored 
Ms Ks member zone access and said it would arrange a call-back for her in relation to her 
claim. On 30 December 2022, Ms K chased Vitality for the call-back shed been promised 
and sent it a letter from her GP. On 31 December 2022, 4 January 2023 and 6 January 2023 
Vitality sent Ms K correspondence saying the costs she was claiming for werent covered 
under her policy as they hadnt been authorised in advance. 
Ms K made a complaint to Vitality in March 2023 and said shed been given authorisation for 
the claim during a telephone call with Vitality on 5 December 2022. Vitality sent Ms K a final 
response letter in April 2023 maintaining its position that her claim wasnt covered. 
Unhappy, Ms K brought the matter to the attention of our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what had happened and said she didnt think Vitality had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances. Ms K didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the 
complaint has been referred to me as the final stage in our process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the civil courts. While the law 
is a relevant consideration when making my final decision and is something which Ive taken 
into account, Im not bound to strictly apply it. Ive also had regard to relevant industry rules 
set out by the regulator (namely, the Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook) when making my decision about Ms Ks complaint, but my over-
riding remit is to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Private medical insurance policies dont cover every claim for the cost of private medical 
care. Mrs K isnt paying Vitality for access to private healthcare  she is paying for Vitality to 
cover the cost of private healthcare in certain circumstances as set out in her contract with it. 
Most, if not all, private medical insurance policies in the UK require a policyholder to contact 
the insurer in advance to request pre-authorisation for a claim. This isnt unfair. And this 
doesnt mean that a policyholder requires an insurers permission to access private medical 
care  it simply means that, if a policyholder wants a claim to be paid under their policy, they 
need to obtain authorisation from their insurer in advance because not every consultant, 
hospital and/or treatment may be eligible for cover under the terms and conditions of their 
policy. 
Ms K holds Consultant Select cover, which means that only claims relating to consultants 
which are recognised by Vitality are covered under the policy. Ms Ks policy certificate clearly 
states that Vitality will choose a consultant for Ms K and will only pay for treatment that has 
been authorised in advance. 
Insurers have a duty to provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim. I 
dont think the extract from Vitalitys website which Ms K has provided is unclear. This says 
that policyholders need to go to the member zone to start a new care request. Im satisfied 
that Ms K knew in December 2021 that she needed to reactivate her member zone account 
 regardless of whether the notification from Vitality specifically said that Ms K would be 
unable to access the account unless it was reactivated. If Ms K was unable to access the 
member zone and/or access and review her policy terms and conditions before she 
arranged her private medical investigations in December 2022, then I dont think its 
unreasonable to expect Ms K to have contacted Vitality for further information about how to 
make a claim at that point. But, by the time Ms K contacted Vitality to let it know that she 
couldnt access her member zone account, her medical investigations had already taken 
place. Furthermore, Vitalitys records show Ms K was told in April 2019 that only claims to 
see certain consultants were covered under the terms and conditions of her policy. 
Ive seen no evidence of a telephone call taking place between Ms K and Vitality on 5 
December 2022 and, in any event, I find it unlikely that Vitality would have incorrectly 
confirmed cover for Ms Ks claim or incorrectly led her to believe that her claim would be 
covered in these circumstances. 
This means I dont think Ms Ks claim is covered under her policy, and I dont think Vitality 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances by turning down her claim. Ms Ks 
private medical care wasnt authorised in advance by Vitality and, if Ms K had contacted 
Vitality in advance, shed have been told that the consultant in question wasnt one who was 
covered under her policy. The fact that Ms K subsequently discovered she couldnt access 
the member zone and/or her policy terms and conditions doesnt mean it would be fair and 
reasonable for Vitality to depart from a strict application of the cover Ms K holds and pay her 
claim regardless. Overall, having taken into account the information which Ms K did have 
access to, Im satisfied that it would have been reasonable for Ms K to have contacted 
Vitality before she arranged for her private medical care. The time that passed between the 
events of April 2019 and/or December 2021, and December 2022 doesnt change my 
decision on this point.
I can understand why Vitality may not have appreciated that the invoices it received in 
December 2022, which contained the claim reference number from April 2019, in fact related 
to a different, new claim. However, Ive listened to a call between Ms K and Vitality which took place on 22 December 2022 and I think Vitality could have done more during that call to 
clarify the situation. I also note that Vitality didnt arrange for a call-back to Ms K, as it had 
said it would do. But, by this point, Ms K had already had the medical investigations and 
consultations which are being claimed for. So, I dont think any failings by Vitality in how it 
dealt with Ms Ks claim disadvantaged her financially. And Vitality sent its final response 
letter to Ms K within the timeframe set out by the regulator. 
Ms Ks policy renews automatically and has done since its inception in 2018. The policy 
terms and conditions say that Vitality will automatically renew the policy, and Vitality sent Ms 
K notice on 5 October 2022 that her policy would automatically renew on 1 November 2022. 
Im satisfied that Vitality was entitled to automatically renew Ms Ks policy and that it did so in 
line with the relevant industry rules and guidance applicable at the time. The fact that Vitality 
may have followed a different renewal process in subsequent years doesnt mean that 
Vitality acted incorrectly, unfairly or unreasonably when it automatically renewed the policy in 
2022. 
Im sorry to hear that Ms K is being pursued by a third party for the costs of her private 
medical care and I have no doubt that this will be stressful, but I dont think Vitality has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances so I wont be directing it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman