DRN-4080938
The complaint
Miss S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (Virgin), irresponsibly 
granted her a credit card she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss S entered into an agreement with Virgin to have access to credit with a credit card 
account. The account was opened in October 2019 with a credit limit of £2,100. The credit 
limit was later increased to £2,600, in January 2022. 
Miss S says Virgin didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened the  
account and shouldnt have gone on to increase her credit limit, worsening her financial 
position. 
Our adjudicator said that Virgin shouldnt have increased Miss Ss credit limit in 
January 2022 as by that point its likely that the account was no longer affordable for her  
As Virgin has not formally responded to our adjudicators view partially upholding the 
complaint, which was issued in March, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S could 
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the Miss Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of 
a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Virgin should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include:
the lower a Miss Ss income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Account Opening  October 2019
Before granting the account Virgin says it looked into Miss Ss financial situation, but its only 
been able to supply us with a limited amount of information about the credit check it carried 
out at the time. Ive seen that Miss S provided Virgin with details about her income and 
occupation when making her application, showing her as having an annual income of around 
£17,000. Miss S has also told us that at the time she was living with her parents and not 
paying any rent, council tax or utility charges. 
The credit check Virgin carried out would have given information about how much, if any, 
Miss S already owed to other creditors. I can see also that Virgin recorded her as owing 
around £680 to other creditors. But I cant see what if any details Virgin had discovered 
about her previous credit history. 
Weve seen Miss Ss bank statements from the time of the account opening. Her net monthly 
income is consistent with what she said about her annual income, working out at around 
£1,200 net per month. And I agree with our adjudicator that her typical monthly expenditure 
looks to have been around £740. Based on what Ive seen, I therefore think Virgin could 
have carried out better checks before granting the credit. Verifying Miss Ss income, for 
instance, would have been a proportionate way for Virgin to establish that the opening credit 
limit would be affordable. I also think finding out more about Miss Ss level of monthly 
committed expenditure, such as regular monthly outgoings and other credit repayments, 
would also have helped Virgin to gain a more thorough understanding of Miss Ss financial 
circumstances before agreeing to open the account. I say this having also noted that the 
opening credit limit of £2,100 would have taken up a significant proportion of her disposable 
income, once the whole limit was used. 
Credit limit increase  January 2022
I think it would have been proportionate for Virgin to have verified Miss Ss financial 
circumstances before granting the increase to £2,600. One way of doing this would be to 
check copies of her bank statements. Ive reviewed three months of Miss Ss bank 
statements leading up to the lending decision. 
Ive seen that by this point Miss Ss monthly net income had gone up to around £1,500 each 
month. Miss S told us she was by then renting a property as a tenant so her housing costs 
had gone up considerably, to the extent that she was now having to find an additional £850 
per month. She was also having to pay for other essential such as food, travel, insurance 
and car costs, as well as paying towards other credit, including store and credit cards. Ive 
also noted from Miss Ss credit report that she took out two new loans during 2021, one 
payable over just over three years and the other payable over two years. 
Virgin has also confirmed that Miss S was fully utilising  and sometimes exceeding -her 
level of available credit in the months leading up to the credit limit increase. She was also 
making regular use of her overdraft. Given that her credit limit had now been increased, I 
think there was a significant possibility that the limited disposable income she was likely to 
be left with  which I broadly agree would be around £160 - would end up being used to go 
towards the increased use of her credit. 
So I am in agreement with our adjudicator that, whilst Miss S was now earning a higher 
monthly income, the addition of housing costs, added debt from new loans and increased credit usage would leave her with a negligible amount of disposable income. If she went on 
to use the additional credit she was given making minimum payments, there would be a real 
possibility she would be left with no disposable income at all. I think this all demonstrates 
that Miss S would be unable to sustainably afford the additional borrowing provided by the 
credit limit increase. 
Putting things right  what Virgin needs to do
Virgin shouldnt have increased Miss Ss credit limit from £2,100 to £2,600. Virgin therefore 
needs to do the following: 
Rework Miss Ss account to ensure that all interest and charges should be 
removed from the account for balances over £2,100, being the previous credit limit 
increase. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made, Virgin should contact Miss S to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the account. Once Miss S has repaid the outstanding balance, 
it should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file from 
January 2022. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss S, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. Virgin should also remove any adverse information from Miss Ss 
credit file from January 2022. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Virgin to take off tax from this interest. Virgin must 
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
Your text here I therefore partially uphold this complaint and require Clydesdale Bank Plc to 
pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman