DRN-3468896
The complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) declined his 
attempted credit card transaction and then said theyd reduced his credit limit.   
What happened
Mr B holds a credit card account with Amex. On 23 September 2021, Mr B attempted a 
transaction for £3,371.70 using his Amex card. He says there was credit available of £7,563 
on his account. But the transaction was declined by Amex. Mr B received a notification from 
Amex advising they were unable to approve the transaction as his account was under 
financial review. Amex said theyd be reaching out to you shortly with more details.
Shortly after, Mr B received a further notification from Amex. They said, we have recently 
performed a review of youraccountour review has concluded with the decision to reduce 
your credit limit. The reduced limit meant Mr B only had £163 available on his account. 
So, he couldnt complete his transaction.
Mr B contacted Amex using their online chat facility. He wasnt happy theyd reduced his limit 
while he was attempting a transaction. Amex suggested Mr B call their credit team to discuss 
the situation. They provided a contact number and details of office hours. Mr B called the 
number twice, but messages suggested their office was closed. He then called again, this 
time inputting a different card number and successfully spoke with Amex. 
He asked Amex if he could transfer £3,300 from his bank account to his Amex account and 
attempt the transaction again. But they didnt recommend he do that. Unhappy with his 
experience, Mr B wrote to Amex on 24 September 2021 to complain. He couldnt understand 
why theyd reduced his limit as he always made payments on time and for more than the 
minimum required. He also said he hadnt used his card for some time.
Mr B wanted Amex to explain why his account had been reviewed and why theyd decided to 
reduce his limit. He said theyd reduced his limit previously in similar circumstances. Amexs 
actions meant hed missed out on a reward points offer. Mr B wanted Amex to cancel his 
account on 15 October  he wanted to retain the insurance cover offered until then. He also 
wanted Amex to refund their annual fee of £195. He said he was arranging to refinance the 
account with another provider.
Amex responded to Mr Bs complaint by email on 18 October 2021. They didnt agree theyd 
done anything wrong. They said their terms and conditions allowed them to regularly review 
the credit limit offered. And a reduction may be made to reduce the outstanding debt and to 
prevent financial difficulty to the card member. Amex said theyd considered many factors 
including Mr Bs credit score, payment history and information from external credit agencies. 
They said they werent required to give specific reasons for reducing his limit.
Mr B wasnt happy with Amexs response. So, he decided to refer his complaint to this 
service. Having considered all the information and evidence, our investigator thought Amex 
were entitled to review and reduce Mr Bs credit limit and didnt agree theyd done anything 
wrong or treated him unfairly.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators findings. He thought Amex shouldve advised him 
sooner and believed theyd deliberately chosen to review his account prompted by his 
attempted transaction on 23 September 2021. He also wasnt happy theyd failed to answer 
his calls until hed rang inputting a different card number. He thought they were avoiding him.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I believe its important to clarify the role of this service when considering Mr Bs 
complaint here. As our investigator has already explained, it isnt our role to ask a business 
to alter its procedures or processes or impose improvements on the level of service offered 
to their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Bs experience with them. When considering Mr Bs complaint, Ive also 
considered any relevant rules and regulations set down by the FCA in their handbook  
where they apply. 
The level of credit Amex are willing to extend to Mr B is a business decision for them, and 
not one this service would look to influence or dictate. We also cant ask Amex to reinstate a 
credit limit  theyre entitled to reduce it where they believes its appropriate. However, I 
would expect Amex to ensure that such a decision doesnt result in financial difficulties or 
hardship for Mr B.
Mr B told Amex he had funds to cover the payment on another account. So, while I 
appreciate Amexs decision will have caused some inconvenience, Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest their actions resulted in any financial difficulties or hardship for Mr B.
Mr B is unhappy that Amexs decision wasnt communicated until after his transaction 
attempt had been declined. I appreciate this will have been frustrating. But equally, given 
Amex had made their decision, it wouldnt have been appropriate to allow the transaction 
before then reducing the limit, even though they hadnt yet informed him. This couldve led to 
additional interest and fees together with a limit excess reported on Mr Bs credit file. So, I 
cant reasonably say Amex were wrong to decline the transaction.
Mr B is unhappy that subsequent interest applied to his account resulted in him exceeding 
his new limit. But Mr Bs statement told him in advance what the interest would be together 
with the expected minimum payment. So, I think Mr B had sufficient time to arrange to cover 
any shortfall against the new limit.
Mr B wants Amex to explain why they reviewed his account and what prompted the 
reduction in his limit. Every business uses their own procedures and policies when 
considering if and how much they want to lend to an individual. Their decision will consider 
many variables and each business may have differing parameters and appetites to lend. It 
wouldnt be appropriate for Amex to give specific details of their own policies and 
parameters. This information is likely to be business sensitive and potentially open to 
exploitation. I think Amex are entitled to regularly review the limits they offer. Their terms and 
conditions allow that and thats what they did here. 
Mr B suggested Amex were avoiding his calls when he tried to ring them. Often, when calling 
a business, a call may be routed to different departments dependent upon the account 
information input at the outset. When Mr B called Amex a third time, he input details for a 
different account. So, I can understand why that may have resulted in his call being directed 
differently. Ive seen no evidence to suggest Amex were deliberately avoiding his calls.Mr B has made it clear he doesnt agree with our investigators findings. And while I 
appreciate he will undoubtedly be disappointed; I also cant find that Amex did anything 
wrong or treated him unfairly. I want to reassure Mr B I have considered everything hes 
said. But I wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman