DRN-4121053
The complaint
Mr G complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase caused him to go 
overdrawn and placed a block on his account.  
What happened
Mr G says that in May 2022 he withdrew £50 in cash from his Chase account. A few hours 
later, he found that his account had gone into an unarranged overdraft and he was unable to 
use his account until he brought it into credit. Mr G raised a complaint with Chase as he was 
unhappy that they allowed him to withdraw cash, knowing it would take him overdrawn. 
In addition to this, around ten days later, Mr G saw multiple transactions leaving his account 
for £10.99, going to one company Ill call M. He contacted Chase via the online chat 
function on the evening of 19 May and did not receive a resolution until the early hours of the 
21 May. He says he tried to make a few payments, but these were declined. 
Chase issued a final response in which it explained the unauthorised overdraft was caused 
by a pending transaction leaving the account following his cash withdrawal. And that the first 
9 transactions to M were declined by M and the 10th transaction was declined by Chase for 
security reasons. Mr G referred the complaint to our service as he was not satisfied with 
Chases response. 
Our Adjudicator looked into the complaint and explained that there was a delay in Chase 
being made aware of a debit card transaction on his account. Because of this delay, the 
debit card transaction left the account after Mr G had withdrawn £50 in cash, which took the 
account into an unarranged overdraft. As this delay did not originate with Chase, they did not 
agree that Chase were at fault.
In relation to the transactions to M, the Adjudicator explained that the issue was caused by 
M carrying out a soft check but none of the amounts actually debited the account. They also 
confirmed there was no block placed on the account. They did feel that there had been 
delays in Chase responding to Mr G and that they had given him incorrect information about 
the account being blocked. They recommended £50 compensation in light of this. 
Chase did not respond to the Adjudicators view. Mr G responded and provided a screenshot 
which he felt showed the pending card transaction left his account at the time of the 
purchase. He also provided evidence which he felt showed the payments to M did leave his 
account and he says these were only refunded after he contacted M. He also pointed to the 
live chat with Chase in which the advisor told him a fraud block had been paced on the 
account. Because of this, he did not feel the £50 was reasonable.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that the £50 compensation recommended is a fair resolution to the 
complaint. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Ive firstly focused on the complaint about the unauthorised overdraft. Chase has explained 
that there was a known issue at the time with the processing system that is ran by a third-
party company. This caused a delay in some payments being processed, and in Mr Gs case 
one such payment was authorised almost two and a half hours before it was actually 
processed and the available balance on Mr Gs account was updated. Because of this, the 
balance updated after Mr G had withdrawn cash from the account, which took it into the 
unarranged overdraft.
The terms and conditions of the account state: When you make a debit card payment, we'll 
take the money from your account after we receive confirmation of the payment from 
Mastercard. On balance, Im satisfied this is what happened in Mr Gs case, however the 
confirmation was delayed. 
I have seen no reason to doubt what Chase has said about how the delay occurred and I 
think its more likely this was not due to an error by Chase. Thankfully, Mr G was not 
financially disadvantaged in the sense that he did not incur any overdraft fees or charges as 
a result of the unauthorised overdraft. Considering all of the above, I dont direct Chase to 
take any steps to remedy this part of the complaint.
Ive gone on to consider the transactions to M. There is a disagreement over what happened 
here. Chase now says that they did not place a fraud block on the account and any declined 
payments were down to the merchants needing to carry out a soft check on the payments. 
They say that the statements for Mr Gs account show that none of the £10.99 payments 
actually debited the account as they dont appear on it at all. And that while an advisor in the 
chat feature said a fraud check had occurred on the account, this was likely due to them 
reading a notice on the account incorrectly.
Mr G has provided a screenshot of his Chase app which appears to show two payments of 
£10.99 leaving his account. And he has pointed to the fact that the advisor told him a fraud 
check had occurred on his account which declined later payments. 
Where theres a disagreement over what happened, I have to consider all the evidence 
available to me to decide what I think is more likely to have happened in the circumstances. 
Ive looked at the statements for Mr Gs account, and I can see there are no payments for 
£10.99 to M during the period in question, nor are there refunds from M for £10.99. However, 
I can see other examples of Mr G receiving refunds from merchants, and these do appear on 
his statements. Considering this, I think its more likely the funds did not actually debit the 
balance of his account at the time.
Ive considered if I think its more likely a block was placed on the account. Looking at the 
account activity, I can see there were a number of transactions on 19 and 20 May 2022. If a 
block had been placed on the account, it would have been applied in the evening of 19 May 
and removed in the early hours of 21 May. However, on Mr Gs statements it appears there 
were a number of transactions on 20 May which eventually ran the balance down to nil. 
Looking at this, I think its unlikely the account did have a block placed on it considering 
transactions were still occurring the following day. However, even if it were the case that the 
transactions actually occurred on 19 May and were not posted on the statement until the 
following day, which is possible, as the balance had been run down to nil I dont think Mr G 
was disadvantaged had a block been applied. As there were no funds that he was missing out on accessing.
Even if I were to agree that a fraud block had been placed on the account, as this would be 
in the interest of protecting Mr Gs account, and it would be in response to a series of 
transactions attempted on the account, I think it would have been reasonable. So, I would 
not have agreed it was an error made by Chase. Considering all of this, I dont agree there 
has been an error made by Chase in relation of the transactions to M or Mr Gs access to his 
account. 
I do acknowledge that Mr G was given incorrect advice by the advisor on the chat in relation 
to the payments to M. And that it took some time for Chase to provide this incorrect 
response. With this in mind, I think the recommendation of £50 compensation is fair in the 
circumstances. So, I uphold this complaint in part.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase to 
pay Mr G £50 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman