DRN-3563877
The complaint
Ms R complains about a decision by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) not to uphold a claim she made to them under section 75
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view of this complaint but not the redress that the investigator
proposed. I know that will disappoint BPF so please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or in whole, with a fixed
sum loan it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This
section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower
under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the
supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
I think there has been a breach of contract here as Im persuaded all the goods Ms R
ordered havent been delivered. I say that because:
I think its unlikely Ms R would contact the administrators for the supplier of her
furniture if she had been in receipt of the goods, and I also think it unlikely she would
escalate her complaint to this service if the goods she was claiming for were already
in her possession.
The administrator explained to us that it was very likely Ms R didnt receive her
goods. They explained that other customers had similar problems and that the
supplier was running behind on orders when it went into administration.
Whilst I understand BPF would like proof the items werent delivered I dont think its
possible for Ms R to prove non-delivery. In those circumstances, Id expect BPF to be
able to prove delivery.
BPF are concerned that Ms R didnt originally complain about some items shes now saying
are missing from the order. BPF say that Ms R raised her initial claim with them in May 2019
and shes explained that at that time she was still expecting delivery of some items that were
bespoke. I think thats a plausible argument and its supported by the letter she was sent by
the administrators in February 2020 when they said the supplier had intended to fulfil all
orders but that it was now no longer possible to do so.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested BPF should provide a refund for all the items Ms R has not
received less anything theyve already refunded. But as Ms R paid for the goods though a
fixed sum loan which attracted interest, that would leave her still having to pay interest on
the goods she hadnt received.
So, instead, BPF should calculate how much, including interest, Ms R paid towards her
agreement for the goods she didnt receive and refund that amount to her.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to calculate how much, including interest, Ms R paid
towards her agreement for the goods she didnt receive and refund that amount to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R didnt have any additional information she wanted to add and BPF accepted my 
decision, setting out the calculation of the refund they would provide. They explained that the 
agreement was interest free and that there would therefore be no need to refund any 
interest.
Putting things right
As both parties accepted my provisional decision that now becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited to calculate how much, including interest, Ms R paid towards her 
agreement for the goods she didnt receive and refund that amount to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman