DRN-4452823
The complaint
Mr C complains that Sainsbury's Bank plc didnt fairly deal with a claim he made under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 ("Section 75").
What happened
In October 2021 Mr C used his credit card to pay, in part, for a bathroom. The contract was 
made with the bathroom supplier who I will call M, to both supply and install the goods. Mr C 
arranged for the goods to be delivered on 1 April 2022 with work to commence on 4 April. Mr 
C said no goods were delivered and one workman arrived on 4 April but left without doing 
anything. He brought a complaint to M and cancelled the job. M refunded his money, making 
various deductions. Mr C then brought the issue to Sainsburys and made a Section 75 
claim.
In its final response Sainsburys said M had provided a reasonable calculation of incurred 
losses for the goods and services until the point of cancellation. It also said that M had 
outlined that it wasnt able to start the works on the date agreed due to health and safety 
concerns. M had said a deep cleaning of the bathroom was recommended before works 
could commence. Mr C wasnt satisfied and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator recommended partially upholding the complaint, refunding Mr C the £450 the 
merchant charged for delivery/collection/restocking of goods and the £250 charged for the 
fitters daily rate because it was foreseeable that he would not be able to carry out the work 
due to the state of the bathroom. They also recommended Sainsburys pay Mr C £100 due 
to the inconvenience caused by the delays in this matter.
Mr C didnt agree. He believed Sainsburys should refund him the full amount. Sainsburys 
disagreed and relied on the terms and conditions of Mr Cs contract with M. So the complaint 
came to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 October 2023. I said:
Mr C paid M using his Sainsburys credit card and because of this he might have the 
protection provided by Section 75. Before I go any further, I think its important to set 
out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial services provider Im 
not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under Section 75. 
Rather in deciding whats the fair way to resolve Mr Cs complaint I must take 
relevant law into account. Section 75 is relevant law. But that doesnt mean Im 
obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example a court might reach if Mr C 
pursued a claim in court. Our service is an alternative to the courts. The general 
effect of Section 75 is that if Mr C has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against M he can also bring that claim against Sainsburys provided certain 
conditions are met.
When considering whether Sainsbury's has treated Mr C fairly it's also relevant for 
me to consider the contract Mr C signed. And here the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA) is relevant law. Ive seen a copy of this contract. The copy I have is blurry and 
while I can see that Mr C has signed it, its not clear if he was given the opportunity to 
sufficiently review the terms and conditions at the time. Nor can I tell if he signed 
accepting those terms and conditions. Sainsburys has relied on these terms and 
conditions in its decision not to upholdMr Cs complaint.
Mr C has said that the goods were scheduled to be delivered on 1 April and they did 
not arrive. Sainsbury's referred to section 5.2 of the terms and conditions which 
states that failure to deliver goods on the agreed date does not constitute a breach of 
contract. It also referred to 5.1 which stated the delivery date given was not a 
definitive guarantee. In its response to Sainsbury's M said the goods had been 
delivered. But they hadn't, nor were they ever, even prior to or on the morning the 
workman arrived. This seems unusual to me especially given that this was a 
bathroom so the new fittings would need to be installed very quickly after the old 
fittings were removed. So I do consider it possible that something went wrong with 
the order or delivery.
Sainsbury's also said work did not commence on the agreed day because the 
premises wasn't in a safe condition for the works to be carried out. There was black 
mould present. It said it was for Mr C to ensure the premises was in a safe condition 
not for the surveyor or the sales representative to raise this issue. It relied on the 
following terms: 
9. Providing Works
9.1 Following the technical survey we carry out we may need to make 
alterations. 9.5 We will need certain facilities in order to carry out the works. 
You must ensure: (a) that the existing hot and cold water systems are 
sufficient in capacity and pressure to provide a suitable level of water without 
modification. You are advised to obtain a full survey of the water system to 
ensure this is the case before the works begin if in any doubt. Where any 
modification is required we will provide a quotation for carrying out such 
works but we are not automatically responsible for undertaking this work and 
shall not be responsible for the costs;
(b) if the goods ordered by you require the supply of electricity that the 
existing supply of electricity and other electrical requirements are safe and 
suitable for the works required without modification. You are advised to obtain 
an electrical survey of the premises to ensure this is the case before the 
works begin if in any doubt.
(c) that the structure and condition of the premises are suitable. You are 
advised to obtain a full survey of the premises before the works begin if in any 
doubt. The survey we conduct as part of the works is not intended for the 
purpose of identifying any such problems as those set out above.
Ive thought about what the CRA says about contract terms. The law recognises that 
a business may not be able to rely on terms which are unfair, an unfair term (within 
the meaning of the CRA) is not binding on the consumer. It is not for me to say 
whether a contract term is unfair, that is for a court to decide. Rather, as I mentioned 
above, I must determine what I consider to be a fair resolution of Mr Cs complaint.
Section 62 (4) of the CRA says a term is unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good 
faith, it causes a significant imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations under the 
contract to the detriment of the consumer. And under section 68 (1) a trader must 
ensure that a written term of a consumer contract, or a consumer notice in writing, is 
transparent. Transparency means the term must be understandable to the consumer.From his contract Mr C is required to ensure the structure and condition of the 
premises are suitable. But the contract does not specify what it means by suitable, 
structure or condition. Unlike 9.5 (a) and 9.5 (b) which are quite specific in relation 
to water and electricity and Mr C's responsibility with regards to them, by contrast 9.5 
(c) is not specific at all. It's not clear what M refers to when it says premises must be 
suitable. This can be interpreted very broadly. It doesnt give any examples, nor does 
it define or identify the scope and size of any problems that would render the 
premises unsuitable or unsafe. And I believe that because 9.5 (c) is not specific 
enough it isn't transparent, and it would be difficult for a reasonable person to 
understand what standard deems a premises suitable. Mr C said he was visited by 
salesmen on 26 October who measured the bathroom and a technical surveyor on 
16 November who carried out a technical survey. The terms go on to say the survey 
it conducted as part of the works is not intended for the purpose of identifying any 
such problems as those set out in section 9. M has not explained to Sainsbury's or 
this service what the technical survey does include. But I think it reasonable that a 
consumer might conclude that a technical survey may include reference to the 
premises being suitable for the installation.
Mr C said the workman arrived in the morning but stayed less than 15 minutes and 
left. He was told this was a health and safety matter because the bathroom had 
visible black mould. After the investigator sent their view Sainsbury's received photos 
of Mr C's bathroom from M. Having looked at these myself I can see the mould 
appears throughout the bathroom, although I cant say whether this would be suitable 
or not for a workman. And I find it striking that even if health and safety issues 
relating to black mould were not part of the technical survey that Mr C wasnt alerted 
to the need to have the bathroom assessed for safety by the salesman or the 
surveyor by M itself following these two visits. There is no evidence that the terms 
and conditions were explained to Mr C including in regard to health and safety. It 
seems to me that both the salesman and the surveyor are more likely to know what 
suitable condition the premises should be in than Mr C.
I consider 9.5 (c) to be open to wide interpretation and that M would be able to 
determine what premises is suitable after Mr C signed the contract. In addition 
because the copy of the contract Mr C signed is blurry it's not clear to me that he 
accepted the terms. But irrespective of this I'm persuaded 9.5 (c) would cause a 
significant imbalance to the detriment of Mr C. And I think it fair and reasonable this 
contract term is struck out.
Having been persuaded that 9.5 (c) should be struck out and not binding on Mr C I 
must now determine whether Sainsburys acted fairly in regard to Mr Cs Section 75 
complaint without this term. M didnt deliver any goods prior to or on the day of fitting. 
As I mentioned above I think this is odd given the nature of the job and the 
importance of Mr C having a working bathroom. It is possible they would or could 
have been delivered later in the day. But the workman left after 15 minutes and failed 
to install the bathroom on the agreed date. Without being able to rely on 9.5 (c) and 
subject to any further information I might receive Im persuaded that failure to deliver 
and install the goods on the date agreed with Mr C is likely a breach of contract.
Sainsburys relies on the cancellation terms in the contract to deduct costs from Mr 
Cs refund. Im persuaded there was likely a breach of contract and as Mr C has 
indicated his desire to end the contract by cancelling it, I think it fair and reasonable 
he should be refunded in full. In addition Mr C has been inconvenienced by this 
situation and I also consider it fair that Sainsburys pay him £100 in compensation.
Mr C accepted my provisional decision. Sainsburys did not and provided further comments to which I have responded. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I've concluded that my provisional decision still stands. Sainsburys has 
provided a detailed response to my provisional decision and I have responded to it below 
under the headings it used in its reply.
Fairness
Sainsbury's said for me to come to a fair resolution to this complaint I should consider the 
content of the terms and conditions in the context of the services provided under these terms 
and conditions. It believed that clause 9.5 (c) to be fair and transparent considering the 
context. It said the consumer would presumably have a better understanding of the premises 
compared to the merchant so it would be unreasonable to expect the merchant to be aware 
of the specific circumstances of each customer's premises. It said the clause does not 
relieve the merchant of all its duties and create a substantial imbalance. Instead it merely 
confined its responsibility to the extent of its services and expertise, which it believed is fair. 
While I accept that Mr C would have an understanding of his premises I still consider the 
term to be very broad in context with the service that the merchant provides. The merchant 
is a specialist in providing mobility bathrooms for consumers who need additional help and I 
think a reasonable expectation would be that the condition of the bathroom itself would be 
within its expertise. 
Technical survey
Sainsbury's said mould can start growing on a damp surface within 24 hours and it had no 
evidence to confirm the condition of the mould during earlier visits including the technical 
survey visit. It said it would have been unreasonable to expect the merchant to anticipate 
that Mr C would let the mould grow to this extent and it didn't believe the merchant could 
have anticipated there would be mould that causes a health hazard by the time of the 
installation.
The only evidence provided of the mould is a collection of photos taken presumably at the 
time of the proposed installation. Neither the merchant nor Sainsbury's has provided any 
evidence to support the condition of the bathroom at the time of the technical survey. Nor 
has the technical survey been provided as evidence. So it's not possible to establish the 
condition of the bathroom when it was inspected. 
To try to establish what was included in the technical survey, in the absence of information 
from M, I visited the its website. The web page entitled Fast Expert Installation says:
Technical survey
Once you are happy to proceed, you will be assigned a personal installation manager 
who will look after you for the duration of the project.
The first thing we do is do a full technical survey to check your plumbing, water 
pressure, electrics and all the necessary things to make sure your installation goes 
smoothly.
Your surveyor will also advise how long your installation will take.
This implies that the technical survey is not a one-off event as it said the personal installation manager will look after the customer for the duration of the project. On Mr C's contract 
agreement under "description of work to be carried out" it says "project manager". The 
website says this manager checks all the necessary things to make sure the installation 
goes smoothly. While I accept that this information is current on the website and may not 
have been on the website at the time Mr C bought his bathroom I do consider it likely that 
this was the service offered at the time by the project manager noted on the contract 
agreement. As such I'm persuaded a personal installation manager ought to have been 
aware or ought reasonably to have been aware of the condition of Mr C's bathroom prior to 
the installation date.
Legibility of agreement
Sainsbury's said the terms and conditions in dispute are legible and all other documents in 
the file seem to be legible except for the "contract agreement". It noted that the contract 
agreement had been scanned against a dark backdrop leading it to suspect that the legibility 
issues with the contract agreement could merely be due to a scanning mishap. I'm not 
disputing Sainsbury's comments and most of the text on the contract agreement is legible, 
nevertheless I'm still not able to see where it says that Mr C had read and understood the 
terms and conditions.
Cancellation
Sainsbury said that it was important to note that despite the condition of the bathroom the 
merchant did not cancel the contract. It said as per the terms and conditions there was no 
requirement for the merchant to complete the installation on that date as delays did not form 
a breach of contract. It said all Mr C was required to do was have the mould cleaned and the 
merchant was willing to return at another date and complete the work. Sainsbury's said it 
was Mr C who ended the contract and therefore it seems unfair to hold the merchant liable 
for the costs it incurred prior to the cancellation, since Mr C had agreed to cover these by 
signing the contract agreement.
Im not disputing that Mr C cancelled the contract, but Im persuaded he did so because he 
believed the merchant had breached the terms. His understanding was that the products 
would be delivered prior to installation, and they still hadnt been delivered when the 
workman arrived. As I said in my provisional decision this seems unusual to me. On the 
website under Fast Expert Installation it says:
Project managed installation
Well arrange all new bathroom products to be delivered ready for the day your 
installation starts. We manage all members of the qualified installation team, 
including plumbers, electricians, and builders where required.
Your personal installation manager will stay in contact with you throughout this 
process to make sure you are happy as the job progresses.
When the installation is complete, we will make sure your old bathroom and any 
rubbish remaining are collected and removed from your property, leaving nothing at 
all for you to do, apart from enjoying your new safer bathroom!
Ive seen no evidence that Mr Cs project manager, if he had one as noted he should have 
on the contract agreement, stayed in contact with him during the process. He wasnt 
informed that the products wouldnt be delivered on the delivery date and the new bathroom 
products were not delivered ready for the day your installation starts. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision the Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant here. In section 49 it says
Service to be performed with reasonable care and skill
(1) Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the 
trader must perform the service with reasonable care and skill.
As Ive mentioned previously its not my role to determine, in this instance, whether the 
service was performed with reasonable care and skill. Its to determine if Sainsburys has 
acted fairly. But I think it's sensible for me to question whether the merchant has performed 
the service with reasonable care and skill. And it doesnt appear to have done so.
Health and safety
Sainsbury's said it's not reasonable to expect an individual to work in the conditions 
displayed in the photographs provided. It said the photographs clearly showed there is black 
mould growing on the walls. It quoted NHS guidance on this. I'm not disputing Sainsbury's 
position regarding an individual's expectations for work conditions. Nor am I disputing that 
there was considerable mould present in the bathroom. But it's not for me to determine the 
level of risk to health. Sainsbury's said the decline of the condition of Mr C's bathroom could 
not have been anticipated by the merchant. I don't agree.
No evidence has been provided about what the technical survey established including 
whether all the necessary things to make sure your installation goes smoothly were 
completed by the project manager. There is no evidence of what the condition of the 
bathroom was at the time of the survey. There appears to be no communication from the 
merchant or project manager between when the survey was conducted and when the goods 
were supposed to be delivered. The products weren't delivered prior to or on the day of the 
installation. In summary I'm not persuaded that the service to Mr C was performed with 
reasonable care and skill. 
Putting things right
I don't think Sainsbury's has responded to Mr C's complaint reasonably or fairly so to put 
things right Sainsburys Bank Plc must:
Refund the admin fee of £250 
Refund the cost of the technical survey of £300 
Refund the delivery/collection/restocking fee of £450. 
Refund the fitter wasted day cost of £250 
Pay Mr C £100 in compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Sainsburys Bank Plc must put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman