DRN-4158408
The complaint
Mr D says Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) sold him an 
unsuitable personal pension because he couldve made contributions to his then employers 
existing Group Personal Pension (GPP) instead. He says hes suffered financial detriment as 
a result.
Mr D is represented by TTP Financial Compensation.
What happened
Mr D was a chartered surveyor. He joined his employers GPP scheme in 1992. At the point 
of the events complained about, he was 28 years old and earning an annual salary of around 
£33,000. He was making contributions to his pension of 3% of his salary. And his employer 
was making a contribution of 5%.
In November 1996 Mr D had a financial review with a predecessor firm of Sun Life. This 
identified a number of areas where there were shortfalls in his financial provisions. One of 
the recommendations made concerned his pension arrangements. The adviser said:
Currently in a GPP with employer [Z]. I recommend that [Mr D] contributes on top of this to 
increase his benefits in retirement.
Mr D accepted this advice and applied to establish a personal pension. This was set-up in 
November 1996 and he made net monthly contributions of £50. This was invested in funds 
according to his assessed attitude to risk. Mr D received further advice from the same firm in 
1998. This time he agreed to increase the net monthly contributions to his plan by £30. And 
Mr D switched his pension to Standard Life in 2005.
On 13 October 2021 Mr Ds representative raised concerns with Sun Life on his behalf about 
several products hed taken out with it in the past. One of these was his personal pension. It 
summarised his complaint about that in the following terms:
The client was a member of a Group Personal Pension which offered preferential terms 
through his employer, but there is no evidence that the adviser discussed this with the client, 
and therefore no justification for the recommendation of a pension with higher charges.
Sun Life responded to Mr D on 20 September 2022. It rejected his pension complaint and 
said:
this type of personal pension was available to people who wanted to increase their 
benefits in retirement. Our consultant simply had to provide you with a plan that suited your 
needs at the time, which this personal pension plan did. Overall, we feel that this plan was 
appropriate for your circumstances at the time, as part of your pension provision.
Mr D didnt agree with Sun Lifes response and brought his case to this Service. An 
Investigator reviewed the evidence and concluded Sun Life hadnt done anything 
significantly wrong. 
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Ds complaint has been 
passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events complained about happened over twenty six years ago. Where theres conflicting 
information about these and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do 
have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
While Im mindful the approach taken by firms and the regulations governing them have 
evolved considerably over the last quarter of a century, companies like Sun Life still had to 
adhere to the relevant industry codes and standards.
As the Investigator established, the advice relevant to this case was provided by Sun Life in 
1996 and 1998. At this time, it was regulated by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA). 
Sun Life was a previous member of the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory 
Organisation (LAUTRO). And when the PIA took responsibility for these firms in 1994, it 
adopted the LAUTRO rules.
The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2. This required advisers to 
exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 6 of the Code 
of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they should not:
- Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
- Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the 
consumers best interests and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Mr D says Sun Life shouldve advised him to talk to his employer before taking out his new 
pension plan in 1996 because this wouldve been more beneficial to him. I agree that given 
the regulatory requirements at the time Sun Life should have made him aware this was an 
option.
Its rare that this Service would say recommending making further provision for an income in 
retirement was unsuitable. And given Mr Ds age and circumstances the advice was 
appropriate. But in meeting its obligations to him, Sun Life had to adhere to the regulatory 
requirements including dealing fairly with investors. 
Sun Life has provided documents from the point of sale. Information gathered in 1996 shows 
that it was aware Mr D was a member of a GPP. It understood the level of contributions 
being made by both him and his employer. And it recorded he wasnt paying the most he 
couldve into that scheme.So, I think its more likely than not a conversation between Sun Life and Mr D about his 
employers scheme took place. And given it was noted he wasnt paying the maximum he 
couldve into his GPP, its likely he was aware of the possibility of doing so.
In responding to the Investigators view, Mr Ds representative noted:
To use your quote, we believe that the firm did not clearly disclose all relevant 
consequences and disadvantages of contributing to a Lincoln pension rather than his 
employers scheme, and therefore did not advise with due skill, care and diligence.
The records from 1996 arent as detailed as Id like, so its not possible to be certain what 
was discussed between the parties during the sales process. However, in this case we do 
have a more detailed record from the 1998 sale when Mr D decided to increase the 
contributions being made to his personal pension. 
The advisers recommendation at this time is recorded in the following terms:
you are aware that you are in a group personal pension today offered at preferential 
terms through [Z], in which the company contributes 5% of your pensionable earnings and 
you contribute 3%. You could pay further into this scheme and you have investigated this 
option, but despite the preferential charging structure still wish to proceed through Lincoln
I dont know why Mr D decided not to make further contributions to his GPP instead of taking 
out a personal pension and then increasing his monthly premiums on that. It mayve been 
because the personal pension offered a wider range of funds, assets and investment 
strategies. Or he mayve considered it more flexible and a better fit for his circumstances.
I agree with the Investigator when he found Mr Ds circumstances were broadly the same in 
1996 and 1998 and so its reasonable to assume even if hed talked to his employers in 1996 
the outcome would have been the same as it was in 1998 and he would have gone ahead 
with the pension with Sun Life.
Had there been a significant problem with the sale in 1996 Mr D wouldve raised this in 1998, 
when its more likely than not he was made aware of the preferential terms of his employers 
GPP. Instead he chose to increase his contributions to his personal pension plan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman