DRN-3345536
The complaint
Ms B has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Ms B complained to HSBC following it cancelling her debit card and making it difficult to 
withdraw her benefit money. She says she could not afford to repay her overdraft due to the 
charges HSBC applied to her account. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint, it says no bank 
error was made and it had already refunded Ms B a significant amount in charges. 
Ms Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that HSBC ought 
to have realised that Ms B was experiencing financial difficulty by 23 March 2015 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Despite 
extra time given to respond HSBC hasnt provided any further response so the case was 
passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Ms Bs 
overdraft from 23 March 2015. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Ms B was in no 
position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Ms B was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time. HSBCs own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So I think that Ms Bs overdraft usage should have prompted HSBC to have realised that Ms 
B wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Ms Bs overdraft usage and instead continued charging 
in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Ms B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt 
treat Ms B fairly and she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Bs complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Buying back Ms Bs debt (sold to a third party) or inform the third party company 
to take into account the following adjustments.
Reworking Ms Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 23 March 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Ms B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Bs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft on 23 March 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Ms Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman