DRN-2652892
The complaint
Mr E complains that Society of Lloyd's declined part of his claim for subsidence on his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E had a home insurance policy with Lloyds. In 2019 he made a claim for subsidence 
after noticing cracks in the property and extension. 
Lloyds sent a contractor to inspect the damage. Subsequently it accepted a claim for 
damage to the front of the property. However it declined the claim for damage to the 
extension. 
It said the extension had been built on clay soil that overlays a thick bed of peat. It said that 
the cracks had therefore been caused by settlement rather than subsidence and the 
extension wasnt built sufficiently to prevent this. It also said that due to evidence that the 
cracks had previously been repaired, it thought the damage predated the inception of the 
policy in 2017. It said for these reasons it was excluded from cover under the policy. 
Mr E didnt think this was fair. He instructed his own expert to compile a report. The report 
agreed that the extension was built on peat but said further investigations would be required 
to determine the cause of the cracks. Mr E provided the report to Lloyds and made a 
complaint. 
Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint. It maintained its reason for the declinature. Mr E brought 
his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that both reports agreed the extension 
was built on a layer of peat. And that some settlement had occurred. She said she was 
satisfied that Lloyds were fair to decline the claim, as she agreed the movement was most 
likely caused by settlement rather than subsidence.
Mr E didnt agree. He said he didnt think Lloyds had provided enough evidence to show 
what the cause of the damage was. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has relied on three different policy exclusions to decline Mr Es claim. One due to the 
damage pre-dating the inception of the policy. Another due to defective workmanship as it 
feels the extension wasnt suitably built for the ground it was on. And finally, as it says the 
damage is settlement rather than subsidence. 
When an insurance claim is made it is for the insured (so in this case Mr E) to prove there is 
damaged caused by something that is insured under the policy. It is then for the insurer to 
either accept the claim or prove an exclusion applies. 
In this case Lloyds has said a number of exclusions apply  however to fairly decline a claim 
it only needs to prove one. So when assessing this complaint, if I am satisfied Lloyds has 
fairly applied one of the exclusions it has listed, then I will conclude that it was fair for it to 
decline Mr Es claim.
I have started by considering whether the damage to the extension was caused by 
settlement and not subsidence. The policy provides cover for the peril subsidence, and 
specifically excludes damage caused by settlement. So in order to say Lloyds has acted 
fairly by declining the claim on this basis, I need to be satisfied that it has done enough to 
show that the damage is most likely caused by settlement rather than subsidence.   
To do this, its first important to differentiate between subsidence and settlement. Both 
involve land movement that leads to damage to a property. However subsidence is caused 
by the land itself moving downwards, for a variety of reasons, which leads to the foundations 
of the building moving. Whereas settlement is caused by the weight of the building itself  
causing the land beneath it to move. 
Mr E and Lloyds have both provided expert reports. So Ive considered what each one says. 
The report provided by Lloyds details bore holes that the contractor dug near the rear 
extension. These showed that the foundations were built onto clay subsoil. However when 
dug deeper it showed a thick layer of peat beneath this. The report concludes that due to the 
make up of the ground beneath the structure, settlement would occur due to the weight of 
the building on unstable ground. 
The report provided by Mr E doesnt dispute the existence of peat beneath the foundations. 
However it comments that not enough has been done to conclude that settlement has taken 
place because of the peat. It says further investigations would need to be carried out in order 
to be sure. So while the report is detailed, it doesnt offer any conclusions on how the 
damage has been caused.
Based on these reports I think Lloyds has acted fairly by declining Mr Es claim based on the 
damage being caused by settlement. While neither report is completely conclusive, they both 
agree that the land the extension is built on is an unstable make up. And the report from 
Lloyds concludes that this makes settlement likely. Further, the report explains that 
settlement usually happens within ten years of a structure being built. And the damage was 
discovered five years after the extension was built. 
And while Mr Es report suggests the damage may be caused by subsidence  it says in 
order to decide this, further investigations would be needed. And Ive not seen anything to 
show that these have been carried out.  
Based on the evidence I think Lloyds has acted reasonably in declining Mr Es claim. Its own 
report concludes the damage is likely caused by settlement and Ive seen no evidence to 
prove otherwise. Should Mr E decide to instruct further investigative work, as suggested in 
his report, then I would expect Lloyds to review its decision based on any findings from this 
work. But in the absence of this, I dont think Lloyds has acted unreasonably. 
As Im satisfied Lloyds has acted fairly by declining Mr Es claim based on the exclusion for 
settlement, I wont consider any of the further exclusions it has relied on.    
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman