DRN-3399886
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct gave them incorrect 
information about the solicitors they could use when applying for a mortgage to buy a 
property. They ask for an apology and compensation for their legal costs and stress.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R applied to first direct for a mortgage in late 2020. Mr R says he told first direct 
which solicitors he intended to use. He says he checked several times they were on first 
directs panel and that first direct allows dual representation. 
Mr R says he did a final check about the solicitors in early March 2021, a short time before 
the planned completion date. first direct said this was when it first became aware that Mr and 
Mrs R had instructed a solicitor (solicitor A) that wasnt on its panel. In such circumstances, 
first direct says it requires separate representation by its own solicitor. It wasnt acceptable to 
first direct to be represented by the firm of solicitors (solicitor B) which was on its panel and 
had also been appointed by Mr and Mrs R. 
first direct gave Mr R options and he chose to proceed on the basis that first direct would 
instruct its own solicitors. Mr R says first direct was told in late 2020 which solicitors they 
were using and should have told them earlier if this was a problem. He says being told so 
late in the process meant they incurred additional costs and stress.
Our investigator said Mr and Mrs R hadnt told first direct theyd instructed solicitor A until 
8 March 2021. Our investigator said once first direct was aware that Mr and Mrs R had 
instructed a solicitor that wasnt on its panel it acted promptly to instruct its own solicitors on 
12 March 2021.
Mr R said he had told first direct which solicitors they were using in late 2020, and there 
were phone calls that first direct hadnt provided recordings for. He said first direct made 
errors after 8 March 2021 and if he hadnt chased first direct this would have been a bigger 
issue. Mr R said first direct hadnt responded properly to his complaint and its failure to 
provide him with information to deal with his complaint wasnt satisfactory. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr R says he had a call with first direct on 1 October 2020 when first direct told him they 
could use their preferred conveyancer and a solicitor on its panel. He says he checked on 
this call that solicitor B was on first directs panel. Mr R says this was confirmed several 
times. First direct cant find a recording of this call. But it did provide recordings of calls in 
November and December 2020.
first directs records show it received an online application from Mr R in early October 2020. 
first direct recorded that Mr and Mrs Rs solicitors were solicitor B. It says it confirmed to 
Mr R that Solicitor B was on its panel.
Mr R discussed solicitors with first direct on 18 November 2020. He gave details of 
solicitor A. first direct said solicitor A wasnt on its panel and if he used solicitor A it would 
need separate representation. Mr R said solicitor A worked with solicitor B. First direct 
looked up solicitor B and confirmed it was on its panel. 
Mr R had a call with first directs mortgage adviser on 3 December 2020. The adviser asked 
if theyd instructed solicitors and Mr R said theyd instructed solicitor B. He gave the 
mortgage adviser contact details for solicitor B. He didnt mention solicitor A or say they were 
being separately represented or wanted dual representation. 
Solicitor B was on first directs panel. Solicitor B could have acted for Mr and Mrs R and first 
direct. This is the basis on which many similar applications would proceed. first directs 
records suggest it thought solicitor B was acting for both parties here. I appreciate that Mr R 
had asked about solicitor A on a previous call, but based on the available evidence I dont 
think he told first direct that hed instructed solicitor A to act for him and Mrs R until March 
2021.  
It seems Mr R thought that they could appoint solicitor B (who worked with solicitor A) to 
represent first direct. This wasnt acceptable to first direct. It says where it is separately 
represented it instructs its own solicitor. First direct told Mr R this on 10 March 2021.
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs R didnt know this earlier in the process. But I dont think first 
direct gave Mr R incorrect information or misled them. It gave Mr R correct information about 
which solicitors were on its panel and that it would need separate representation if Mr and 
Mrs R instructed a non-panel solicitor. Based on the available evidence, I dont think first 
direct was aware that Mr and Mrs R had instructed solicitor A until 8 March 2021.
Mr R says he called for a final check on 8 March 2021. At this point, first direct said he 
needed to send a query by email about the solicitors, which he did. Mr R chased this up on 
10 March 2021. first direct said Mr and Mrs R could use solicitor B, who could also act for 
first direct. Or if they wanted to continue with solicitor A first direct would instruct its own 
solicitor. It explained the cost and that it couldnt guarantee meeting Mr and Mrs Rs planned 
completion date.
Mr R said theyd proceed on the basis that first direct would instruct its own solicitor at a cost 
of £330. He says when he called on 11 March 2021, he found out that this had been 
recorded incorrectly and hadnt been actioned, which delayed matters by a day. 
Mr R says they planned to complete their purchase on 19 March 2021. I can understand how 
stressful it was to discover new solicitors needed to be instructed such a short time before 
this. But I think first direct responded promptly when it was made aware of what had 
happened. While there could have been a delay if Mr R hadnt called on 11 March 2021 to 
check that matters were progressing, fortunately this didnt happen.  
first direct confirmed on 12 March 2021 it had instructed a solicitor. I think it acted promptly 
in the circumstances. 
Mr R says first direct didnt respond promptly or appropriately to their complaint. I should say that complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, which means it isnt something we can 
always look into. While I can look into how a complaint was dealt with if it delayed sorting out 
the underlying problem, I dont think thats the case here. I think first direct had already acted 
promptly to sort out the underlying problem  the appointment of solicitors that met its 
requirements  before the complaint was made. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman