DRN-3882328
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Skrill Limited allowed him to gamble online in a country where
online gambling is largely prohibited.
What happened
Mr R lives in Norway and has explained that gambling is heavily restricted there and only
specific licenced companies can provide gambling services to Norwegian citizens and
residents. Mr R has told us that he had a serious gambling addiction in the past which he is
now in recovery from.
Mr R had a Skrill account which provided him with an online e-wallet that he used to gamble,
and lose, significant amounts of money. Mr R has said that Skrill shouldnt have allowed him
to do this as it was against Norwegian law and also against the card scheme rules for
merchants. He has said that if Skrill hadnt provided a service that allowed him to circumvent
the restrictions in place he wouldnt have lost the money he did, so he wants Skrill to refund
all of the gambling transactions he made while his account was open.
Skrill has said that in order to use its service in Norway Mr R had to indicate whether or not
the transactions he was making were gambling related. It has said that on each occasion Mr
R ticked a box to say that the transaction wasnt gambling related and lied about what he
was using the account for. Skrill also says its terms and conditions say its up to consumers
to know what is and isnt legal within their own jurisdictions and it doesnt believe its liable
for any of Mr Rs losses. It has suggested he contact the gambling merchants directly as it
believes all liability falls with them.
Unhappy with Skrills response Mr R took his complaint to our service. I issued a provisional 
decision on Mr Rs case on 2 December 2022. In it I said that this service didnt have the 
jurisdiction to comment on whether or not Skrill broke Norwegian law by allowing Mr R to use 
its service to gamble. 
I explained that I could only consider whether or not Skrill had behaved reasonably in 
relation to how it provided services to Mr R. In this instance I found that while there were 
questions around whether or not Skrill had sufficiently robust safety measures in place to 
ensure its services were not misused, I couldnt say it had failed to put any measures in 
place at all. And it seemed Mr R had deliberately circumvented the measures that were in 
place in order to gamble. 
The second point raised within the provisional decision related to the rules set out by card 
schemes and gambling. Again I found that Skrill had followed the rules as they were set out 
at the time Mr R had his account so I didnt uphold on this issue either. 
Skrill accepted my findings, but Mr R didnt.
He responded to the provisional decision providing detailed information regarding what he 
believed was evidence that the Norwegian courts had removed Skrills permissions to 
operate in Norway and stated this was a result of Skrill allowing Norwegian residents to use 
Skrill accounts to gamble while in Norway. 
These arguments were sent to Skrill to give it the opportunity to respond to them. The 
response was finally received in April 2023. 
I have considered Mr Rs response and Skrills comments on it in full and can now issue my 
final decision. For the sake of clarity and context I will repeat some of the findings from the 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for me to consider whether or not Skrill has done anything wrong it is important that I
set out what the purpose of this service is and what our jurisdictional remit allows us to
consider. We are an impartial alternative dispute resolution service. We offer a free
alternative to the courts but that does mean that there are certain restrictions in place about
what we can and cant consider. It is not possible for us to consider every complaint that is
brought to us, or indeed every aspect of the complaints we review.
In regard to Mr Rs complaint, my provisional decision explained we cant consider whether 
or not Skrill broke Norwegian law when it allowed Mr R to gamble online in Norway using his
Norwegian credit cards and Norwegian currency. This is because only a Norwegian court of 
law can definitively say whether or not its laws have been broken. Following the provisional 
decision Mr R sent a large amount of information regarding court cases he said reflect the 
fact that the Norwegian courts found Skrill was operating inappropriately in Norway. 
I have considered this point and reviewed the terms and conditions of Skrills accounts with 
this in mind. Having done so I note that clause 21.3 states:
Your Skrill Account is operated in the United Kingdom and these Terms of Use shall be 
governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of England and Wales. Any dispute 
under these Terms of Use or otherwise in connection with your Skrill Account shall be 
brought exclusively in the courts of England and Wales except where prohibited by EU law.
This means that the laws governing the relationship between Skrill and its users, in this case 
Mr R, are the laws of England and Wales, not Norwegian law. So, I can only consider 
whether or not Skrill was in contravention English law and Ive no evidence to show that was 
the case. So, I cant say this is because it did anything illegal under English law. 
It is worth noting that in its response to Mr Rs submissions Skrill has clarified that it does still 
provide services to consumers in Norway and has not been banned from doing so. It has 
said: 
 Skrill benefited from EU passporting rights to provide payment services to Norwegian 
residents. Between 2011 and 2020, Skrill Limited, authorised by the UK Financial Conduct 
Authority, operated as an electronic money institution in accordance with E-Money Directive 
(2009/110/EC) to provide cross-border payments services into Norway. Since 2020, Skrill 
has been serving EEA customers (including Norway) under Paysafe Payment Solutions 
Limited, which is an authorised electronic money institution regulated by the Central Bank of 
Ireland.In 2020, Norway implemented a new law requiring financial institutions to block financial 
transactions relating to gambling providers which were blacklisted by the Norwegian Lottery 
Authority. Paysafe has complied with the local legislation since its adoption. 
So, from what I can see the laws Skrill were obliged to adhere to were English laws and 
although Mr R believes Skrill was banned by the Norwegian courts from operating in Norway 
following the court case he cited, this doesnt seem to be the case. So, I still cant uphold his 
complaint on this point. 
It is the case that in order to use his Skrill account to gamble Mr R had to circumvent some 
safeguarding measures put in place by Skrill and so I will repeat my earlier findings relating 
to that process here.
Mr R has explained that when he went to make a payment through his Skrill account to a
gambling website he would do a number of things. Firstly, he would buy cryptocurrency
using his Norwegian credit card as this was an approved transaction and there was no block
from his credit card provider for using his card in this way. He would then immediately sell
the cryptocurrency back into Norwegian krone, which would be credited to his Skrill e-wallet
account. This system allowed Mr R to use his Norwegian credit card to gamble. He would 
then go to a gambling website to spend the money. A pop-up box would appear on the Skrill 
site asking him to confirm if he was about to complete a gambling transaction. Mr R has said 
that so long as he ticked no to this option he would be able to use the funds credited to his 
Skrill account to gamble online. He says if he ticked yes then the transaction wouldve been
blocked.
Skrill has said that Mr R was dishonest when he ticked no to the above question and that it
doesnt monitor users accounts so wouldnt have been aware that he was using his to
gamble. It has said that once Mr R contacted Skrill in 2020 to explain he was a gambling
addict and that hed been able to use his Skrill account to lose enormous amounts of money,
despite gambling being heavily restricted in his country, it closed his account. It has
explained that if Mr R had answered the gambling transaction question honestly it wouldve
added the correct merchant code to the purchase, and it wouldve been blocked. However, it
doesnt believe it should be held liable for Mr Rs losses given he was dishonest and failed to
adhere to its terms and conditions.
The question I need to consider in relation to the above is whether or not Skrill did enough to
try to stop consumers, and in particular vulnerable people with gambling addictions, from
abusing its services, the way Mr R did. This is particularly important as Skrill has previously
confirmed that the majority of its consumers use its services to access online gambling and
so, I would expect Skrill to have considered that some of its customers would be compulsive
gamblers and try to take steps to mitigate any harm they might experience using it services.
I do agree with Mr R that requiring a consumer to tick a single box to confirm whether or not 
a transaction is related to gambling, is unlikely to be sufficient to prevent those with 
compulsive spending vulnerabilities from abusing their Skill wallets and incurring 
unaffordable losses. Looking at Mr Rs statements it is very clear that he was using his Skrill 
account to gamble. The transactions are easily identifiable as the gambling merchant is 
clearly named as the acquirer receiving the funds from Mr Rs account.
Likewise, any payments in, as the result of bets won, are also easily identifiable as coming
from gambling merchants. So, I think it wouldve been apparent to anyone who reviewed Mr
Rs transaction history that he was using his account in a way that he shouldnt have been.
Therefore, the next thing I need to consider is whether or not there was any reason why
Skrill shouldve reviewed Mr Rs transactions. The types of things that are likely to prompt
Skrill to review the account manually include anything that could pose a financial risk toSkrill, so primarily disputed transactions or potentially fraudulent transactions. In addition to
this anything explicit that Mr R told Skrill about his gambling should also have impacted the
way Skrill interacted with him.
Looking at the account history it would seem that in November 2018 Mr R asked for his
account to be closed but didnt mention anything about gambling at this time. In January
2019 he contacted Skrill to request his account be reopened, which it duly was. Within four
weeks of the account being reopened Mr R had messaged Skrill about some betting
transactions he had tried to make in Norwegian krone that hadnt gone through. While he
doesnt explicitly reference them as betting transactions, the name of one the merchants he
mentions in the message is 10bet so I think it shouldve been apparent the transactions
were likely linked to online gambling. This is the only time Mr R requests help from Skrill that
is linked to gambling transactions not going through. The transactions were approved by
Skrill and completed. He does message again for statements and with enquires about
cryptocurrency transactions but none of these imply that he is experiencing any financial
problems or that they are linked to gambling transactions.
So, I need to consider whether or not its reasonable to have expected the Skrill
representative who answered Mr Rs query in February 2019 to realise that he was using his
account to gamble in a jurisdiction where gambling is heavily restricted, or in a way that 
might have been causing him harm. 
Skrill has said that its the responsibility of the consumer to ensure theyre accessing Skrills
services for legitimate and legal purposes in their countries of residence. It therefore admits
no liability for the fact that Mr R was able to circumvent the national gambling restrictions in
Norway as easily as he did via his Skrill account. Given Skrills response to this I think its
highly unlikely the staff member Mr R was communicating with in February 2019 wouldve
known he was breaking Norwegian law by using his account the way he was.
So, Im not surprised this wasnt queried with him at the time. And the reason the 
transactions didnt go through seemed to be linked to available funds, not any potential 
blocks, so there was nothing else on the account notes that indicate Skrill had flagged the 
transactions as potentially problematic for any other reason.
Therefore, while I agree with Mr R that is a massive oversight on the part of a business that
admits the majority of its customers are gamblers to not have realised the transactions were
restricted in the country of origin, I cant say that Skrill failed to pick up on any indicators that
Mr R was likely to experience financial difficulties as a result. I say this because while I agree
Skrill could have, and arguably should have put more robust measures in place to prevent its 
services from being misused in this way, Mr R did have to bypass the measures that were 
put in place to prevent him from gambling before he could use his account this way. In 
particular the fact that Mr R had to buy and sell cryptocurrency before gambling shows the 
level of thought and active avoidance of preventative measures, he went through to ensure 
his bets would be processed.
The final part of Mr Rs complaint is that Skrill has broken the rules set out by card schemes
in relation to gambling transactions. Having reviewed Mr Rs comments on this and how he
has interpreted the rules I dont agree Skrill have done anything wrong. Looking at the
scheme rules as they were published in 2018, when Mr R was using his Skrill account to
gamble, I note it says the following:
5.9.4.1
Merchant website requirements:An Electronic Merchant website and/or application must contain all of the following: 
In addition, on an Online Gambling Merchants homepage or payment page, all of 
the following:
- The statement Internet gambling may be illegal in the jurisdiction in which
you are located; if so, you are not authorised to use our payment card to
complete this transaction.
- A statement of the cardholders responsibility to know the laws concerning
online gambling in the cardholders country
So, Im satisfied that the rules also set out that the cardholder bears responsibility for
knowing whether or not a gambling transaction is restricted when they are using their card.
And this is further highlighted by the steps Mr R had to take in order to use his card to
gamble in the way he did.
I also note the card scheme rules now explicitly mention merchant codes as necessary ways
of identifying gambling transactions. Skrill has said if Mr R had ticked the box confirming the
transactions were gambling related the correct code wouldve been applied to them, which
wouldve met the requirements set out in the rules.
My final decision
Therefore, having taken everything into consideration I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint 
against Skrill Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman