DRN-3170430
The complaint
Ms M complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Ms M was given a loan by Everyday Loans as follows: 
Date taken Loan amount Number of monthly 
instalmentsMonthly  
repayment*
29 November 2017 £2,000 24 £208.52
Ms M said that she was already in financial difficulty when Everyday Loans provided 
this loan and that she struggled to meet the monthly repayments.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Ms complaint. He felt that Everyday Loans was able to 
see that Ms M already had money problems and he didnt think it looked like Ms M would 
have a reasonable level of disposable income left once her credit commitments and likely 
regular monthly outgoings were taken into account even after using this loan for some debt 
consolidation. So he felt that the loan was unaffordable for Ms M and he didnt think that 
Everyday Loans shouldve provided it. Our adjudicator set out the steps that he felt Everyday 
Loans needed to take to put things right.  
Everyday Loans disagreed with our adjudicators view. In summary, it mainly said it had 
discussed defaults seen on her credit file with Ms M and shed had her credit cards for some 
years and seemed to be managing the accounts perfectly well. It took the view that she had 
a less than average amount of unsecured debt and her bank statements showed that she 
was in control of her finances, with no evidence of bank charges or overdraft use. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. I have also taken into consideration 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. 
Id like to reassure Everyday Loans that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive 
independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator and I am upholding Ms Ms 
complaint for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain in more detail why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. And its important to keep in mind that, when working out affordability, a lender 
must take a borrower focussed approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending 
on the customer. The lending decision shouldnt only be about the business risk to the lender 
of not getting its money back. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the 
borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
Everyday Loans asked Ms M about her income and expenses, it carried out credit checks 
and looked at her bank statements. It saw a pay slip and evidence of her other regular 
monthly payments into her bank account before verifying her monthly income. It also relied 
on statistical information to assess Ms Ms likely monthly expenditure using national data 
showing typical spending for someone in similar circumstances.
Everyday Loans recorded a figure of around £1,673 net income per month and after doing its 
own background checks, an amount of £1,639 for Ms Ms reasonably likely expenditure. 
Ms M told Everyday Loans that she intended to use the loan to repay two named debts. 
After taking into account that this should reduce her monthly credit spending overall, 
Everyday Loans felt that the monthly repayments for this loan were affordable for Ms M.But I dont think Everyday Loans thought carefully enough about what the information it had 
gathered showed about Ms Ms overall financial situation and the realistic likelihood of her 
being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. And I dont think Everyday Loans made a 
fair lending decision when it lent to Ms M based on the information it had gathered.
I say this because Everyday Loans had information showing that Ms M was already in some 
financial difficulty. She had at least five active credit cards, and whilst Everyday Loans has 
said the amount of credit overall was below average, I think it is noteworthy that all the cards 
were close to or approaching their credit limit. As Everyday Loans has mentioned, shed had 
some of these cards for a number of years. So I think this painted a picture of someone who 
was significantly reliant on using expensive credit cards to supplement monthly spending as 
there was no sign that Ms M was making any meaningful inroads into repaying this debt. 
And that wasnt surprising since, according to its affordability calculations, it looked unlikely 
that Ms M would have any or any significant monthly surplus after meeting all the costs she 
had to pay. 
Bearing in mind that Ms M had been in regular paid work for some years and she said the 
other adult in the household had the tenancy in their name and Ms M contributed just £300 
per month towards housekeeping/food/bills I think Everyday Loans should have realised that 
there was no obvious explanation why someone with the level of income it had established 
that Ms M received should need to rely to this extent on using expensive credit and be 
unable to repay it. I think Everyday Loans ought to have realised that at least some of the 
information it had gathered didnt appear to reflect what it saw regarding Ms Ms actual 
financial situation. So it shouldve understood that this called into question the information it 
was relying on.
As well as this, Everyday Loans saw evidence of reliance on other expensive credit to fund 
the purchase of household goods and appliances and defaults on Ms Ms record - including 
one incurred earlier that same year. 
Like our adjudicator, I think this credit history strongly suggested that Ms Ms finances were, 
in actual fact, already under significant stress and that the reality of her situation was that her 
debt was already unmanageable for her. I dont think that anything Ms M told Everyday 
Loans in support of her application was sufficient to explain her evident reliance on using 
high cost credit. And whilst Ive carefully taken into account what Everyday Loans has said in 
response to our adjudicators view, this doesnt affect my overall view. Her credit history 
suggested a reliance on borrowed money to support day to day spending. 
Everyday Loans was aware from its credit checks that the other adult in the household was 
also using expensive credit, so it didnt look like there was likely to be much flexibility in the 
household finances that mightve enabled Ms M to make savings elsewhere. 
I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that it looked like Ms M was supplementing her 
income with credit to fund her day to day spending and all the signs were that this loan 
looked like part of that ongoing pattern. 
I think our adjudicator was right to think that the affordability assessment that Everyday 
Loans carried out didnt leave a sufficient safety margin. 
Everyday Loans affordability calculation meant Ms M would have around £78 left each 
month after paying for this loan on top of everything else she was paying. And I think 
24 months was a long enough loan term to go beyond what would be a reasonably 
foreseeable period to expect complete stability in her finances. Having so little surplus 
income meant that Ms M was at real and immediate risk of money problems if her income went down or her expenses increased. I dont think Everyday Loans was reasonably able to 
be satisfied that Ms M would be able to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way over 
the whole loan term. 
The overall picture was of someone persistently reliant on expensive credit and unable to 
afford the cost of her debt given that the surplus income she had available each month after 
paying her outgoings and scheduled debts was insufficient to allow for any unexpected costs 
arising or emergency spending.
I've taken into account that Ms M had told Everyday Loans she intended to use this loan for 
debt consolidation  in other words, to pay off other debt. But the loan was paid to Ms M 
which meant that the lender wasnt in control of making sure the loan was applied for the 
stated purpose. So, Everyday Loans couldnt have been sure it wasnt putting Ms M in a 
worse position by increasing her overall debts. In the event, it looks like the debts she said 
she intended to repay werent in fact cleared until some months later which makes me think 
Ms M felt that she had other more pressing needs for this money. Given her financial 
situation I think that was reasonably foreseeable. 
And in any event, even if some other credit was to be repaid using the loan, I think the 
amount of her credit card debt that would be left outstanding (as it was never part of the 
planned debt consolidation) would suggest that Ms M would remain in serious financial 
trouble regardless with an unsustainably low amount of disposable income left over each 
month. 
So for all these reasons, I cant reasonably say that Everyday Loans made a fair lending 
decision based on the information in front of it and I dont think it should have agreed to 
provide this loan to Ms M.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything Everyday Loans has said, 
including its detailed responses to our adjudicators view. I appreciate the time Everyday 
Loans has spent setting out its position in some detail and I understand it takes a different 
view to me. I hope that setting things out as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my 
conclusions. 
As Ms M has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result 
of what Everyday Loans did wrong. So, I think Everyday Loans needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Ms M hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 
Everyday Loans acted unfairly towards Ms M in any other way. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms M to repay the principal amount that she 
borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has been charged extra for a 
loan that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Ms M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. 
Everyday Loans should do the following:add up the total amount of money Ms M received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Ms M made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Ms M having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms M.
Whilst its fair that Ms Ms credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any 
negative information recorded on Ms Ms credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ms complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman