DRN-4144792
The complaint
Mr M complains Nelson Insurance Company Ltd provided a poor service for his motor 
insurance claim. 
What happened
In December 2020 Mr Ms vehicle was damaged in a collision with a third-party vehicle. He 
claimed against his Nelson commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
Hes unhappy with the standard of, and delay to, repair the vehicle. In response to a 
complaint Nelson said it had provided Mr M with a good service throughout the claim. 
Our investigator said he couldnt fairly hold Nelson responsible for the repair as Mr M had 
used his own repairer. He also didnt feel the insurer had acted unfairly regarding settlement 
with the third-party. Mr M didnt accept that outcome, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr M and Nelson provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Our investigator considered how Nelson acted regarding settlement with the third party. But 
as far as Ive seen Mr M hasnt raised that issue as a complaint point to Nelson or this 
service. Neither, from what Ive seen, has the insurer responded to his concerns about that. 
He has raised concern regarding a claims management company and legal expenses 
insurance  but these are the responsibility of different firms to Nelson. 
So it wouldnt be appropriate for me to consider here how or why Nelson did or didnt make a 
settlement with the third party. If Mr M would like that considered he should raise his 
concerns with Nelson in the first instance.   
Mr M has raised concern at the quality of the repairers work on his vehicle. Hes also 
referred to delay to repair causing additional damage. Our investigator didnt consider the 
actual damage as he felt the repair wasnt the responsibility of Nelson. He was of the opinion 
Mr M had selected his own repairer  not used an approved repairer appointed by Nelson. 
Its not completely clear what did happen. It does seem Mr M introduced the repairer to the 
claim, but Nelson doesnt seem to have cash settled the claim. It also seems to have had a 
fair amount of contact with the repairer. So Im not certain if its fair to say the insurer had no 
responsibility for the repairers actions. 
However, ultimately it doesnt make a difference to the outcome of this complaint. I say that 
as Im not persuaded, based on what Ive seen, that the repairer did cause additional 
damage or fail to adequately repair the incident related damage. 
I wont detail every issue here  but as examples Mr M hasnt provided anything to show 
damage to his alloys was most likely incident related or caused by the repairer. Neither has 
he shown enough to persuade me the repairers removed premium windscreen wipers and 
replaced them with damaged cheaper versions. 
Mr Ms said delays to repairs caused additional damage to his vehicle  through lack of use 
for an extended period. Looking at the timeline I dont agree Nelson is responsible for it 
taking longer than might be expected for his vehicle to be repaired. 
Nelson authorised repairers within a few weeks of the incident.  A couple of weeks later Mr 
M said he wished to go down a different route with his claim. So Nelson quite reasonably 
cancelled the repair.  Around three months later Mr M returned to Nelson, he said he wanted 
to use the repairer thats been discussed in this complaint. He then delayed matters by 
changing his mind and requesting a cash settlement. 
That continued for a couple of months until Mr M agreed to use the repairer he had 
previously requested. The vehicle was repaired three or so weeks later. So any significant 
delay, and resulting additional damage, cant fairly be blamed on Nelson. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman