DRN-3396219
The complaint
Ms S and Mr T complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) froze their account and hasnt re-
activated it even though theyve provided documents to prove their identity. Ms S and Mr T 
are represented by a relative in bringing this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
submissions as having been made by Ms S directly.
What happened
Ms S and Mr T have a joint account with HSBC. The account was frozen due to dormancy in 
2019. Ms S says she wasnt given any notice of this. In January 2021, she contacted HSBC 
seeking to re-activate the account.
Ms S says HSBC told her that she and Mr T needed to provide proof of their address and 
their passports so that the account could be unblocked. As Ms S lives abroad, she asked if a 
relative in the UK could take the documents into a UK branch. Ms S says she was told this 
would be fine if the relative also took a signed letter of authorisation. But when the relative 
went to the branch in February 2021, Ms S says they were told they had no right to discuss 
the account and that the documents theyd brought in werent acceptable.
Ms S says she sent many emails to HSBC afterwards, which were ignored. She says she 
suspects racism played a part in this. She says that, when she next heard from HSBC, it 
said that the documents had to be certified and apologised that she hadnt been told this 
before. Ms S says she provided certified documents in February 2021 but, when she came 
to this service in July 2021, the account remained blocked.
She wants HSBC to unblock the account, provide new debit cards, apologise for the trouble 
and upset caused and pay some compensation to cover the cost of her calls to HSBC as 
well as the upset and inconvenience this situation has caused.
Our Investigator thought that HSBC should pay compensation of £300 to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience caused and reimburse Ms Ss call costs. She didnt ask HSBC to 
lift the restrictions on the account, as she thought Ms S and Mr T needed to provide 
identification documents in line with HSBCs policy first. Ms S disagreed. She said she has 
already confirmed that her address hasnt changed and that being asked to do anything else 
will cause serious inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ss account say that, if shes not using the account, HSBC 
may restrict payments in or out of it to protect against fraud. The terms say that HSBC will do 
this after 12 months but will let her know first. 
Ms Ss statements confirm that the last activity on the account was in April 2018. HSBC 
wrote to her in April 2019, telling her of its intention to freeze the account. There hadnt been 
any activity on the account for 12 months by this point. Ive seen a copy of HSBCs letter. It 
was sent to the correct address. It was also available online. So Im satisfied that HSBC told 
Ms S that it was going to freeze her account, in line with the terms and conditions.
The letter said that HSBC would freeze the account unless a transaction was made before 
25 June 2019. As there was no activity on the account by this date, I think it was reasonable 
for HSBC to freeze it.
Around 18 months later, Ms S contacted HSBC. I think its reasonable that HSBC wanted to 
verify Ms S and Mr Ts identity at that point, before re-activating the account. It asked to see 
documents to prove their identity and their address. Thats what Id expect.
But after that, I think HSBC made some mistakes. It didnt give Ms S accurate or sufficiently 
detailed information about the documents she needed to provide. It told her she could 
provide a bill in another language as proof of her address. That wasnt correct. It said that a 
relative could take the documents into a branch with a letter of authorisation. That wasnt 
correct. It didnt tell Ms S that the documents needed to be certified or explain the specific 
certification requirements. 
This led to Ms S providing documents on more than one occasion which didnt meet HSBCs 
requirements, meaning the account remained frozen. Given the amount of contact between 
Ms S and HSBC from January 2021, I think there was plenty of opportunity for HSBC to 
explain its requirements clearly. Unfortunately, this didnt happen.
I think its reasonable for HSBC to have specific requirements in place about the types of 
documents it will accept to prove a customers identity. I also think its reasonable for HSBC 
to be strict about this and to reject documents which dont meet its specific requirements. 
This is what Id expect. Its on the basis of these documents that HSBC will open up access 
to a customers account. So it needs to be sure its protecting the account and preventing 
fraud, so far as possible.
But I think HSBC needed to be clear with Ms S about its requirements. Im satisfied that it 
has clear procedures in place. But I dont find that Ms S was made aware of them or that 
they were explained to her clearly or fully by HSBC.
Our Investigator sent Ms S a link to HSBCs website which sets out details of the documents 
it will accept to confirm her identity and prove her address. It explains how the documents 
can be certified, including who can certify them, the wording they need to write on the copies 
and the details about themselves which they need to include.
Ms S says the documents she has provided should be acceptable to HSBC as theyve been 
certified. But I dont find that the documents meet HSBCs requirements. So I dont think its 
unreasonable that HSBC hasnt unblocked the account. And the terms and conditions allow 
HSBC to block the account if she doesnt give it any information it reasonably asks for.
Ms S says that, if HSBC sent a letter to her address notifying her of its intention to freeze the 
account, it must be satisfied thats her address. But that letter was sent in 2019, before the 
account was frozen. I dont think its unreasonable that, in 2021, HSBC required proof of Ms 
Ss address before re-activating the account. Ms S says she has confirmed over the phone 
many times that her address hasnt changed. So she says theres no reason for the account 
to remain blocked. But a customer verbally telling HSBC that they havent changed their 
address isnt the same thing as proving its their address by producing specific documents 
and having them certified. Thats what HSBC requires and I think thats reasonable.To date, Ms S hasnt provided documents which meet HSBCs criteria. So Im not going to 
ask HSBC to re-activate the account. But I dont think HSBC acted fairly here because it 
didnt explain clearly and accurately, from the outset, what Ms S needs to do to re-activate 
the account. That has caused significant inconvenience to Ms S and has contributed to the 
delay in her being able to access her funds. But I dont find that the delay is all HSBCs fault, 
as Ms S has since been told what she needs to do. 
Ms S says that Mr T incurred a late payment fee with another business because he couldnt 
make an annual payment from the HSBC account. The statements confirm that there havent 
been any transactions from the HSBC account since April 2018, so I dont find that an 
annual subscription was being paid from this account. In any event, the account was blocked 
in 2019 in line with the terms and conditions, so I dont find that HSBC is responsible for any 
fees incurred by Mr T elsewhere.
Ms S is very unhappy with the service she received from HSBC. I can appreciate that the 
situation has been very frustrating. As Ive said, I dont think HSBC explained clearly to Ms S 
from the outset what she needed to do to re-activate the account. But I dont find that it made 
any other mistakes here or acted unfairly in other ways. I havent seen any evidence that it 
ignored Ms S and Im satisfied that the steps it took were in line with its policies. So I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Ms S was treated differently from other customers.
Putting things right
I think HSBC needs to pay compensation to Ms S to recognise the trouble and upset caused 
by giving her inaccurate information. I think £300 is a fair amount here. I also think it would 
be fair for HSBC to reimburse Ms S for the phone calls she made. She hasnt been able to 
obtain proof of the call costs, but HSBC says its willing to pay £100 to cover these. I think 
thats reasonable. If Ms S accepts my decision, she should tell HSBC where to send the 
payment, as the HSBC account remains blocked currently. 
HSBC has confirmed its identification requirements and these have been passed on to Ms S. 
I would urge her to provide the information to HSBC as soon as possible.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
pay compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset Ms S and Mr T experienced; and
pay £100 to cover the cost of Ms S and Mr Ts calls.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman