DRN-2089754
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited (Capquest) didnt default her 
account when it shouldve done, meaning it continued to show on her credit file for longer 
than necessary.
What happened
Ten years ago Mrs R had a number of debts, but she was unable to keep up with 
repayments. She contacted a debt management company and agreed a payment plan with 
her creditors, which she paid each month. One debt, for a credit card, was sold to Capquest 
two years later. 
After six years, Mrs Rs other debts stopped showing on her credit file because the default 
marker had expired. But the debt with Capquest was still showing as an active agreement on 
a debt management plan.
Mrs R made many calls and sent numerous letters to Capquest to get the matter resolved. 
Capquest agreed the information would be removed but each month it still showed on her 
file.  Mrs R complained.
Capquest responded to say that the account hadnt defaulted when it took it over which is 
why it hadnt reported a default. As a resolution, Capquest agreed to remove the account 
from Mrs Rs file. Mrs R complained again because it continued to report the debt on her file 
and the matter was causing her distress.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Rs complaint. She agreed that the account hadnt defaulted 
when the debt was sold to Capquest, but she also noted that an arrangement to pay (ATP) 
isnt intended to be a long term solution. Our investigator thought that as Mrs R was making 
only token payments, her account shouldve defaulted after six months with her credit card 
provider, and certainly within six months of Capquest buying the debt. That meant the 
default shouldve cleared from her credit file a couple of years before. Our investigator 
thought that Capquest had done the right thing by offering to remove the account from Mrs 
Rs file. But she thought it should provide evidence that it had done so and pay Mrs R £125 
for the upset caused.
Capquest didnt agree. It said that because Mrs R always paid her minimum amount, the 
account hadnt defaulted. Therefore, Capquest didnt think compensation was warranted.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
Ill explain.
The issue, here, is that Mrs Rs account remained on her credit file for longer than six years. 
She thinks that Capquest shouldve defaulted the account so that it wouldnt appear on her 
credit file as an ongoing ATP beyond six years.
Ive looked at the rules set out by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), which 
expects a default to be registered by the time an account in an ATP is six months behind 
with payments.
The rules also say that if an ATP is set at a level which represents only a token repayment, 
the account should be recorded as defaulted.
It appears that Mrs Rs credit card provider shouldve defaulted the account, but I havent 
looked at that. My role is to look at whether Capquests actions were fair. When Capquest 
bought the debt, Mrs R was in an ATP. She paid the agreed amount each month so 
Capquest didnt think it was necessary to record a default. But, looking at the ICO rules for 
token payments, I think that Capquest shouldve defaulted the account six months after it 
bought the debt at the latest. So, whether it shouldve already defaulted or whether 
Capquest shouldve defaulted it after six months doesnt matter now. Thats because, either 
way, six years had passed when she complained so it shouldnt have shown on Mrs Rs 
credit file.
Capquest told Mrs R in its response to her complaint that it would update the credit file and 
the account would be delisted around 14 days after reporting it to the credit reference 
agencies. But each month the information still showed on her file and she had to contact 
Capquest to ask it again to correct the information. Its unfortunate that Capquest didnt do 
what it promised, and I can understand that it wouldve caused Mrs R some upset and 
frustration. 
Im pleased to note that Capquest has now delisted the account but its disappointing that it 
took more than a year from Mrs Rs initial complaint. The circumstances cant have been 
easy for Mrs R and I can only imagine the upset this matter caused her. She could 
reasonably have expected Capquest to act on its promise to update her information without 
the need to chase progress month after month. Our investigator thought Capquest should 
pay compensation of £125 by way of apology and Im inclined to agree. 
Putting things right
Although our investigator proposed that Capquest provides evidence that Mrs Rs credit file 
has been updated, Mrs R has since confirmed that the information is no longer showing. 
Theres little benefit in requiring Capquest to provide evidence of something Mrs R has 
already seen, so I havent made this action a requirement. 
But, considering the delays and the distress Mrs R would undoubtedly have experienced, I 
think compensation is warranted. Im satisfied that £125 is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Capquest Debt 
Recovery Limited must:
pay Mrs R £125 by way of apology for the delays updating her information and for the 
upset caused by this matter.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman