DRN-3859375
The complaint
Mr K complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Madison approved one loan for Mr K in March 2022 which was for £1,000 to be repaid over
12 months at just under £115 a month. The loan remains outstanding.
Mr K complained to Madison in August 2022 and referred his complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service soon after that in early September 2022 and so no final response letter
(FRL) from Madison had been received at that point.
Mr K explained that he could not afford the loan, he had been in a Debt Relief Order (DRO),
and Mr K said that he still was in the DRO at the time he applied. Mr K said that his
Universal Credit (UC) recognised that he had limited capacity for work and he had extreme
mental health issues affected his daily life. The loan stress had exacerbated that. Mr K has
said he wanted compensation as well as the loan account closed 
as my mental health has gone crazy because of the situation that I am in, that 
should never have been allowed in the first place.
The FRL was received in October 2022 and Madison did not uphold his complaint. It
addressed the irresponsible lending which it did not uphold. Plus, it addressed the
requirements in CONC 2.10.3 in relation to a lender required approach to mental capacity.
Considering Mr Ks complaint and the details he had given to Madison, it has requested that
he completes a Debt and Mental Health Evidence Form (DMHEF) so that it can offer Mr K
the correct support.
Madison sent to us its file to support its defence of Mr Ks claim which was reviewed by one
of our adjudicators. He did not think that the evidence Madison had at the time demonstrated
that Mr K could not afford the £115 a month. So, he did not think that Madison needed to put
things right for Mr K. 
Mr K disagreed and wrote with some updates which are very concerning. Mr Ks mental and
physical health has deteriorated and an incident occurred recently which places Mr K in a
high priority category of complainants.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. On 21 December 2022, I issued a 
provisional decision explaining that I needed more, and on current evidence I was planning 
not to uphold the complaint. 
The reply date was 11 January 2023 to give Mr K time to send in anything further he may 
have wanted me to see. A further week was allowed and we have received nothing from 
Mr K. Madison has not replied. And so, the final decision is issued on the same lines as the 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to consider
in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are whether
Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr K would be
able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown that Mr K
wouldve been able to do so? 
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr K and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ks ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr K. In
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan
wouldnt cause Mr K undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr K. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g.
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context
and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint. 
What follows are my final decision findings which are the same as my provisional decision 
findings. Since it was issued Ive not heard from Madison and Ive received nothing from 
Mr K. I appreciate Mr K has had a difficult time recently and that is why we have given Mr K more time to reply to my provisional decision but without more my findings remain 
unchanged. 
The first element which I address is Mr Ks income and expenditure figures. Just proceeding
on the information Madison has sent to us which appears to be the figures it has relied on,
Mr K had informed it that he earned £1,900 a month and his outgoings were £1,443 of which
£850 a month was rent, £65 for a credit card and £528 classified as other. I have no
information from either party what that other was.
Then, I reviewed the credit file search results that Madison had obtained and I disagree with
what our adjudicator has said in his view as its clearly marked on the credit file (and seen by
Madison before it approved the loan) that Mr K had a discharged Individual Voluntary
Arrangement (IVA) with dates being 18 May 2016 which ended 30 May 2017. Plus, a Debt
Relief Order (DRO) from 16 June 2017 which was registered as having been discharged in
June 2018. I am aware of the nature of a DRO, the eligibility for them and how they work
once a person is in a DRO.
Mr K had told us about the DRO. He has said he was still in a DRO when he applied for the
Madison loan. Ive not seen any evidence of that. In my provisional decision last 
December 2022 I asked for this to be to be clarified. But I know no more. 
The credit search showed that Mr K had several accounts, some of which were at zero
balance. There was a credit card with a £298 balance on a £400 limit and another with a
£1,011 balance on a limit of £1,200. Some of the historic accounts with adverse information 
look to have been addressed in the past with the DRO and IVA. So, Mr Ks current credit 
position was not a picture of a man who was overindebted. But the DRO and IVA information 
was detail enough to demonstrate that his past record was very poor. I think it was enough 
for Madison to want to know more before lending to him.
Further, for Madison to know this history and not show that it had verified the income Mr K
said he was on, is a concern. Mr K has said his income was derived from Universal Credit 
(UC) and that the UC payments would have demonstrated what he has told us - he was 
unable to work due to his mental health issues. 
And so, the additional checks I would have expected Madison to carry out seeing the DRO 
and IVA history as I have means that the income situation ought to have been checked as 
well. I dont think Madison did that.
I think Madison had enough to consider that additional checks ought to have been carried
out. But for me to assess whether Mr K was able to afford the loan or not then Id need some
detailed financial information from him which I do not have. Id need to know what it is that 
Madison would have seen if they had carried out the additional checks I would have 
expected it to have carried out. 
Ive already asked Mr K to clarify the dates of what he says is the current DRO and to send
us some details. In addition, Ive given both parties time  three weeks  to come back to me
with additional information. Having received nothing then I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint on 
affordability.
Mental capacity
As for mental health and the capacity for a customer to apply for and take a loan, I am
familiar with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) CONC Guide, chapter 2.10.3 to which
Madison refers in its FRL.And I agree with Madison  the on-line application would not have necessarily led to
Madison being aware or picking up on any signs that Mr K had mental health issues. And
Ive seen nothing in the application form data sent to me by Madison that shows me Mr K 
had told Madison of this at the time he applied.
And so, this element of the complaint I plan not to uphold. I explain in more detail here.
I have reviewed the FCA CONC Guidelines chapter 2.10  Mental Capacity Guidance. Mr K
says that he was not asked about his very specific health issues when he applied, so he
says that his personal circumstances were not considered. Mr K says he was not in a fit
mental state to be able to consider all the implications of the loans.
And reviewing the CONC Guidelines referred to by Madison, I do not consider that there was
a breach. A firm when granting a consumer credit agreement should consider the
customer's individual circumstances.
CONC 2.10.4 Guidance states that
A firm should assume a customer has mental capacity at the time the decision has to
be made, unless the firm knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should
know, or reasonably suspects, that the customer lacks capacity.
And the FCA Guide lists some behavioural indicators which, if the lender observes any, may
lead to the firm having reasonable grounds to suspect that a customer may have some form
of mental capacity limitation. These are in CONC 2.10.8 and are a guide list.
Mr K has not provided us or Madison with any incidents or factual matters which he thinks
would have led Madison to thinking, or given reasonable grounds for it to suspect, that he
had mental health issues. And for an on-line application I consider it very unlikely.
And even if Madison did have any grounds (which I do not think it had), CONC 2.10.7
guidance states this does not necessarily mean that the customer does not have the
mental capacity to make an informed borrowing decision.
I have seen a letter from Mr Ks doctor dated 21 November 2022. That will be vital evidence
going forward in relation to the debt collection agency and/or Madison. But it does not alter
my view in relation to assessing what it was that Madison knew at the time the application
was made.
I am aware that Mr K has taken a turn for the worse (without going into details for privacy
reasons), and I am very sorry to hear about that. Now that I have been told that the debt was
passed to a debt collection agency on 27 October 2022, then I expect Madison will have
received or should be getting that Debt and Mental Health Evidence Form (DMHEF) and so
Id expect it to act on that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Rachael WilliamsOmbudsman