DRN-2432176
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) declined his claim for storm 
damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
When Mr B returned from a holiday, he found that water had leaked through the ceiling in his 
house causing internal damage. So, Mr B phoned Tesco to make a claim for storm damage. 
Tesco asked Mr B to get some quotes for the work. 
When Mr B submitted the quotes, Tesco said it would send someone to assess the damage. 
Following that visit, Tesco declined the claim, as it said the damage wasnt caused by a 
storm.
Mr B complained to Tesco. When Tesco replied, it maintained its decision to decline the 
claim. However, Tesco offered Mr B £50 compensation because of the inconvenience 
caused to him by asking him to get his own quotes for the work.
So, Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
that she thought that it was reasonable to turn down the claim on the basis that a storm 
wasnt the cause of the damage.
As Mr B did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im aware that this will disappoint Mr B, I dont uphold this 
complaint or require Tesco to do anything further. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at weather reports to see if the weather conditions around 
the time Mr B said the damage happened were such that they would be considered a storm. 
Having done so, I didnt see any wind speeds in the weeks before the claim that would be 
considered severe enough to be storm conditions. There also wasnt a large volume of 
rainfall recorded around the time of the claim. So, I dont think there were storm conditions, 
which means the answer to the first question is no.
As a result, I havent considered the second and third questions because I think the claim 
was fairly declined, as there wasnt evidence of a storm. 
Looking at Tescos survey report, this said that the damage was caused by water entering 
through the skylight, rather than storm damage. Im aware that Mr B has said that the water 
had got through various parts of the flat roof, not just the skylight. But looking at Tescos 
survey report and the two quotes Mr B provided to Tesco, none of these seem to have 
identified an issue with the roof itself or a need for repairs to it. Whereas the surveyor 
identified an issue with the skylight and both of Mr Bs quotes listed resealing it. Ive looked 
at the policy document to see whether this or the internal damage might be covered by 
another standard part of the policy, but havent seen any terms that would provide cover for 
this. Mr B didnt have accidental damage cover as part of his policy, so it also couldnt be 
looked at under that part.
Im aware that Mr B was unhappy that Tesco took some time to decline the claim and that he 
thought Tesco had wasted his time by asking him to get quotes. It is reasonable for an 
insurer to investigate a claim and this can sometimes mean that a claim is declined at a later 
stage. In Tescos response to Mr Bs complaint it accepted that it shouldnt have asked Mr B 
to get his own quotes and that it should have appointed its own surveyor from the start. This 
seemed to add to the time it took Tesco to fully consider the claim, which I can see would 
have inconvenienced Mr B.  Tesco offered Mr B £50 compensation, which I think was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr B was also unhappy that him notifying Tesco of an incident was recorded on his policy. 
However, looking at the policy booklet, this explained: If the decision is made not to proceed 
with your claim, the incident will be recorded on your policy as a notification of loss. So, I 
cant see that Tesco did anything wrong, as it acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman