DRN-2414723
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline part of
their claim for contents under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr and Mrs P were unfortunately required to evacuate their home at
short notice for safety reasons. Long term major works were required to the structure of the
building where Mr and Mrs P lived in an apartment.
Mr and Mrs P were given limited time to collect belongings. Since leaving the property, they
made a claim to their insurer, Aviva following the theft of items left in the apartment. Aviva
accepted and settled the claim.
Mr and Mrs P said that the property service company arranged for the removal of their
remaining items from their home. However, they couldnt remove all of the items, namely
large items including white goods and furniture. Mr and Mrs P said that since they left, their
apartment has been left exposed to the elements. They made a claim for these items to
Aviva. But Aviva declined their claim. It said there was no insured event which led to the loss
or damage of the items being claimed for.
Mr and Mrs P asked us to look at their complaint. They said theyve since learned that the
property developer is looking to buy back the property. So they say they wont be able to go
back to their apartment.
Our investigator thought Aviva should consider their claim under the Household Removal
section of the policy. He thought Aviva should apply a broader view given the unique
circumstances of the case.
Aviva didnt agree. It said the term in question provides cover in the event that items are
damaged by a removal company while in transit. Even applying a broad view, Aviva doesnt
agree that it should meet the claim as the items havent been lost or damaged under an
insured peril under the policy.
Mr and Mrs P accepted the investigators view. 
I issued a provisional decision on 2 November 2020. I thought Avivas decision to reject their 
claim for damaged furniture items was reasonable. So I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. 
Neither party has replied to my provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any comments from either party, my final decision is on the same lines 
as my provisional decision.
I understand Mr and Mrs P will be very disappointed, but I think Aviva has acted reasonably 
and in line with the policy. Ill explain why.
The term in Avivas policy which our investigator thought should apply in a broader sense
says:
Household removals  we will provide cover for loss of or damage to contents while
being removed by professional furniture removers from the home to your new
permanent home.
However, Mr and Mrs Ps claim is for furniture items that havent been removed from their
home  but may have been damaged due to being exposed to the elements while major
works are done to the building. There isnt a claim available under an insured peril with
Avivas policy to meet Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances.
If the developer is looking to buy back the property, then I think Mr and Mrs P would need to
look to negotiating a price to include the loss of these items. Even if this doesnt happen, I
think Mr and Mrs P would need to look to recover their losses against the developer and/or
its insurer for loss caused by denial of access. However, Mr and Mrs P will need to seek
independent advice about that.
I understand that Mr and Mrs P have been through major upheaval and inconvenience. But I
dont think Aviva as their insurer is responsible for the losses they are claiming for as they
arent covered under the policy. So I think Aviva has treated Mr and Mrs P fairly and in line
with the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman