DRN-3722704
The complaint
Mr D complains that American International Group UK Limited, trading as AIG UK (AIG), isnt 
fairly progressing his claim for two damaged mobile phones under his gadget insurance 
policy. He wants AIG to repair his phones. 
Although Mr D has his gadget insurance through his bank account, Ill only refer to AIG in my 
decision. 
What happened
Mr D has gadget insurance with AIG, through his bank account. 
Mr D said that on 18 Feb 2022 he dropped both his phones. He said this caused one to go 
blank and the other to smash, with half of the screen flashing green. He said he called AIG 
to notify them of the accident on the same day. And that it told him that his phones werent 
registered. And that he would need provide the IMEIs. Mr Ds policy terms and conditions 
defined this as the unique serial number for Your Mobile Phone.
Mr D said that one of the two damaged phones was a replacement provided under his 
insurance policy by the previous insurer. Therefore he felt AIG must have the IMEI number 
for that phone. He was unhappy that the details hadnt been transferred over to AIG. 
Mr D said he told AIG that it was impossible to get the IMEIs due to the damage to his 
phones. He said that he was still being charged for the gadget insurance cover, but his claim 
wasnt being progressed. 
AIG said that Mr D called it to file a claim for two damaged phones on 26 February 2022. 
AIG said that it told him to he would need to register the phones with it so that it could file the 
claim. It said that Mr D questioned why AIG hadnt already registered the phones. And asked 
to speak to a manager. AIGs notes recorded that it arranged for a call back. 
On 3 March 2022, Mr D called AIG again to progress his claim. AIG said that during this call, 
its claims handler confirmed that it could register the phones. But Mr D didnt have the IMEIs 
needed. He queried why the phones werent already on the system. AIG said that its claims 
handler then told Mr D that a new insurer had taken over the contract in April 2021. And that 
the phones werent recorded as having already been registered. AIG said its claims handler 
told Mr D to contact the previous insurer for the phones details. And offered to provide the 
relevant contact details. 
AIG said that it told Mr D how to retrieve the IMEIs so that the phones could be registered.  It 
said that Mr D didn't want to contact the previous insurer. Its claims handler hadnt been able 
to put Mr D through to a team manager, as he had requested. It said that Mr D then said this 
was a deadlock and requested a deadlock letter. AIG said its claims handler told Mr D that 
he was covered. But it didnt have the phones details registered. And that the claims handler 
would log a complaint. But Mr D said he didnt want a complaint, just the deadlock letter. AIG 
said that its claims handler told Mr D that a complaint would need to be logged. And that the 
line had dropped at this point. 
AIG recorded in the complaint that Mr D was unhappy that his phones details werent 
transferred over from the previous insurer. And that he would have to contact them for those 
details. It also recorded that Mr D wasnt happy with the complaint timescales or because he 
didnt receive a call back after hed requested one. He was also unhappy that a complaint 
had been logged for him when hed asked for a deadlock letter.
AIG issued its final response to the complaint on the 9 March 2022. It upheld Mr Ds 
complaint about the phones details not being transferred over from the previous insurer. 
And his complaint about not getting a manager call back. It apologised and offered £20 
compensation for these. AIG didnt uphold the complaint that Mr D would have to contact the 
previous insurer himself to get the details. It said it couldnt do this itself due to data 
protection. It also didnt uphold the complaint about the deadlock request. It said it didnt 
have a deadlock process, and had followed the correct process by logging it as a complaint. 
AIG didnt uphold the complaint about complaint timescales as it used the standard 
timescale set by this service. AIG said that Mr D was insured and it could process his claim, 
but that it needed the phones to be registered first. 
Mr D emailed AIG to tell it he just wanted his phones repaired. 
Mr D brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. 
She felt that AIG had acted fairly and reasonably when itd asked for the IMEI number for the 
phones being claimed for. And that AIGs offer of £20 compensation was fair for not calling 
him back. 
Mr D didnt agree with our investigator. He didnt think our investigator had covered his main 
aim, which was getting his phones repaired. He said hed already had one of them repaired 
privately. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Im satisfied that AIG acted fairly when it said it 
needed to register the phones before it could process the claim. I know my decision will be 
disappointing to Mr D. Ill explain the reasons for it. 
Mr Ds position is that AIG should process his claim without the need for him to provide 
IMEIs for the two phones he was claiming for. He feels that hed already provided these and 
shouldnt need to provide them again. He also says that it would be very difficult for him to 
provide the IMEIs due to the damage his phones have suffered.
I first considered the terms and conditions of the policy. These recommended that a 
policyholder registered their devices as soon as possible, and within 48 hours of taking out 
the policy. And as part of the claims conditions, a policyholder must register their devices at 
the time they make a claim.
The policy terms and conditions further explain exactly what information is needed to register 
a device. The terms state:
To register your devices, you will need the following information:
 For Mobile Phones: make, model, IMEI number, and the telephone number associated with the mobile phone.
I dont consider that this is an unreasonable request. I say this because the IMEI - as its the 
unique serial number on a mobile phone - provides evidence that a specific phone has been 
lost or damaged. Its a usual requirement on a policy like this one. 
I acknowledge that Mr D was unhappy that AIG didnt already hold this information for his 
damaged phones. I understand that he felt that as the previous insurer had this information, 
it shouldve been passed on to AIG. But Ive no evidence that it was passed on. And Im 
satisfied that it wasnt unreasonable for AIG to ask for it again. Im also satisfied that AIG 
apologised for the information not being transferred. And offered compensation in respect of 
that, and the requested call back not being made. I consider that, under the circumstances, 
the £20 it offered was fair and reasonable. 
From what Ive seen, AIG advised Mr D to contact the previous insurer to get the IMEIs. And 
also told Mr D how he could retrieve the IMEIs he needed. At no stage did AIG decline 
cover. But it couldnt progress the claim until Mr D had registered his damaged phones with 
it. I dont consider that this is unreasonable. I say this because its the normal process AIG 
clearly outlined in the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr Ds main complaint is that AIG didnt fairly process his claim. But Ive found no evidence 
that AIG did anything wrong with its claim process. I consider that it acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with its policy terms, when it confirmed that Mr Ds phones were 
covered under his insurance, but that he needed to register them before it could process his 
claim. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask it to change its normal process. 
Therefore I dont uphold the complaint that AIG didnt fairly process the claim. Im satisfied 
that if Mr D provides AIG with the required IMEIs for his damaged phones, it will progress his 
claim.
In respect of Mr Ds other complaint points, AIG acknowledged that it didnt provide the call 
back Mr D requested. And also accepted that it wouldve been better if the IMEIs for the 
phones had transferred over. It offered £20 compensation for this. I consider this is fair under 
the circumstances. Therefore I dont require AIG to take any further action on this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman