DRN-3245343
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV cancelled her 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2018 Mrs J took out a private medical insurance policy with CIGNA. She completed 
the application form with her broker who countersigned the document before it was 
submitted. 
In June 2020 Mrs J made a claim on her policy for hip surgery. As part of the claims process 
CIGNA asked for more information about Mrs Js medical history. When they received the 
further information, they cancelled Mrs Js policy on the basis that she hadnt accurately 
disclosed her medical history to CIGNA during the application process. CIGNA said that if 
she declared her medical history they wouldnt have offered her the policy. So, they 
cancelled it. They agreed to reimburse Mrs J the premiums she paid in an email in July 
2020. Mrs J complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
Mrs J hadnt disclosed a history of fractures and that, had she done so, CIGNA would have 
most likely declined to provide the insurance cover. He thought that CIGNAs decision to 
cancel the policy and refund the premiums was in line with the relevant law. So, he didnt 
think that CIGNA had treated Mrs J unfairly. 
Mrs J didnt agree. In summary, she said that CIGNA hadnt refunded any premiums and 
shed acted truthfully. She also thought that CIGNA should pay for a repatriation flight from 
one country to another which had been arranged so she could get medical treatment during 
pandemic. Mrs J also said that CIGNA had all the medical evidence relating to the hip 
surgery and nothing had been omitted. Finally, she said it was legally unethical to cancel the 
policy without letting Mrs J know. 
Our investigator clarified that CIGNA would need to refund all the premiums in relation to the 
policy. As the policy wasnt a travel insurance policy he didnt think CIGNA needed to pay for 
Mrs Js repatriation. He also reiterated that it was the non-disclosure of the fractures, as 
opposed to other medical conditions, that meant that cover was cancelled. Finally, he 
explained that CIGNA had issued a cancellation notice to Mrs Js broker and contacted 
Mrs J to let know the policy was cancelled. 
Mrs J asked an ombudsman to look into her complaint. She said no refund of premiums had 
been received and that all the details on the application for insurance were correct. And, she 
thought CIGNA had reassured the broker that all the payments would be met. Mrs J feels 
CIGNA should pay compensation for their unreasonable behaviour. So, I need to make a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Decision to cancel the policy 
CIGNA says Mrs J incorrectly answered medical questions which they were asked
when she took out her policy. This means the law set out in the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) is relevant and I think its fair and
reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of her claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that
of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered when deciding whether a
consumer has taken reasonable care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the
insurer were. 
Mrs J was asked several questions when taking out her policy in 2018. She was asked to 
declare any;
Muscular or skeletal complaints, e.g. back pain, whiplash, arthritis, joint pain or 
problems, gout, fractures, problems with cartilage, tendons and ligaments. 
The form asked Mrs J to provide further information if she answered yes to this question 
even if she was unsure as to its relevance. 
Mrs J declared that shed been diagnosed with Poliomyelitis. She said that she was 
completely cured and had no symptoms or problems.  
CIGNA says, in response to these questions, Mrs J should have told them about a number 
of medical issues shed experienced. In deciding whether I think Mrs J took reasonable care 
in answering these questions, Ive reviewed the medical information Ive been provided with 
and Ive also considered what Mrs J has told us about her medical history. 
I think Mrs J should have told CIGNA about her history of fractures and other medical 
problems in response to the questions they asked. That included shortening her right thigh in 
approximately 1970, a fracture in 2020, a fracture in 2003, surgery on her leg in 2004, a 
fracture in 2010, surgery in 2010, a fracture in 2014 and treatment on her knee in 2015. The 
medical notes from 2019 say that Mrs J was having increased problems with her left foot, 
linked to her former diagnosis of Poliomyelitis and indicated that she would need surgery on 
first her hips and then possibly her left foot. Mrs J said she wanted to arrange the surgery for 
June 2020, which is when she ultimately returned to the clinic to have the operation.   
So, having taken all of the above into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for CIGNA to 
conclude Mrs J should have disclosed information about the fractures when answering the 
questions Ive set out above. She had a significant history of muscular skeletal issues which 
I think was information she ought to have shared in answer to the questions above. 
Therefore, I think she did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA  in relation to 
the fractures.
CIGNA has demonstrated that if Mrs J had provided more information about these medical 
conditions then it wouldnt have offered her the policy, based on their underwriting criteria.
As Mrs J made a qualifying misrepresentation, CIGNA is entitled to apply the relevantremedy available to it under CIDRA. This says that, in cases of careless misrepresentation, if 
the insurer would not have entered into the contract of insurance they are entitled to cancel 
the policy and treat it as if it had never been in place. However, CIGNA should refund the 
premiums to Mrs J. It has already offered to do that. I appreciate that Mrs J hasnt yet 
received the refund but I think its likely that CIGNA were awaiting the outcome of the 
complaint to this service before doing so. Our investigator has already let CIGNA know that 
they need to refund the premiums following Mrs J raising concerns on this point. 
I appreciate that Mrs J feels that the hip issue didnt pre-date her taking out the policy. But I 
dont think that this is central to the outcome of this complaint. As Ive outlined above Mrs J 
had an extensive history of muscular skeletal issues which would have impacted on 
CIGNAs decision to offer cover. So, even if I concluded that the hip problem arose after 
cover started, I still wouldnt uphold this complaint.
Based on the evidence Ive been provided with Im satisfied that CIGNA wrote to Mrs J in 
July 2020 to let her know that her policy was cancelled, and the reason why. They also 
explained this information when responding to Mrs Js complaint. So, I dont think CIGNA 
treated Mrs J unfairly. 
Repatriation flight
Mrs J returned from abroad to her home country of residence in June 2020. She wants 
CIGNA to cover the cost of her repatriation flight. The policy does cover repatriation in some 
circumstances. 
However, the travel permit Mrs J has provided makes no mention of her being evacuated for 
medical reasons. It says that she is being evacuated due to the Coronavirus crisis. And, in 
any event, as Im satisfied that the policy has been fairly cancelled in line with the relevant 
legislation, there are no fair and reasonable grounds upon which I can ask CIGNA to cover 
the cost of the repatriation flight. Thats because the policy wouldnt have been offered to 
Mrs J if shed accurately disclosed her medical history. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman