DRN-4260850
The complaint
Miss D complains NewDay Ltd lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss D opened the following accounts with NewDay, and was given the credit limits below: 
Credit card 1
Date Limit
August 2018 £300
December 2018 £1,200
April 2019 £2,950
September 2019 £3,750
July 2020 £4,000
October 2020 £4,750
October 2021 £5,750
Credit card 2
Date Limit
July 2020 £600
November 2020 £1,350
November 2021 £2,250
Credit card 3
Date Limit
August 2021 £700
December 2021 £1,200
May 2022 £1,600
Miss D complained to NewDay that she shouldnt have been given the accounts because 
they were unaffordable, and she was frequently only making the minimum payment each 
month.
NewDay looked into Miss Ds concerns and issued their final response which explained they 
felt theyd carried out sufficient checks before approving her lending. They also explained 
Miss D was given the option to opt out of credit limit increases, and she didnt choose to do 
so  in fact, she proactively asked for a credit limit increase in July 2020. Therefore, they 
didnt think her complaint should be upheld. Miss D remained unhappy, so she brought her 
complaint to our service.
Our Investigator felt Miss Ds complaint should be partially upheld. She didnt think Miss Ds 
credit limit for credit card 1 should have been increased in September 2019, to £3,700. She 
also felt Miss D shouldnt have been allowed to open credit cards 2 or 3. And to put things 
right, our Investigator said interest and fees on balances over £2,950 (on credit card 1) 
should be refunded, alongside all interest and fees applied to credit cards 2 and 3.
NewDay agreed with our Investigator, but Miss D didnt. Miss D felt interest and charges for 
her entire balance should be refunded from the date of the £3,700 credit limit increase for 
credit card 1 (alongside what our Investigator recommended for credit cards 2 and 3).
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, so Miss Ds complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, and 
Im partially upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Before lending to Miss D, NewDay were obligated to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks so that they could determine whether the borrowing was affordable and sustainable 
for her. Our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is on our 
website, and Ive used this approach to help me decide a fair and reasonable outcome for 
Miss D.
2018 lending decisions
When Miss Ds credit card 1 was opened in August 2018, NewDay gathered information 
about Miss Ds income and carried out a credit check. This showed Miss D was earning 
around £27,000 a year; and had three open accounts. It also showed she had five defaults, 
of which the last one was applied just over three years prior, and two Count Court 
Judgments (CCJ), of which the last was recorded more than two years prior.
While there were negative markers in Miss Ds credit file, I dont consider it would be fair if 
lending to her was automatically declined for that reason. Thats because in Miss Ds case, 
the financial difficulties shed experienced had occurred more than two years before she 
applied for this account. That suggested she was in a better financial position than shed 
previously been in. Given the initial credit limit was for £300, I dont consider additional 
checks were warranted before NewDay could open credit card 1.
In December 2018, Miss Ds credit limit was increased from £300 to £1,200. This time, when 
making their lending decision, NewDay relied on what they knew of the way Miss D was 
managing her account with them, and information from credit referencing agencies.
The information Ive seen from that time doesnt suggest there were any issues with the way 
Miss D was managing her accounts with NewDay or any other lenders. As such, I dont 
consider further checks were warranted before increasing her credit limit to £1,200.
Given the above, Im satisfied NewDay treated Miss D fairly when they opened credit card 1, 
and when they increased her credit limit for that account to £1,200.
April 2019 lending decision
Again, NewDay relied on how Miss D was managing credit card 1 and gathered information from credit referencing agencies. However, I consider the information they gathered ought to 
have made NewDay consider carrying out additional checks.
Additional checks were required because Miss D now had six open accounts, and her 
outstanding balances had increased quite substantially. This suggested she may have 
become more reliant on borrowing  and in turn, additional borrowing may not have been 
affordable for her.
For me to get a better understanding of Miss Ds circumstances in April 2019, Ive reviewed 
her bank statements from that period of time. When doing so, the evidence showed her 
income was still around the amount she detailed in her application for the credit card. And, 
after essential expenditures, she had a disposable income of around £900 per month.
Ive also reviewed how Miss D managed credit card 1, and seen she made her payments on 
time, and stayed within her credit limit. The evidence also showed that shed often make 
more than the minimum repayment each month. As such, Im persuaded she was managing 
her account well, and I cant fairly say her credit limit shouldnt have been increased to 
£2,950.
September 2019 lending decision
In September 2019, Miss Ds credit limit was increased to £3,700. However, when 
considering the information NewDay had access to at that time, I dont think this increased 
credit limit should have been offered to her.
The evidence shows that between April and September 2019, Mis D paid below the 
minimum repayment in all months but one. This ought to have been a clear indicator to 
NewDay that she was struggling to manage her account. The information from credit 
referencing agencies showed Miss D had used six cash advances between May and 
September 2019, which is another potential indicator of financial difficulties.
The information above ought to have been enough for NewDay to recognise it was highly 
unlikely that increasing Miss Ds credit limit would have been affordable or sustainable. 
Thats because not only was she relying on cash advances, but she was also unable to 
consistently meet her repayment obligations under her existing £2,950 credit limit. 
Given the above, I dont consider NewDay should have increased Miss Ds credit limit to 
£3,700.
Credit cards 2 and 3 
As Ive explained above, I dont consider it was appropriate for NewDay to have increased 
Miss Ds credit limit in September 2019. As credit cards 2 and 3 were opened after 
September 2019, I also consider it was unreasonable for NewDay to have opened those 
accounts. I say this because these accounts were opened around the time her credit limits 
were increased on her other card. And this pattern of borrowing suggests Miss D may have 
been becoming reliant on borrowing  and in turn, further lending wasnt sustainable for 
personal circumstances. 
Putting things right
As I consider NewDay treated Miss D unfairly, they need to take steps to rectify the mistakes 
they made from September 2019 onwards.
When we consider a consumer shouldnt have been given credit, our usual approach is to ask the business to refund the interest and charges added to the borrowing they shouldnt 
have been given. So, for credit card 1 this means removing all interest and charges applied 
to any balances Miss D accrued above £2,950. However, interest can be charged on 
balances up to this amount. Thats because I consider a credit limit up to £2,950 was 
affordable for her circumstances.
Regarding credit cards 2 and 3 card, I consider all interest and charges should be removed 
because she never should have been allowed to open those accounts.
For the reasons above, Im upholding Miss Ds complaint in part.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Miss Ds complaint about NewDay Ltd.
To Put things right NewDay Ltd need to:
For credit card 1, rework the account removing all interest, fees, and charges (not 
already refunded) that have been applied to balances that exceed £2,950.
oIf the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss D 
along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. NewDay Ltd should also remove all 
adverse information recorded after September 2019 regarding this account 
from Miss Ds credit file.
oAlternatively, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £2,950, 
NewDay Ltd should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss D for the 
remaining amount. Once this outstanding balance has been cleared, any 
adverse information recorded after September 2019 should be removed from 
Miss Ds credit file.
For credit cards 2 and 3, rework the account removing all interest, fees, and charges 
(not already refunded) that have been applied.
oIf the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss D 
along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. NewDay Ltd should also remove all 
adverse information regarding these accounts from Miss Ds credit file.
oAlternatively, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, 
NewDay Ltd should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss D for the 
remaining amount. Once this outstanding balance has been cleared, any 
adverse information in relation to these accounts should be removed from 
Miss Ds credit file.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay Ltd to deduct tax from any award of interest, 
it must give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for 
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
If NewDay has already done all of the above, there is nothing further they need to do to 
resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman