DRN-2402155
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr Q during a phone call in 2007. The 
policy protected his mortgage monthly repayments if Mr Q couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that Santander hadnt provided Mr Q with 
all the information it shouldve done  in particular, it hadnt made Mr Q aware that the policy 
offered him only limited benefit in his situation, given his medical condition. 
Our adjudicator didnt think it likely that Mr Q wouldve bought the policy if hed understood 
this. 
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Qs complaint. 
The policy potentially provided cover for up to 12 months in the event of accident, sickness 
and unemployment. But I dont think Santander did enough to point out to Mr Q a significant 
feature of the policy and the impact of Mr Qs existing health problems on the cover hed get 
under the policy.  
Looking at the policy document Santander sent us, I think Mr Q mightve found it hard to 
make a successful disability claim for absence arising from a pre-existing medical condition. 
Mr Q told Santander and us that he had been diagnosed with a long term health condition  
he wasnt sure exactly when this was but hes consistently told us it was during the 1980s. 
This means hed had this condition for around 18 years or so when he signed up for the 
policy.
Santander said it would be happy to review its decision upon receipt of documentary 
evidence of Mr Qs pre-existing medical condition confirming when it was diagnosed and 
how it was managed at the time of the policy sale.
But, as this sale took place so long ago, I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr Q to be 
able to provide evidence of the date he was diagnosed with the condition hes told us about. 
I dont think theres any reason to doubt the information Mr Q has provided. So it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable for me to disregard what hes told us about a pre-existing health condition 
he had when he signed up for this policy.
Mr Q told us that his condition was unpredictable and although he managed his condition 
with a range of treatments, including medication, it had led to him having to take time off 
work. 
And given the nature of his condition, I think Mr Q might reasonably have expected that it 
could potentially have a significant impact on his day to day life and lead to him needing to 
take time off work.
Theres no call recording now available and l dont know what was said about the PPI during 
the phone call. This was an advised sale. So the onus was on Santander to check if Mr Q 
was likely to be caught by any policy limitation. 
I cant see how or if Santander explained to Mr Q that there was a risk he wouldnt be able to 
claim on the policy in all the circumstances he might reasonably have expected. Given his 
medical condition was ongoing, I think Mr Q wouldve wanted to know it would be covered by 
taking out this type of cover. And if Santander had given him clearer information about how 
the policy terms and conditions impacted on Mr Q in his particular situation, I dont think its 
likely that he wouldve thought the policy was right for him.   
I've taken into account that Mr Q wouldve been able to claim for other benefits under the 
policy. But I dont think its likely that Mr Q wouldve wanted this PPI if hed realised he would 
be paying for a policy that offered him only limited benefits.
I think if Mr Q had been aware that he wouldnt have been able to claim for absence related 
to an existing health problem then he wouldnt have thought PPI provided good value. I say 
this because sickness cover was a significant part of the benefit Mr Q bought. 
So Im upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr Q in the position he wouldve been had he not taken out the policy. 
So, Santander should: 
Pay Mr Q the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr Q made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For these reasons I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr Q as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman