DRN-3135804
The complaint
Company R (R) complains that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) have unfairly voided its policy 
following a business interruption claim.
QIC use intermediaries to administer their insurance and manage claims on their behalf, for 
which they are ultimately responsible as the principal. So any reference to the insurer within 
this decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of any such intermediaries.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, R operates a night club and took out a business protection policy 
with QIC on 31 March 2019. It subsequently made a claim in May 2019 following an 
application for the revocation of its licence due to a physical altercation that broke out in 
February 2019, where a customer was assaulted by two workers on its premises.
During QICs investigation of the claim, it came to light that an application for closure notice 
had been presented to the Licensing Board by Police Scotland in March 2019 as a result of 
the physical altercation in February 2019. This was supported by the Licensing Board, and it 
was stated that Rs business would be closed from 7 March 2019, with the notice remaining 
in force until 4 July 2019. This also prompted a review hearing to consider the revocation of 
Rs license in May 2019. The matter was subject to an ongoing appeal, and R was 
subsequently successful in having its license reinstated. It was concluded that the 
circumstances giving rise to the claim and closure of the business pre-dated the policy QIC 
issued on 31 March 2019 and would therefore be the concern of whichever insurers were on 
risk at the time the closure notice was issued.
However, QIC said that R was aware of the closure order at the point it applied for the policy 
in March 2019 but had failed to disclose it in breach of its duty of fair presentation under the 
Insurance Act 2015. The insurer said that Rs misrepresentation was material to their 
assessment of the risk, and that they would not have offered cover if it had disclosed the 
police ordered closure and ongoing issues at the time. As a result, they took the decision to 
void the policy.
R complained that QIC had not acted fairly. It said the insurers decision had been based on 
false and outdated information provided by the loss adjuster. It was also unhappy that QIC 
had notified other insurers linked to its policy about the voidance, which also led to the 
withdrawal of its legal expenses cover.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that R had breached its duty 
of fair presentation, which entitled QIC to void the policy under the Insurance Act 2015. R 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Section 3 of the Insurance Act 2015 imposes a duty upon the policyholder to make a 
fair presentation of the risk, including every material circumstance they know or ought to 
know would influence the judgment of a prudent insurer in determining whether to offer 
cover.
The insurance proposal completed by R asked:
has there been any opposition to the granting, renewal or transfer of the licence 
within the last 5 years/ or has the licence holder ever had an application for the 
renewal of transfer of the licence refused.
I can see that both of these questions had been answered No.  
Rs statement of fact stated that the named proposers of insurance met all statutory 
obligations relating to the operation of the business and that there were no current or 
ongoing or potential matters that would give rise to any legal or contractual obligation. It also 
set out that R had not experienced any incidents within the past ten years that could give 
rise to a claim.
QIC submits that Rs failure to disclose the issues concerning the closure notice served by 
the police and the answers it gave (or failed to correct) on the statement of fact amount to a 
breach of its duty of fair presentation. 
I appreciate that R did successfully appeal against the loss of its licence. However, this does 
not change the fact that the police had still made allegations that R was in breach of its 
licensing objectives on the grounds of failing to prevent crime and disorder and securing 
public safety. The police closure order stated:
I am of the view that there is a likelihood of disorder on the premises by reason of 
the premise licence holder having allowed the premises to be under the control of 
persons who have now been charged with serious offences involving violence, 
allegedly perpetrated on the premises. Therefore, in the interests of public safety, I 
seek closure of the premises until the premises licence holder is capable of operating 
the premises in accordance with the licensing objectives.
It was this closure order that subsequently prompted the Licensing Board to review Rs 
license in May 2019 (and resulted in it being revoked).
The duty of fair presentation means that the insured must declare every material 
circumstance they know or ought to know would influence the judgment of a prudent insurer 
in determining whether to offer cover. And given there had been a closure order served by 
the police that called its license into question, its clear that this created a risk of its license 
being revoked at the very least, such that R ought to have declared these circumstances to 
QIC.
In any event, R had also confirmed in its statement of fact that in the last 10 years it had not 
experienced any incidents that have given or could give rise to claims or that it had any 
current or ongoing or potential matters that could give rise to any legal or contractual 
disputes. So Im satisfied that these statements were misrepresented by R at the very least, 
as the matter regarding the closure of Rs business was still ongoing at the time the QIC policy was incepted. 
I understand that R may not consider these matters to have been material. And while I 
appreciate it was able to get its license reinstated, an application to have the premises 
closed following a serious incident is, in my judgment, clearly something that would be 
material to the underwriting of a prudent insurer  particularly when the policy includes loss 
of license cover. 
I accept that a closure order may not necessarily always lead to a license review hearing. 
But there is little doubt that it reasonably constitutes an incident or matter that could give 
rise to a claim or legal dispute (which indeed, it did). So Im satisfied that R misrepresented 
the risk to QIC in this respect and breached its duty of fair presentation. 
Section 8 of the Insurance Act 2015 sets out the remedies for breach of the duty of fair 
presentation, but states that any breach must be a qualifying breach  i.e. one that induced 
the insurer to offer cover on different terms than they otherwise would have done. The 
remedy an insurer can take in response to a qualifying breach is set out in Schedule 1 of the 
Act and is dependent on whether the breach was deliberate or careless.
QICs underwriters have confirmed that, had they known about these issues at the time, they 
would not have underwritten the risk or provided cover on any terms. So, Im satisfied that 
Rs non-disclosure can be considered a qualifying breach in these circumstances, as it 
induced the insurer into offering cover they wouldve otherwise refused. 
QIC say that Rs non-disclosure was deliberate and or reckless, which would entitle them
to void the policy and retain the premiums paid under Schedule 1 of the Insurance Act 2015.
However, in this instance they have chosen to refund the premiums in any event, so I do not
consider it necessary to determine whether the breach was deliberate or reckless, as Im
satisfied it was careless at the very least. A careless breach still entitles the insurer to void 
the policy, but obliges them to refund the premiums, which is the remedy QIC have already 
chosen, seemingly as a gesture of goodwill due to issues with their communication regarding 
the voidance.
So Im not persuaded that QIC have acted unfairly by voiding Rs policy in these
circumstances, as Im satisfied there was at least a careless (qualifying) breach of its duty to 
make a fair presentation of the risk, which led the insurer to offer cover they otherwise 
wouldnt have provided.
R has also complained about the way in which QIC voided the policy. I acknowledge that 
they were left with very little time in which source an alternative policy. QIC have also 
conceded that they delayed in confirming the position of the voidance, and I accept that this 
couldve been done sooner. But while I appreciate the insurer could have handled things 
better here, Im not persuaded it has ultimately caused R any detriment or financial loss, or 
that it would warrant an award of compensation in these circumstances. The insurers gave 
notice of their decision to void on 17 February 2020. And while I understand that R would 
have benefited from time to source another policy, it was due to lapse on 31 March 2020 in 
any event, so they wouldve always had to start looking for another policy anyway. 
R has also said that it thinks a lot of the information contained in the minded to void letter is 
false and inaccurate, and it is unhappy that it has been shared with other insurers. I 
understand that QICs decision to void has subsequently affected its legal expenses cover it 
had in place with another insurer under the policy (ARAG) as QIC informed them of their 
intention to void the policy. But given that I dont consider QIC to have unfairly voided the 
policy, I dont think there was anything wrong with them informing the insurers of other 
sections of the policy about their intention to void, as the reasons for the voidance may well have been relevant to the other insurers providing cover as well. So, even if some of the 
statements contained within the minded to void letter were not entirely accurate, Im not 
persuaded it has made much difference in these circumstances, given that there was still a 
valid basis for the policy being voided in any event. If R considers that any of the other 
insurers have wrongly withdrawn cover based on inaccurate information, it should make a 
separate complaint to the relevant insurer. 
I understand that R is also unhappy with the way in which its complaint was handled. 
However, complaint handling is not an activity regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(it is not considered as the provision of a financial service, for example). Therefore, this 
service has no jurisdiction to consider such matters.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to R, but in the circumstances, I do not 
consider that QIC have unfairly voided the policy. And although their handling of the matter 
could have been better, Im not persuaded it warrants an award of compensation in these 
circumstances, so I will not be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman