DRN-2788815
The complaint
 Mr P owned a property in mortgage to lender V. There was a fixed interest rate product at 
1.39% which was due to expire on 31 December 2019. After that date the mortgage would 
go onto Vs standard variable rate (SVR) of 4.99%.
Mr and Mrs P decided to re-mortgage in joint names and consulted mortgage broker London 
and Country Mortgages Ltd who recommended an application to lender S. This was 
ultimately successful, but Mr and Mrs P complain that:
1. the application was delayed because L&C hadnt realised it didnt fit Ss lending criteria. 
This caused them to have to pay Vs SVR for a time;
2. it was further delayed by miscommunication between L&C and S;
3. they had to pay stamp duty which L&C hadnt warned them about.
 
What happened
  Complaint 1 
Mr and Mrs P say they started the application with L&C on 28 October 2019, nearly ten 
weeks before the existing product was due to expire. An application was made to S, but this 
was automatically refused because the property had over ten acres of land. Mr and Mrs P 
say it wasnt unusual for properties in that part of the country to have large amounts of land, 
but L&C didnt ask how much land there was.
There followed an appeal process which was successful but could have been avoided 
entirely had L&C recommended a lender who didnt take exception to properties with this 
amount of land. This took some weeks to sort out. S confirmed the appeal had been 
successful on 9 January 2020 and the new mortgage was completed on 20 January 2020.
Mr and Mrs P say they were then charged £2,085.94 by V for those 20 days at 4.99%, 
whereas at the 1.39% rate that they should have been on, it would have only cost £402.95. 
The difference is £1,682.99. This is calculated on the total capital sum borrowed of 
£529,416.02. 
Complaint 2
Mr and Mrs P say that after this there was a further delay of about 7 days. Mr P was told by 
L&C on 9 January 2020 that a mortgage offer had been made, only to discover a week later 
that their solicitors hadnt received it because of some miscommunication between L&C and 
S.
Complaint 3
Mr and Mrs P say that as part of the process they transferred the property from the sole 
name of Mr P into their joint names to enable a joint mortgage application. Stamp duty of 
£3,236 was charged to them without any warning. L&C failed to advise them that they would 
be charged stamp duty on Mrs Ps 50% share of the transferred mortgage debt. 
L&C didnt uphold the complaint. It said:
Complaint 1
Mr and Mrs P hadnt said the property had over ten acres of land. L&C had asked them 
whether there was anything unusual about the property, other than a flat roof already 
disclosed, and they had confirmed there was nothing else. At the end of the discussion L&C 
had asked if there was any other information they wished L&C to know, and they had said 
there wasnt.
Complaint 2
L&C had pointed out to S on 9 January 2020 that it had a better rate. S had faxed a copy of 
the mortgage offer directly to Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors the same day but this was for the 
incorrect previous rate. L&C didnt receive a copy. The delay caused by this wasnt due to 
any error by L&C.
Complaint 3
In their online enquiry form Mr and Mrs P had said that they both owned the property. In the 
subsequent discussions with L&C they didnt mention that they were transferring from sole to 
joint ownership. Had they done so, L&C would have told them that additional costs would be 
incurred and that they should seek legal advice. But as this wasnt disclosed to L&C, it was 
unaware of the situation.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with this and brought their complaint to our service. 
In its submission to our service in reply to the complaint L&C said that following an online 
enquiry Mr and Mrs P had made contact on 29 October 2019. L&C had recommended a 
product from S and the details and illustration had been sent to Mr & Mrs P the same day. 
This met with their approval and on 6 November 2019 a formal application was submitted to 
S. The valuation took place on 19 December 2019 but it said that the property was believed 
to contain 11.5 acres of land which did not meet Ss lending criteria. The land exceeded ten 
acres and an appeal was made for this to be considered outside lending criteria. On 
9 January 2020 S confirmed the appeal had been successful and the application had been 
accepted.
An amendment was made to the application as a lower rate had by then become available 
and the formal mortgage offer was issued on 16 January 2020 and completion took place on 
20 January.
At no time did Mr and Mrs P inform L&C that the property had over ten acres of land.
L&C repeated its position on complaints 2 and 3.
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint was then looked into by one of our investigators who didnt uphold 
it.
Complaint 1The investigator didnt think L&C should reasonably have known the property had more than 
ten acres and wouldnt fit Ss lending criteria. L&C had asked Mr and Mrs P whether there 
was anything unusual about the property to which they had answered no. The investigator 
wouldnt expect L&C to have knowledge about the size of the property or the size of 
properties across the UK. L&C had no reason to think the application didnt fit Ss lending 
criteria. So the investigator couldnt attribute this delay to L&C.
Complaint 2
The investigator said that on 9 January 2020 S had issued its mortgage offer following the 
successful appeal. L&C emailed S the same day to make sure it was changing to the lower 
rate.
S responded on 10 January 2020 saying "Offer now issued and faxed to solicitors". L&C 
then emailed S again saying that the mortgage offer had been issued with the previous 
interest rate and asked for the status of the updated offer with the lower interest rate. L&C 
chased S again and on 15 January 2020 L&C spoke to S who confirmed it would be issuing 
the new mortgage offer the following day, which it did.
The investigator didnt find that it was L&Cs fault that the previous interest rate was issued. 
L&C had tried to make sure that the offer was issued with the lower rate. The mortgage 
offers were issued by S and sent to the solicitors by S. Any delays were because S didnt 
switch the interest rate when asked to do so. They werent the fault of L&C.
Complaint 3
The investigator said Mr and Mrs P had told L&C that they owned the property jointly, and 
she couldnt see that theyd corrected this information or asked L&C about transferring 
ownership. She therefore didnt think L&Cs service was lacking or that it was responsible for 
the additional stamp duty Mr and Mrs P had to pay. Ultimately, their solicitors oversaw the 
legal aspects of the re-mortgage.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator. On complaint 1 they said that prior to the 
valuation, no-one from L&C had ever asked them how much land came with the property. 
But when the valuer arrived he quickly ruled out doing any work on the valuation as the 
property would unacceptable to S as it had over ten acres. That was the first theyd heard of 
this particular qualification.
Had they been asked, at the start of the mortgage application, how much land there was, 
theyd have answered 11.5 acres. It wasnt something they had any idea could possibly be a 
red flag for mortgage providers. It wasnt a problem when Mr P got the original mortgage. 
And it wasnt unusual for properties in that area to have ten or more acres. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt comment on the investigators view of complaint 2. They accepted her 
view of complaint 3, the stamp duty issue, and that they should have been responsible for 
taking legal advice on this.
Mr and Mrs P asked for an ombudsmans second opinion. They also made some further 
submissions:
As to whether there was anything unusual about the property, most people would approach 
that question from the viewpoint of the lender. This was an opportunity to tell the lender 
about any out of the ordinary characteristics which it would need to factor in, which might be detrimental to the propertys value or marketability, Such as if the house were built 
underneath a motorway, or were on the edge of a cliff.
But having 11 acres of land was not unusual for a property in that area, and most people 
would assume that this made a property more appealing rather than less. It certainly made it 
more valuable.
A mortgage broker should know the basic criteria under which the lenders it dealt with were 
prepared to lend and should ask its customers to let it know if their properties did or didnt 
meet those criteria, so that it could offer products which were suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs P gave the following example of what they meant:
Suppose the broker knew that:
Bank A wouldnt lend on properties with flat roofs; 
Bank B wouldnt lend on properties which had more than 6 bedrooms;
Bank C wouldnt lend on properties which had over ten acres of land.
These were easily understood and measured criteria. They werent living under a 
motorway type criteria. So when the broker was working out which products were suitable 
for the customers, it would be sensible to ask them:
Does your property have a flat roof?
Does your property have more than 6 bedrooms?
How much land does your property come with?
Or would the broker instead just ask: tell us whats not standard about your property? and 
hope that the customers knew what was deemed standard and what was deemed not 
standard? Mr and Mrs P say that if a product had a specific exclusion, a broker shouldnt just 
assume that the customer would flag it up.
I took a different view of the complaint from the investigator. So I decided to issue a 
provisional decision, setting out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both 
parties have now responded and so I issue my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Its common ground that Mr and Mrs P didnt tell L&C that the property had over ten acres of 
land. The question is whether they ought reasonably to have done that and whether L&C 
ought to have asked about it.
It was L&Cs job to check that Mr and Mrs P would fulfil Ss lending criteria. If they wouldnt, 
there was no point in applying to S. L&C knew, or ought to have known from Ss 
intermediaries website, that S didnt accept properties with more than ten acres of land.
Mr and Mrs P on the other hand werent to know the significance of the 10+ acres. It was a 
remortgage of Mr Ps existing property, and this hadnt been a problem for the previous 
lender. Mr and Mrs P didnt know that a lender might regard this acreage as a disadvantage, 
and as a reason to exclude a property from lending criteria. But L&C did know that, or ought 
to have known it.Mr and Mrs P were offered a mortgage by S on 16 January 2020. They say that but for the 
delay caused by the initial rejection and the need to appeal, an offer would have been made 
before the product expiry on 31 December 2019. I see no reason to doubt that.
The approach to L&C having been made on 29 October 2019, and the application to S on 
6 November 2019, its my view that but for the initial rejection and the need to appeal, an 
offer would have been made in sufficient time for the re-mortgage to be completed 
immediately upon the product expiry on 31 December 2019. Because that didnt happen, 
Mr and Mrs P had to pay Vs SVR until 20 January 2020.
As matters stand that loss has fallen upon Mr and Mrs P. However I dont think thats fair. I 
consider it fairer that the loss should fall on L&C because L&C was the party who knew 
about Ss criteria. It was L&Cs business to check that the application didnt offend those 
criteria. Just asking whether there was anything unusual about the property wasnt in my 
view sufficient. I agree with Mr and Mrs P that in that rural part of the country, the amount of 
land wasnt unusual. In an inner city area the position might be different. For the L&C 
adviser, knowing of Ss land restriction and seeing the address (and indeed the name) of the 
property, the question should have been asked.
In their response to the investigators recommendation, Mr and Mrs P didnt dispute her view 
of complaint 2. However as the SVR would have been avoided altogether but for the 
complaint 1 delay, this is academic. Mr and Mrs P accepted the investigators view of 
complaint 3.
the responses to my provisional decision
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs P accepted my decision. L&C 
didnt. It said:
It didnt know the property, or the area. It wasnt a mortgage brokers responsibility to 
research the property, its nature or its condition. The responsibility for providing details of 
the property rested entirely with the client and L&C could only base its research on the 
information provided by them.
Mr and Mrs P hadnt said the property had substantial land attached. It was 
unreasonable to say that L&C should have been aware of properties in that area, as 
residential properties in general did not have either woodland or substantial acres of 
land. L&C had no reason to question Mr and Mrs P further in this area. Lenders[ criteria 
might contain any number of limitations but it was impractical to discuss each and every 
one in detail unless the client makes L&C aware of something that may fall under them.
It was unusual for a lender to include the amount of land in its published criteria. It wasnt 
a specific question in the application. This situation would have occurred whether 
Mr and Mrs P had applied through L&C or directly to the lender.
The first L&C knew about the land was after the valuation on 24 December. At that point 
Mr and Mrs P believed the land was less than 11.5 acres. That wouldnt have been 
outside Ss lending criteria. Therefore even if Mr and Mrs P had mentioned this at the 
outset, it was unlikely to have altered the outcome. L&Cs recommendation would have 
been suitable based on Mr and Mrs Ps knowledge of their property.
It wasnt until Mr and Mrs P applied for additional information from the land registry that 
this was clarified and L&C was able to appeal in January that the land was confirmed as 
over 11.5 acres. So L&C wasnt responsible for the delay or the SVR.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont agree that it was Mr and Mrs Ps responsibility to volunteer information about the 
acreage. They had no reason to think it might be important, still less that it could be a 
problem.  It was only L&C who knew, or should have known, that S would not lend if the 
acreage exceeded a certain figure. 
I agree with Mr and Mrs P that if a product has a specific exclusion, a broker shouldnt just 
assume that the customer will flag it up.
The fact that Ss land criterion was unusual was even more reason for L&C to ask 
Mr and Mrs P about it. And also more reason for their having no cause to think the amount of 
land might be important. I agree the same thing would have happened if they hadnt 
employed a broker. Brokers knowledge of lenders criteria is one of the reasons for doing 
so. Mr and Mrs Ps case is that as they did employ a broker, it shouldnt have happened.
I dont see that Mr and Mrs Ps belief that there was less than 11.5 acres is relevant. 
Anything over ten acres would have been outside Ss lending criteria.  
Putting things right 
For these reasons Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusion that its fairer 
that the loss should fall on L&C because L&C was the party who knew, or should have 
known, about Ss unusual criterion. It was L&Cs business to check that the application didnt 
offend Ss lending criteria.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order London and Country Mortgages 
Ltd to pay Mr and Mrs P £1,682.99. 
It should also pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date of each interest payment they 
made to V in respect of the period 1-20 January 2020, until the date of settlement. 
If L&C considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give them a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2021. 
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman