DRN-2193392
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that he was required to visit a National Westminster Bank Plc branch to 
deal with a block placed on his account during the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr B received a text message relating to his National Westminster account, prompting him to 
call the bank. Concerned that the message might be a scam, Mr B says he was reluctant to 
answer the security questions posed. National Westminster told Mr B that because he hadnt 
passed its security checks, it had blocked his account. Mr B says the bank told him the only 
way to remove the block was for him to visit a branch with identification.
Although Mr B had been identified by his GP as being at serious risk if he caught Covid-19, 
he did as the bank said and attended a local branch. He describes having to borrow the 
money to pay for a taxi because of the account block, finding a long queue on his arrival and 
then being told that the branch wouldnt allow him due to the risk. Mr B was able to visit 
another branch where he successfully had the block lifted.
Mr B feels he was caused unnecessary difficulty and worry. He complained to National 
Westminster about the way it had handled matters.
The bank acknowledged it didnt deal with things appropriately, noting that it had put in place 
measures to avoid the need for vulnerable customers to attend the branch during the 
pandemic. National Westminster noted Mr B wasnt provided with the correct options and 
apologised, offering to cover Mr Bs taxi fares of £12, and to pay him £70 compensation.
Mr B didnt accept the banks proposal and asked us to review matters.
Our investigator was satisfied it was possible for Mr B to have verified his identity to the bank 
without having to visit the branch. Because of the way National Westminster had handled 
matters, Mr B had made an unnecessary journey at a time when hed been advised to self-
isolate because of his medical history.
The investigator felt National Westminster had caused Mr B a fair amount of avoidable 
trouble, and didnt think the banks offer went far enough to resolve Mr Bs complaint. He 
recommended National Westminster increase the compensation from £70 to £150, as well 
as paying Mr Bs taxi fare.
National Westminster agreed to increase its settlement offer. But Mr B remained unhappy, 
saying that the compensation didnt reflect the value of his life. The matter has been passed 
to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive already noted, National Westminster has already recognised that it didnt handle 
Mr Bs situation as it should have. It made an offer of compensation to Mr B, which it has 
revised on the recommendation of our investigator, and its the amount of this compensation 
that appears to be the main sticking point between the parties.
Although this has been acknowledged, for the sake of completeness I find that National 
Westminster put Mr B to unnecessary trouble in visiting the branch to identify himself and 
have the block removed from his account. It seems only right the bank ensures hes not out 
of pocket as a result, by covering the taxi fare. The key question for me in determining the 
appropriate level of compensation is the extent to which Mr B was caused distress or 
inconvenience by the way the bank handled matters.
Mr B has expressed his view that the bank failed to consult with him about his state of 
health, that it disregarded Covid-19 guidance and that it acted irresponsibly and negligently 
towards him. But even if I agreed with him, its not within my power to make an award of a 
punitive nature. Rather, I need to consider the impact the banks actions had on Mr B.
I dont doubt that it would have been embarrassing to Mr B to have to ask a neighbour for 
the taxi fare. I can also understand why Mr B was so worried. The block on his account 
coincided with a period of national concern over the pandemic, and he describes how he had 
been advised to self-isolate due to his underlying medical condition. It seems to me quite 
plausible that Mr B would have been highly concerned about leaving the house in such 
circumstances.
The bank has apologised and in response to our investigator, has offered to pay Mr B £150 
in recognition of his distress and the inconvenience caused. Overall, while I understand Mr B 
feels differently about the situation, I find this is a fair sum to address these aspects of his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc 
should pay Mr B a total of £162 in settlement of his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman