DRN-3786739
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr N holds with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
Hes unhappy that Halifax hasnt allowed him access to the lowest interest rates available 
over the years, leaving him a mortgage prisoner. He would like redress for the extra interest 
he says he has overpaid as a result.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so Ill merely summarise them
here.
Mr Ns mortgage was on an initial fixed rate that expired in 2009, at which point the
mortgage reverted to Halifaxs standard variable rate (SVR). Halifax sent out a letter to 
inform Mr N he could ask for a new deal, but he says that letter never arrived. He applied for 
a new rate in 2012, but says he was turned down because his loan to value ratio (LTV) was 
too high. His mortgage has remained on SVR ever since. 
Mr N obtained consent to let the property out in 2019, and accepts he is required now to pay 
interest at the SVR. But hes unhappy that he was on SVR for the intervening ten years, 
paying more interest than he believes he should.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, and when it came to us, our investigator took the view 
that our power to consider the complaint was restricted to events since November 2014. 
When she looked at what had happened since then, she wasnt persuaded Halifax had done 
anything wrong. Mr N asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In a 
jurisdiction decision issued in October 2022, I confirmed that we could only consider events 
since November 2014.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides
instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that there are two main issues for me to decide here. They are:
whether Halifax did enough to let Mr N know that better deals were available and what 
he needed to do in order to get one; and
whether Halifax was obliged to offer Mr N a better deal.
 
Ive already explained why Im restricted to considering what Halifax did (or didnt do) after 
November 2014. Meanwhile, I only need to consider what it did up to the point Mr N obtained 
consent to let the mortgaged property out (and therefore became ineligible for a rate other 
than SVR) which was at the end of 2019.
On the first question, I think Halifax did make Mr N aware better rates were available. Im not 
referring here just to the letter it sent when his initial fixed rate ended in 2009. That 
happened before November 2014, so is outside the period our rules allow me to consider. In 
any event, Im happy to take Mr N on face value when he says he didnt receive the letter. 
What I am referring to is that Mr N did apply for a better rate in 2012 (also outside the period 
our rules allow me to consider). That was turned down, for a specific reason, but its enough 
to tell me Mr N knew better rates were available, and that a future application might be 
accepted if the reason for the 2012 rejection no longer applied. 
On the second question, its a matter for a borrower to choose whether or not to apply for a 
new rate, and make the application if they want one  including making sure they know when 
to do so. Mr N has told us he contacted Halifax many times over the years about being stuck 
on SVR. However, the available evidence doesnt point to Mr N having submitted another 
formal request for a better rate between November 2014 and the end of 2019. Even if he 
had, its quite possible that it would have been turned down, regardless of any other 
consideration, for the same reason that his 2012 request was turned down; that is, that his 
loan-to-value (LTV) was too high.
Its worth pointing out that no borrower is entitled to a lower rate; lenders have to consider 
context and individual circumstances in all cases. They also have their individual lending 
criteria and appetite for risk, for example the maximum LTV exposure a lender considers 
acceptable. Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to say what those criteria 
should be, or to second-guess lenders judgement on risk. 
Putting all of the above together, Im not convinced Mr N made a request to vary the interest 
rate on his mortgage during the relevant period. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, 
which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman