DRN-4003617
The complaint
Mr Cs complained about his dealings with ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE SERVICES LIMITED, 
trading as Autonet Insurance Group, in relation to his car insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, ATLANTA was the policy broker, and the insurance was 
provided by a third-party insurer. Mr C paid the premium via a third-party finance provider.
What happened
Mr C arranged an annual policy through ATLANTA, paid for via monthly direct debit through 
the finance provider. He contacted ATLANTA in July 2021 to instruct it to not renew the 
policy in July 2022. 
The policy was nevertheless renewed in July 2022, despite Mr Cs earlier instructions, and 
again paid for via monthly direct debit. A few weeks after the renewal, Mr C cancelled the 
finance agreement with the finance provider. The non-payment of premiums ultimately led to 
ATLANTA cancelling the policy itself and requesting that Mr C pay the outstanding premium 
of £114.51 plus its £50 cancellation fee. ATLANTA subsequently agreed to waive the £50 
cancellation fee as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with ATLANTAs actions, Mr C brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. They believed ATLANTA had 
failed to act on Mr Cs instruction to not renew the policy from July 2022 and that the issues 
that ensued would have been avoided had it done so. The investigator asked ATLANTA to 
remove any adverse database entries from Mr Cs records regarding the cancellation, waive 
the outstanding premium and pay Mr C £75 as compensation for the upset hed been 
caused.
The file was passed to me to review afresh as ATLANTA didnt agree with the investigators 
findings. ATLANTA said that when Mr C first approached it to complain he felt it had 
cancelled the policy in error  not that it had renewed the policy in error. ATLANTA 
considered that Mr C was happy for his policy to be renewed and this was demonstrated by 
him allowing the renewal despite being sent automatic renewal reminders in good time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr C instructed ATLANTA in 2021 he didnt want his policy to renew in 
2022. Nor is it in dispute that ATLANTA was aware of those instructions and failed to act on 
them when the initial policy came to an end. 
On that basis, I think its fair to say that the policy wouldnt have renewed in 2022 if not for 
ATLANTAs errors. To my mind, it follows that the events that occurred after the policy 
renewal shouldnt have taken place and that Mr C should be compensated for the losses he 
incurred as a result.
I acknowledge ATLANTAs point about Mr Cs complaint as expressed to it in 2022. But Im 
satisfied that the issues surrounding the cancellation of the policy wouldnt have come about 
in the first place had the policy ended in July 2022 as Mr C was led to believe it would. I 
believe the renewal and cancellation aspects are interrelated as reflected, for example, in 
Mr Cs complaint to us where he said:
Autonet renewed my policy without my knowledge even though they had a note 
saying it was not to be automatically renewed for 2022-23! Their complaints 
response letter has inaccurate details on it, and it even says they have renewed my 
policy when they knew not to renew it! Autonet want to charge me because they think 
I have cancelled my policy. It has not been cancelled because it should not have 
been renewed in the first place.
I also acknowledge ATLANTAs argument that it gave Mr C adequate notice of the renewal 
in 2022. Although he says he wasnt aware of its intention to renew as he didnt see 
ATLANTAs correspondence about it. In any case, I can see why Mr C might not have paid 
much attention to any renewal papers he might have seen considering hed already been 
given assurances by ATLANTA that the policy wouldnt be renewed. 
Taking everything into account, including all of ATLANTAs responses to the investigator, I 
dont believe ATLANTAs treated Mr C fairly regarding the policy and I think it should put 
things right for him. That includes paying compensation for the impact its actions have had 
on him, including causing him unnecessary inconvenience and worry about ATLANTA 
demanding money from him on several occasions that he didnt consider he owed.
Putting things right
To return Mr C to the position hed likely have been in had the policy not renewed in July 
2022, ATLANTA should:
Waive the outstanding premium for the relevant policy year; and
Waive any policy cancellation fees (as I gather its already agreed to); and
Ensure any negative entries on internal and external databases regarding the 
cancellation are removed or corrected to reflect this final decision; plus
Pay Mr C £75 as compensation for the avoidable distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced as a result of its actions.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require ATLANTA 1 INSURANCE 
SERVICES LIMITED, trading as Autonet Insurance Group, to put things right as explained 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman