DRN-2241065
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) turned down a claim under his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L noticed mould on a wall in his home. Repairs were carried out to the roof, as a builder 
identified this as the source of a leak that had then caused internal damage. Mr L contacted 
UKI to make an insurance claim. UKI accepted the claim for the internal damage under the 
accidental damage section of the policy, but it didnt accept the claim for the roof.
So, Mr L complained to UKI. UKI maintained its decision to turn down the roof-related part of 
the claim. It said that there was no evidence of a storm around the time of the claim and the 
damage was more likely to be the result of wear and tear.
Mr L complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that he 
agreed there hadnt been a storm around the time of the claim, but that, based on what the 
builder had said, he thought it should be considered under the escape of water peril in the 
policy. He said that UKI should also pay £100 compensation.
As UKI didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI turned down Mr Ls claim because there was no evidence of a storm around the time the 
damage was found. UKI thought the damage was more likely due to wear and tear. It said 
that the builder who carried out the repair had said there was wear and tear to the roof. 
However, Mr L and the builder have said that the damage was caused by an escape of 
water from a pipe that over a period of time caused damage to the roof. I also note that Mr L 
had the damage repaired before he made a claim on his insurance, so UKI wasnt able to 
inspect the damage itself.
I asked UKI to provide the phone call when Mr L contacted it to report the damage. UKI said 
it couldnt provide the phone call, so I havent been able to listen to it. As a result, I dont 
know exactly what was discussed and how Mr L described the damage. But looking at the 
other evidence provided in this case, I think that Mr L, ultimately, wanted the claim to be 
considered as damage as a result of an escape of water from an overflow pipe, not as a 
storm claim. Looking at the information provided by UKI, although its main consideration 
appeared to focus on whether there was a storm, I can see that it did also consider whether 
the damage was a result of an escape of water and decided that it wasnt.
UKI has said that Mr Ls builder told them there was general wear and tear to the roof and 
based on this and its own assessment of the photos, including evidence of patching, it 
thought the damage was due to wear and tear. UKI also said it didnt accept our 
investigators view that the damage had more likely been caused by excess water deposited 
in the same place over a long period. It said that it should have been the lead on the roof 
that was in contact with the water, which according to the details for lead products would be 
impermeable to water, water vapour and air.
UKI has said that, based on the evidence it considered, including its conversation with the 
builder, it thought this showed that the damage was wear and tear. I also asked UKI to 
provide that phone call, but it was unable to do so. So, I havent been able to listen to that 
either, so I dont know what the builder was asked or how he answered. However, Ive 
looked at the other evidence provided by Mr L and the builder, which included emails and 
photos.
In an email to Mr L, the builder said that UKI had asked him the cause of the leak and that 
he had said it was the result of a broken ball valve in a water tank within the loft causing the 
overflow to run for months rather than a day or so. He also said the continuous running of 
the overflow depositing large amounts of water in the same place over time had caused a 
hole within the felt covering causing it to bubble and leak. 
Looking at the photos, although there are some signs of wear and tear to the roof, I think the 
damage was in a focussed area that showed a clear difference to the condition of the rest of 
the roof. Ive also thought about the builders and Mr Ls explanation of the cause  a leaking 
pipe - and think what they said seems consistent with the visible damage. 
Although I accept that there are some signs of wear and tear to the roof, I dont think that 
means that the water leaking into Mr Ls home could only be caused by wear and tear or that 
it necessarily makes wear and tear the main cause in this instance. I also accept that lead 
should be impermeable, but looking at the photos and the evidence provided by the builder 
who dealt with the damage, he didnt say that it got in through the lead and I dont think the 
photos show that either. The builder said that it got in through the roof covering. 
I have read UKIs claim notes and these said that the the builder confirmed that damage to 
the valley was holes in the lead which was allowing water to penetrate inside, but UKI hasnt 
been able to provide the phone call, so that I can listen to what was said. So, in this 
instance, I think it is fair for me to put more weight on a direct explanation from the builder 
about how he thought the water got in, which he said was as a result of a pipe overflowing 
for months damaging the roof covering.
So, thinking about all of the above, I uphold this complaint, as I think it is more likely than not 
that the damage to the roof was caused by an escape of water from a pipe, which is an 
insured peril under the terms of the policy. 
As a result, I think that UKI should settle the claim for the roof damage under the escape of 
water part of the policy. I also think that UKI should pay Mr L £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the way that his complaint was handled.
Putting things right
As a result, I think that UKI should settle the claim for the roof damage under the escape of 
water part of the policy. I also think that UKI should pay Mr L £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the way that his complaint was handled.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. As a result, I 
require U K Insurance Limited to:Settle the claim under the escape of water section of the policy
Pay 8% simple interest on the settlement amount from the date of claim to the date on 
which the payment is made
If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr L a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Mr L £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman