DRN-3346124
The complaint
Mr M had a loan account with Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans (Likely 
Loans). He complains that he received an annual statement a year after his account was 
closed. He is also concerned that if Likely Loans are still sending correspondence, they may 
be sending it to his old address that they hold on file. 
  
What happened
Mr M held a loan account with Likely Loans which closed in February 2020. 
In August 2020 and February 2021 Mr M received refunds of interest from Likely Loans. 
In July 2021 Likely Loans sent Mr M an annual statement by e mail for the last 12 months 
transactions. 
Mr M was unhappy that Likely Loans sent a statement when the loan had been closed over 
12 months previously, and he was concerned that this might also have been sent by post to 
an address that he no longer lived at. So he complained. 
Likely Loans sent their final response in August 2021 which said it was their regulatory 
requirement to send an Annual Statement covering the last 12 months of activity on his 
account. They also said that it was Mr Ms responsibility to update his address details. 
Mr M was unhappy with this response and he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into this. She thought that Likely Loans had done nothing 
wrong. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I have reviewed all information provided by both Mr M and the business.
I can see why Mr M has questioned why it was necessary to send a statement for an 
account that was closed 12 months previously. However, the refunds of interest took place in 
August 2020 and February 2021 and would need to be recorded as transactions on that 
account at the relevant dates so that there was an accurate account history. 
 
Likely Loans have explained that an automated Annual Statement was generated to reflect 
these transactions. As there had been a change to the account history, I can see why it 
would have been necessary to send the statement, and so I dont think Likely Loans have 
done anything wrong here. 
As Likely Loans are an online lender, their communication is sent only be e mail. In Mr Ms 
original agreement, the terms and conditions state:
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY OF COMMUNICATIONS:
By signing the Agreement you hereby agree to our sending to you the following types of
communications and documents to the e-mail address supplied during the application
process.
Likely Loans have provided us with evidence which shows that the statements have only 
been sent by e mail, and so I am satisfied that no correspondence has been sent to Mr Ms 
old address. However, as the obligation lies with Mr M to keep his address details updated, it 
would be sensible for him to do this directly with Likely Loans to avoid any future confusion.  
For the reasons state above, I agree with the investigator that Likely Loans havent done 
anything wrong here and I wont be recommending that they do anything further.   
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about 
Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman