DRN-4138164
The complaint
Mr B complains about how esure Insurance Limited trading as esure (esure) handled his 
claim after his car was hit by a third party. Mr B is also unhappy he had to pay the excess 
despite the accident not being his fault. 
What happened
Mr B has comprehensive motor insurance for his car. The period of insurance began in 
February 2022. The policy covers the car against accidental damage, loss, or damage 
caused by fire or theft. 
Unfortunately in May 2022 Mr Bs car was hit by a third party who was involved in a police 
chase at the time of the incident. 
Mr B reported the accident to his insurer and provided all the necessary documents and 
information to support the claim a few days later. 
Mr B says esure took no action in respect of his accident for three months. As a result of the 
delays he had to pay the policy excess when his car was repaired in August. 
Mr B says the claim should have been dealt with in a timely manner and if it had esure would 
have been able to establish that the incident wasnt his fault. It would also have meant the 
witness would have more of a recollection of events, and the police would have been able to 
provide esure with the information it required.  Mr B has been chasing esure for updates but 
received no response. 
Mr B says it has been established the other driver was also insured by esure and he 
believes this has led to esure not establishing a no-fault claim as it would have to bear the 
costs. Mr B wants his excess refunded and for esure to guarantee his premium wont 
increase as a result of the claim. 
Esure said it wasnt able to record the claim as non-fault since investigations into the 
accident were ongoing. It explained the third party had denied involvement and so esure 
would need to secure evidence to show this was not the case. It said it had given 
instructions to take a statement from the witness and to obtain the police report. Esure said it 
was following its process and were handling the claim as proactively as possible. It 
acknowledged there were some delays at the outset of the claim and apologised for this. In 
recognition of the delays it compensated Mr B with £150 and a refund of his excess, which 
amounted to £800. Esure also said it had recorded the claim as not responsible while 
investigations were ongoing.
Mr B wasnt happy with the response from esure and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. He said whilst he could see there were 
delays at the outset of the claim, he thought the fact the excess had been refunded, and 
compensation paid for the delays, together with the fact esure had recorded the claim as 
being non-fault despite there being an open claim, were fair and reasonable steps taken by 
the insurer. 
Mr B didnt agree with the outcome. He said he wanted compensation for the increase in 
premium as a result of the delay. Esure didnt agree to increase the compensation paid. And 
so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to explain my role here is to look at whether esure acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner, and within the terms and conditions of the policy in the handling of the 
claim. 
I know Mr B has said he feels esure has treated him unfairly on purpose, and the fact the 
third-party driver is apparently also insured by esure has impacted how it has handled his 
claim. I am sorry he feels this way but I havent seen anything that persuades me this is the 
case. 
Contacting various parties to the accident 
Mr B is unhappy esure didnt contact the police or witnesses more quickly after the accident 
was reported. He feels esure could and should have done more to speak to the various 
parties to the incident in order to obtain an admission of liability.
Esure said its priority at the time the incident was reported was to deal with Mr Bs repairs as 
quickly as it could. But it did accept there was some initial delay in progressing the claim 
when it was first reported. Esure paid Mr B £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the shortcomings in its service. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable offer. I 
say this because I think it fairly recognises the upset caused to Mr B in relation to the above. 
Mr B says had esure contacted the other parties more quickly it would have been able to 
establish liability. But there is no guarantee this would have been the case. There is a 
backlog with obtaining police reports, and the driver of the vehicle was unknown. So I think 
its unlikely an admission of liability would have been forthcoming regardless of whether 
esure contacted the other parties any sooner than it did. And I cant fairly hold esure 
responsible for the actions of the other parties. 
Non-fault claim and policy excess 
I can see this incident and its consequences have had a significant impact on Mr B. I can 
understand when the claim was recorded as a fault claim it would have shocked and upset 
him since the incident wasnt Mr Bs fault. But generally claims are initially recorded as fault 
claims until they are resolved and any monies paid out are recovered. So whilst I understand 
Mr B is upset by this, it is standard practice by insurers and I dont think esure did anything 
wrong here. I note that despite the claim remaining open esure has amended the way it 
recorded the accident to non-fault despite having no guarantee it will recover its outlay. 
Esure has also reimbursed Mr B for the policy excess  which he was always liable to pay 
under the terms of the policy.
Increased premium 
It is important to explain we are not the industry regulator. That means its not my role to tell 
an insurer how much it can charge for its policies. And our service generally takes the view that provided it treats people fairly an insurer is entitled to charge what it feels it needs to in 
order to cover a risk.
Mr B isnt happy is insurance premium has increase following the accident. But since esure 
hadnt been able to recover its costs from the third party the incident was initially recorded as 
a fault claim. And this has meant his premium has increased. The increase is in line with 
esures usual practice and is standard practice across the industry. So I dont think esure 
has done anything wrong in increasing the premium. 
Compensation 
Mr B wants esure to pay him the difference in his policy premium by way of compensation 
but as explained since I dont think it acted unfairly in increasing the premium, I cant ask it to 
refund the difference. The insurance contract is an annual one and consumers arent obliged 
to accept the renewal terms they are offered if they are unhappy with them. 
Having reviewed the documentation its clear to me an award was due to Mr B for the 
distress this whole episode caused. I can see there was some delay in progressing the claim 
when it was initially reported and Mr B has been frustrated at having to chase esure for 
updates and information. I think this was unfortunate but Im please esure recognised it 
could have provided a more proactive and transparent process at the outset and paid £150 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. It also reimbursed the £800 excess and recorded 
the matter as non-fault while its investigations are ongoing. I think this is a fair award for the 
level of upset caused during the claim. 
I understand Mr B is very unhappy with this matter. And that is understandable given whats 
happened. But esure has accepted there were some delays initially and compensated Mr B 
accordingly. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr B. esure has accepted the service fell below 
what would be expected and has paid Mr B £150 to reflect this. esure has also refunded his 
policy excess of £800 and recorded the claim as non-fault. I think the compensation paid 
fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B and in line with what I would 
have suggested had an offer not already been made. 
My final decision
esure Insurance Limited has already paid Mr B £150 to settle the complaint, as well as 
reimbursing the policy excess, and I think this is fair in the circumstances, so I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service
Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman