DRN-2867094
The complaint
Mr B complains that the end of contract charges he was invoiced by Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) after handing back a car were unfair.
What happened
In February 2017 Mr B entered into a three-year contract hire agreement for a new car 
with MBFS. When the agreement came to an end, Mr B made arrangements to hand the 
car back, this included the car being inspected on behalf of MBFS.
When the car was collected in February 2020 it was inspected while Mr B was present. 
Chargeable damage to the four alloy wheels was noted in the inspections report however, 
as there was wet weather at the time, it was also noted that a second inspection was 
required. Mr B signed the report to show he agreed with its contents. A video and photos 
of the car were also taken at the time.
Five days later the car was inspected for a second time. Damage was reported as being 
found to a rear interior door pad which was considered beyond fair wear and tear. 
Again, a video and photos of the car were taken.
MBFS sent Mr B a damage invoice for the car which was for the refurbishment of two 
alloys and for the damage to the interior door pad. Mr B complained about the charge for 
the door pad as he said this hadnt been included in the first report. He disputed he was 
responsible for that damage.
MBFS didnt uphold his complaint. It said that as the weather had been poor, it had been 
necessary to inspect the car a second time and that it had followed its processes for 
handing the car back correctly. MBFS said the damage was clearly evident in the photos 
and video created during the second inspection and so the end of contract charges would 
stand.
Mr B disagreed with the view of MBFS and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld as she didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence to say the damage to the door pad had been present when the car had 
been collected from Mr B.
MBFS disagreed with our investigators view. It said the car had been driven 28 miles 
back to the place where it was inspected for a second time. There would have been no 
reason for the agent who had collected the car to use the back seat. The first inspection 
had been hampered by the rain so it would be understandable why the agent may have 
missed this damage during that first inspection. MBFS said the evidence provided clearly 
showed damage present to the door pad.
As the parties werent able to agree, the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Where evidence is contradictory or missing then I must decide what I think is the most 
likely thing to have happened. Here, Mr B said that he wasnt responsible for the damage 
found to the door pad and that this must have occurred after hed returned the car. He 
also said that the first and second inspection reports contradicted each other about the 
damage that had been found on the car.
Id seen the video and the photos taken at the first inspection. It was clearly a very wet 
day. The video showed the agent opening the cars back doors and videoing the interior 
however I thought this appeared to be a fairly cursory look. Id also seen that this first 
report stated quite clearly that a second inspection was required. So, I thought it would be 
fair to expect that this agent wouldnt be as thorough as if this was going to be the only 
inspection.
I also didnt think the first inspection video and photos contradicted the evidence of the 
second inspection. While the back doors were opened by the agent during the first 
inspection, I didnt think the condition of the interiors of those doors appeared to have 
been inspected. So, I disagreed with the view of our investigator that the agent would have 
been unlikely to have missed the damage to the door pad when viewing the car. And I 
didnt think I could reasonably say the first inspection provided proof that the damage must 
have happened after the car had been handed back by Mr B.
The second inspection was undertaken five days later, and when the car was inside a 
building, meaning the lighting and conditions were good and certainly far better than at 
the first inspection. The video was longer and, together with the photos that had also 
been taken, clearly showed the damage to the door pad.
Looking at the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidelines, which set the 
accepted industry standard for what is and is not considered fair wear and tear, I 
thought the damage to the door pad was chargeable as it was beyond what would be 
expected from usual wear and tear. I thought the charges were in line with the terms 
and conditions of the hire contract agreement.
Although I accepted there had been a delay between the first and second inspection and 
that the car had been driven a distance of 28 miles, I thought it was more likely than not 
that the damage to the rear door pad occurred during Mr Bs use. I accepted what MBFS 
said that there would have been no reason for the agent to use the back seats of the car 
and so it was unlikely they would have caused damage of this nature during that one trip. I 
also couldnt see how this damage would have arisen while the car was stored pending 
the second inspection. I thought it was far more likely than not that this type of damage 
arose from use over time.
So, for the reasons given above, and although I appreciated my decision would be of 
disappointment to Mr B, I wasnt intending to uphold his complaint. I didnt think MBFS 
had acted unfairly in charging Mr B for the damage to the door pad.
Id seen that Mr B had also been charged for the damage to the alloy wheels but that he 
had accepted this was fair. Originally, he had been charged for the damage to all four 
alloys in the first inspection, but this was reduced to two following the second inspection. I 
thought MBFS had acted reasonably in reaching this decision to reduce those particular 
charges.
Mr B has disagreed with my provisional view. He says that he doesnt believe the damage to 
the door pad is his responsibility as it wasnt present when the car was first inspected. He 
says that the light at the time of the first inspection had been more than adequate to have 
seen this type of damage.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has sent me any new evidence to consider so I have looked again at the 
evidence that had had already been provided. Having done so, and although I appreciate 
this will be of disappointment to Mr B, I havent changed my view.
Mr B says he accepts that it is fair practice for the car to undergo a second inspection. And I 
think that when a car is subjected to two inspections in different conditions then its 
reasonable to expect that damage that wasnt noted before may be noticed on a second 
view. Here, looking at the evidence provided, I am satisfied that the second inspection was 
much more in depth and thorough than the first.
I also cant agree with Mr B that the first inspection ruled out the door pad having suffered 
any damage while it was in his possession. From the video of that inspection, the door pads 
dont appear to have been examined and the interior was subjected to only a very brief view.
As set out above, although I accept the car was subject to use when Mr B handed it back, 
this was one drive of 28 miles to the depot where it was then stored before being inspected 
five days later. I accepted what MBFS has said about the agent who collected the car not 
having any reason to use the back seat. So, looking at the damage I still think its more likely 
than not to have occurred when Mr B had the car.
I am also satisfied that the damage to the arm pad is chargeable as it is beyond fair wear 
and tear as per the BVRLA guidelines.
Mr B has voiced his disappointment at how he was treated by MBFS over the collection of 
the amount due for the end of contract charges. If Mr B has a complaint about MBFSs 
handling of the payment for this invoice, then he will need to raise that with MBFS first to 
allow it to investigate. Until MBFS has had an opportunity to look at this, it would be unfair for 
me to comment.
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman