DRN-2950103
The complaint
Miss J complains that TSB Bank plc didnt apply an interest rate product to her mortgage 
account due to problems with its IT systems, and then misled her about whether the rate 
would be applied and backdated. She says this meant she paid interest at a higher rate for 
two years.
What happened
In late 2018 Miss J contacted TSB about taking out a 1.64% interest rate product. TSB was 
unable to do the product switch due to IT issues it was experiencing at the time.
TSB issued a final response letter in March 2019. It said it had honoured the best rate 
available when Miss J first enquired about a product transfer when calculating backdated 
payments. It said it couldnt reserve interest rates for future applications, and didnt agree 
that Miss J would be charged a higher rate when offered 1.94%. It refunded interest of 
£1,357 (with 8% interest) and paid £250 to Miss J for the upset caused and £50 for any out 
of pocket expenses. Miss J said TSB hadnt understood her complaint or addressed the 
problem with the product switch.
I didnt think TSB had done enough to put matters right. I sent a provisional decision to the 
parties saying that TSB should pay further compensation. I said I didnt think TSB should 
have applied the product switch retrospectively. This was because Miss J told its mortgage 
adviser she wasnt sure a new product was right for her, as she might move house or make 
overpayments.
Miss J didnt agree. She said TSB had given incorrect information over many months to her 
and to this service. She said shed have re-mortgaged elsewhere sooner if she hadnt been 
given assurances that the rate shed chosen in October 2018 would be applied to her 
account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In October 2018 Miss J called TSB about taking out a new interest rate product. The product 
had a two-year term and a rate of 1.64%. Due to IT issues, TSB was unable to do the 
product switch for her.
Ive found some of the information about what happened here unclear. Ive listened to the 
available call recordings, although I understand there were other calls that TSB hasnt been 
able to provide recordings for. Ive summarised what I think the situation is.
Miss J asked TSB about her options in 2018. She said she was thinking about repaying the 
mortgage early or might move house. She asked about temporarily letting out the property, 
increasing her borrowing to extend the property or shortening the remaining term of the 
mortgage. She said she was exploring her options. She was thinking about studying which 
meant moving away for three years, but wanted to keep the property if possible.
TSB said Miss J could take out additional borrowing and stay below a loan to value of 60%, 
which would allow her to access its best rates. There was a discussion about taking out a 
new product, and Miss J referred to a rate of 1.64%. TSB said she should take out a new 
product before asking for consent to let, as the product wouldnt be available after this. 
Miss J said now shed established what her options were she did want to take out an interest 
rate product. The call handler booked a call back for her to agree a product. Unfortunately, 
when Miss J called to take out the new product there was a problem with TSBs systems that 
meant TSB couldnt apply the product switch.
Miss J called in January 2019. She said shed been told the product would be applied as if 
the product switch had been successful when she called in October 2018. And she still 
wanted to reduce the term. She said it wasnt clear this had happened, and shed received a 
message she couldnt hear clearly. TSB said she needed to make an appointment with an 
adviser. Miss J asked about moving house and was told a product would be portable, which 
she was happy with. She said she intended to use savings to pay some money off the 
mortgage. The adviser said she would lose her tracker rate if she took out a product, and 
Miss J said she thought this was worth doing as the lower product rate would allow her to 
pay off the mortgage sooner. An appointment was made with an adviser.
Miss J attended the appointment with an adviser in early February. She said she was 
thinking of buying two new build properties, one to let out. She asked whether the mortgage 
was portable. She said she wasnt sure about taking out a product as she didnt think that 
the 10% ERC free allowance would be enough. Most of the discussion on this call was about 
mortgages for the new properties. Miss J didnt take out a new product on this call.
TSB sent a final response letter in March 2019. It refunded interest to Miss J, offered £250 
compensation for the upset caused, and £50 for any out of pocket expenses.
TSB now says that it backdated the 1.64% interest rate from 1 November 2018 to 31 March 
2019 and refunded overpayments with 8% interest. It says it expected Miss J to contact it to 
take out a new product so it could backdate the rate.
However, the final response letter didnt say this. The letter referred to IT problems in April to 
August 2018, and not when Miss J experienced a problem in October 2018. The letter said 
TSB would honour the best rate available when making the calculation, but the rates referred 
to in the letter were 1.94% and 1.99%. The product Miss J wanted to take out had a rate of 
1.64%. It wasnt clear from the letter that TSB had applied the rate for five months, or what 
rate it applied.
I dont think the final response letter explained clearly what TSB had done, or offered to do, 
to put matters right. I can understand why Miss J says TSB hadnt understood what her 
concerns were. She made repeated attempts to explain her complaint to TSB.
Miss J repaid her mortgage with TSB in April 2020, saying shed found better rates 
elsewhere and lost faith in TSB.What should happen now?
In response to my provisional decision, Miss J said her complaint is about TSB consistently 
misinforming her about whether it would honour the product rate shed intended to take out 
in October 2018. I agree that TSBs response was poor, and I understand why Miss J was  
and is  frustrated. 
Miss J says TSB assured her it would apply the product to her account, as if it had been 
applied in October 2018. This would have put Miss J into the position she would have been 
in if there hadnt been a problem with TSBs systems in late 2018. Although Miss J has 
repaid her mortgage with TSB I could still require it to refund interest as if this had happened 
 that is, apply the 1.64% product rate from November 2018 to the date Miss J repaid her 
mortgage and require TSB to refund the over-paid interest. However, taking everything into 
account, I dont think its fair to require TSB to do this.
TSB applied the product rate for five months, from November 2018 to the end of March 
2019. It refunded interest and added interest at 8% simple. While TSBs final response letter 
was unclear, I think by March 2019 Miss J had enough time to tell TSB she wanted to take 
out a product. From what Miss J has said, I think she didnt know TSB was expecting her to 
do this, as she says shed been assured by TSB this would happen. But Miss J did speak to 
TSBs mortgage advisers, and from what she told TSB, it wasnt clear that she did want to 
take out a product.
In February 2019 Miss J told TSB she wasnt sure that taking out a new product was right for 
her. She said she might want to make overpayments of more than the 10% ERC free 
allowance, and she might sell the property and buy two new build houses in July. Miss J 
says in fact she didnt do this, and is still in the property. But TSB had to take into account 
what Miss J had told it she intended to do. I dont think it would have been fair for TSB to 
apply a product with an early repayment charge when Miss J had told it she intended to 
move house within six months and/or make overpayments. And Miss J had told TSB she 
wasnt sure that taking out a product was right for her. If she changed her mind about this 
and wanted to take out a product she could have contacted TSB again, however theres no 
evidence she did so.
Nonetheless, I agree that TSB was unclear about what was happening. I think the lack of 
clarity about the interest refund and whether or not the 1.64% interest rate product would be 
applied caused difficulties for Miss J. She was making plans and looking into her options, 
and this was made more difficult by the confusion about what was happening with her 
interest rate and product. Ultimately, Miss J re-mortgaged elsewhere. But I think it would be 
fair and reasonable for TSB to pay compensation of £500 (rather than £250) for the trouble 
and upset caused to Miss J.
TSB Bank plc has already refunded some of the interest applied to Miss Js account 
between November 2018 and March 2019, with interest at 8%, and paid £300 for Miss Js 
upset and out of pocket expenses. I intend to order TSB Bank plc to pay a further £250 for 
the upset this matter has caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order TSB Bank plc to pay £250 to Miss J (in 
addition to the compensation it has already paid). 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman