DRN-4470595
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a loan Amplifi Capital (U.K.) Limited (trading as Reevo) 
provided to him. He says that proportionate checks would have shown this loan was 
unaffordable for him and so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Reevo provided Mr C with a loan for £2,000.00 in March 2023. This loan had an APR of 
35.5% and the total amount repayable of £2,714.83, which included interest, fees and 
charges of £714.83, was due to be repaid in 23 monthly instalments of £112.66 and a final 
instalment of £123.65. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr C and Reevo had told us. And he thought that 
Reevo hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly. So he didnt recommend that         
Mr Cs complaint be upheld. Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. 
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why in 
a little more detail.
Reevo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Reevo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr C 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Reevo says it agreed to Mr Cs application after he provided details of his monthly income 
and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on 
a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr C could afford to make the 
repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr C has said he shouldnt have been 
lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr C and Reevo have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Cs first loan with Reevo. Furthermore, Reevo 
has provided an output of the income and expenditure information it obtained at the time of 
Mr Cs application as well as a record of the results of its credit searches.
Reevos searches appear to show that Mr C did have some existing debts. But crucially, 
according to the credit searches, these debts werent excessive compared to Mr Cs income. 
And crucially there was no significant adverse information such as defaults or county court 
judgements (CCJ) recorded against him either. 
Furthermore, when payments for Mr Cs active credit commitments and living expenses, 
were deducted from his income, he does appear to have had sufficient funds left over to 
cover his living expenses and the low monthly payments to this loan. I accept that Mr C 
appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances werent fully reflected either in the 
information hes provided, or the information Reevo obtained at the time. For example, Mr C 
says that he had more debts than this and was in an arrangement to pay.
But Reevo didnt know this and it could only make a reasonable decision based on the 
information it had available at the time. The credit search didnt show some of the credit     
Mr C has referred to or the fact that one of his loan was in an arrangement to pay. Mr C says 
that even if this was the case, Reevo should have seen that his loan balance wasnt 
decreasing as it should have been. 
However, the information obtained wasnt the same as obtaining a full credit file. It was 
simply a snapshot of total balances and a check for adverse information such as missed, 
payments, defaulted accounts or CCJs. And none of this was present on the information 
obtained. As this was a first loan with low monthly payments and there wasnt anything to 
indicate that Mr C might have been experiencing financial difficulty at the time, Im satisfied 
that Reevo didnt have to delve further into Mr Cs circumstances. 
Mr C has made a number of arguments about what the bank statements he has provided in 
support of his complaint show. I accept that it is possible that Reevo might have reached a 
different conclusion on whether to provide this loan had it seen Mr Cs bank statements  
although I note that having now seen them, it maintains that it would not have done. 
Be that as it may, the reality is that looking at Mr Cs bank statements is unnecessary here. 
In my view, given the lack of obvious inconsistencies and most importantly any indication 
that Mr C was struggling financially, in the information Reevo obtained means I dont think 
that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining Mr Cs bank 
statements here. 
So while I appreciate that Mr C is unhappy with how the expenditure on his bank statements 
has been interpreted, since he made his complaint, I dont think that it is a relevant 
consideration for me here. The bank statements didnt play a part in Reevos lending 
decision and proportionate checks didnt require them to have played a part either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Reevo did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr C 
 in my view, the checks carried out, which were proportionate, suggested the relatively low 
monthly repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Reevo treated Mr C unfairly or unreasonably when providing him 
with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint, I would remind Reevo of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event of Mr C has difficulty making 
payments and it chooses to collect payments from him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman