DRN-3785555
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M, Misses M and Mr C complain that AXA XL Insurance Company UK Limited 
has turned down a cancellation claim they made on an insurance policy.
The complaint has been brought by Mr Ms representative, but for ease of reading, Ill refer 
simply to Mr M.
The travel insurer noted in the policy was XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Ltd. However, 
AXA XL is Catlins parent company and so this complaint has been set-up against AXA XL. 
What happened
Mr M held a private client home insurance policy, which included travel insurance. In 
February 2021, AXA XL sent his broker renewal information, which included endorsements 
which had been applied to the insurance contract. These endorsements included an 
exclusion for claims which were caused by Covid-19. Mr Ms policy renewed on 31 March 
2021.
In November 2021, Mr M booked a holiday abroad. Unfortunately, shortly before departure, 
one of his travelling party tested positive for Covid-19. Due to government regulations at the 
time, the travelling party member was required to self-isolate and so the holiday had to be 
cancelled. Mr M made a claim on his travel insurance for the costs of cancellation.
AXA XL turned down the claim. It referred to the endorsement which had been applied to Mr 
Ms policy at renewal. As the cancellation was down to Covid-19, AXA XL concluded that the 
claim was specifically excluded from cover.
Mr M disagreed and so his representative asked us to look into his complaint. Briefly, Mr M 
felt the policy was unclear and covered his situation. He stated that AXAs website 
(axa.co.uk) stated that all policies provided Covid-19 cover. He said that other, comparable 
policies provided cover for claims caused by Covid-19. And as this was a high-net worth 
policy, he had a reasonable expectation that it would be comprehensive.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He felt that the information 
AXA XL had sent to Mr Ms broker at renewal in 2021 clearly highlighted the change in cover 
and that this had been made clear in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
too.  He considered that the circumstances of Mr Ms claim fell squarely within the scope of 
the Covid-19 exclusion. And he noted that the website which Mr M had referred to was 
operated by a separate, regulated financial business, which AXA XL wasnt responsible for. 
In any event though, he didnt think that any content set out on that website had influenced 
Mr Ms decision to renew his policy with AXA XL. So he concluded that itd been fair for AXA 
XL to turn down this claim.
Mr Ms representative disagreed on his behalf. They maintained that given AXAs website 
stated that all policies covered Covid-19, it was reasonable for Mr M to have assumed that 
this would include his AXA XL policy. Hed been advised that this was the best of all policies 
 so if a standard AXA policy covered Covid-19, then they felt it was reasonable to assume 
that a superior, high net worth policy would do so too.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I dont think it was unfair for AXA XL to 
turn down his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ms policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether AXA XL 
treated him fairly.
First, its important I make clear that AXA XL didnt sell Mr M this policy. This was a home 
insurance policy, which included travel cover and which was sold by a broker. If Mr M feels 
he was misinformed as to the level of cover the policy provided, or that the policy was mis-
sold to him at renewal, then hed need to make a separate complaint to his broker about that 
particular issue. 
Next, Ive considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Ms 
contract with AXA XL. Alongside the policy terms, Ive also carefully considered the policy 
schedule and a broker letter which AXA XL issued to Mr Ms broker in February 2021, for 
onward forward to Mr M. Ive looked closely too at the IPID.
Page three of the policy schedule sets out the following:
Endorsements applicable to Your travel
COVID-19 / SARS-CoV-2 Exclusion
Notwithstanding any other provision, no cover is provided under the Your Travel section of 
this policy for any claim, loss, liability, cost or expense of whatever nature directly or 
indirectly arising out of, contributed to, by or resulting from coronavirus disease (COVID- 19), 
severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), or any mutation or 
variation thereof.
This exclusion also applies to any claim, loss, cost or expense of whatever nature directly
or indirectly arising out of, contributed to, by or resulting from:
- any fear or threat (whether actual or perceived) of; or
- any action taken in controlling, preventing, suppressing or in any way relating to any 
outbreak of; Coronavirus disease (COVID-19), Severe acute respiratory syndrome 
coronavirus 2 (SARS- CoV-2), or any mutation or variation thereof.
This exclusion will not apply to cover provided under "Cancellation and Curtailment", on 
pages 38-39 of your policy, if:
- You booked your journey or pre-booked journey before the World Health Organisation 
(WHO) declared a pandemic (on 12th March 2020) or the British Foreign Commonwealth 
Office advised against travel to the destination(s) of Your Journey or Pre-Booked Journey, whichever is the earliest; and
- You were insured by us at the time you booked your journey or pre-booked journey. 
(Emphasis added).
A letter sent to Mr Ms broker, on 25 February 2021, enclosing Mr Ms renewal documents 
included the following:
The following changes to your policy cover are effective from your renewal date. Please 
refer to the
Renewal Schedule; Endorsement applicable to your Home Cover:
 Communicable Disease Exclusion  applicable to all policy sections
 COVID-19 and SARS-CoV2 exclusion  applicable to Your travel policy section.
And the IPID says: What is not Covered  Covid-19 and SATS CoV2.
Mr Ms policy does provide cancellation cover in the event of a policyholders illness, or 
compulsory quarantine. In this case, theres no dispute that an insured member of the 
travelling party was diagnosed with an illness was and required to self-isolate.
However, I also think the endorsement which was added to Mr Ms travel cover makes it 
clear that any claims caused by Covid-19 are excluded from cover. This was a commercial 
decision which AXA XL was entitled to make  it isnt bound to offer cover on the same 
terms as its competitors  or as other branches of the AXA group.
And I dont agree with Mr M that the cover is worded in an unclear or ambiguous way. In my 
view, the endorsement makes it clear that the Covid-19 exclusion wont apply if a 
policyholder had booked a trip before 12 March 2020 or the date the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office advised against travel (for most destinations, this was 17 March 
2020) and a policyholder was insured by AXA AL at that time. In this case, while Mr M was 
insured by AXA AL when he booked the trip, it wasnt booked until November 2021, over 18 
months after the World Health Organisation had declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. So I 
think it was fair and reasonable for AXA XL to conclude that the Covid-19 exclusion applied 
to the circumstances of his claim.
Id add too that I think the endorsement and exclusion were sufficiently highlighted in the 
renewal documentation, which appears to have been sent over a month before the renewal 
date, to bring them to Mr M (and his brokers) attention. As such, I think Mr M had enough 
information ahead of renewal to decide whether or not the policy was still right for him. And if 
it didnt provide the Covid-19 cover he wanted, it was open to him to look elsewhere for 
travel insurance.
Mr M strongly feels that as AXAs website says that all policies provide cancellation cover if a 
policyholder becomes unwell with Covid-19, then this should reasonably be applied to AXA 
XLs policy too. Ive thought about this. However, even if I were to take the view that this 
website included AXA XLs policies (and I make no finding on this point) Ive seen no 
evidence that any website wording Mr M saw induced him to take out the AXA XL policy. It 
seems more likely that he checked this particular website after hed already come to need to 
make a claim.  Instead, I think it was most likely that he relied on the renewal information he 
was given when he decided to renew the policy in February 2021. So I dont think I could 
fairly find AXA XL has acted unfairly here either.Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Ms position, as I appreciate hes been left 
significantly out of pocket, I dont find there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M, Mrs M, 
Misses M and Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman