DRN-1999963
The complaint
Mr E complains that he was mis-sold a Privilege Premier Account (PPA) in October 2009 by 
The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E believes the PPA sale was done over the phone, while Co-op doesnt know how it was 
done. Both parties agree that it was an information only sale, that is, Co-op didnt 
recommend the PPA to Mr E or advise him to take it out. 
So, the requirement on Co-op was to provide enough information about the PPA for Mr E to 
make an informed decision about whether he wanted it.
Mr E says that Co-op just changed his account from a fee free one to a PPA and he didnt 
agree to pay a monthly fee for it.
Co-op says it doesnt have any records from the sale, but it believes it would have followed 
its usual process and provided Mr E with the information he needed, and he chose to take it 
out.
Its not possible for me to know what was said during the sale as I wasnt there, and the two 
parties say contradictory things about the discussion.
Mr Es main complaint is not that he didnt know he had the PPA or what it was, but rather 
that he didnt agree to paying for it.
In my view Mr E was aware that he didnt have to pay for an account as hed previously had 
a fee free one. Hed also previously had an account with Lloyds where he was paying a 
monthly fee for a similar set of benefits to those of the PPA.
So, I think Mr E was knowledgeable about how both free and fee-paying accounts worked. In 
my view I dont think its likely hed have expected to get the PPA benefits for free. I think its 
more likely than not that he would have quickly noticed the £13 a month fees on his account 
and queried them if hed not wanted the PPA. And I think its more likely than not he received 
multiple items of correspondence over the years that showed clearly or by implication that he 
was paying a monthly fee for the account.
So, although I know this will be disappointing for Mr E, my conclusion is that its more likely 
than not that Mr E did agree to paying a monthly fee for the PPA, and so I cant uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman