DRN-2071274
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax):
to set up a drawdown pensions policy, take his tax-free cash (TFC) and make 
monthly withdrawals from his pension; and
at the same time set up a separate stakeholder plan and make monthly payments 
into it.
He says hes lost out financially as a result.
What happened
Mr G had a pension policy with Equitable Life. In 2003, following the near collapse of 
Equitable Life, he discussed his pension options with Bank of Scotland. Given Equitable 
Lifes financial difficulties, Mr G was keen to transfer his pension away from it.
Mr G was around 50 years of age at the time. The rules in 2003, allowed Mr G to begin 
taking pension benefits from aged 50. The maturity value of Mr Gs Equitable Life 
pension was £72,379, if benefits were taken immediately. 
Had Mr G wanted to transfer his Equitable pension pot to another provider with his 
benefits deferred to a point in the future, the surrender value of his policy was less 
(around £13,340 less). The documents from the time recorded that a verbal surrender 
quote of £59,039 was provided. This was because Equitable Life was applying a 
transfer penalty on deferred pensions.
Documents from the time of the sale show that Mr G was in full time employment and 
that he intended to retire at age 60.
Bank of Scotland produced a Pension Transfer Report. This showed that if Mr G took out a 
drawdown policy with his £72,379 maturity value, he was eligible to take 25% TFC. The 
report also said there were rules about the minimum and maximum amount of pension that 
must be withdrawn annually from the plan. The minimum drawdown amount at the time 
was £1,140 per annum (equal to £95 per month). A stakeholder pension plan was also set 
up for Mr G, with a net monthly contribution of around £400 per month into the plan. 
Mr G complained to Bank of Scotland about the advice hed received, after re-examining his 
position when he approached retirement at 65. He stated that the advice to withdraw from 
his pension at age 50, and also pay into another plan, didn't make sense given he had at 
least ten years to retirement, was in full-time employment, had a small mortgage and no 
other debts. He said he didnt require the lump sum as he had savings. He said as he was 
working, the income withdrawal from the drawdown policy each month was taxed, which 
didnt make sense when he was then paying £410 per month into his stakeholder pension. 
He said the advice was clearly not suitable for his circumstances, and the only thing it 
achieved was rescuing his investment from Equitable Life. 
Bank of Scotland didn't uphold the complaint, Mr G brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint. Having considered Mr Gs particular 
circumstances and objectives at the time of advice, our investigator concluded that the 
advice Bank of Scotland gave Mr G in 2003 didnt appear unsuitable given the difference 
in Equitable Lifes surrender and maturity values and his objective of moving his pension 
away from Equitable Life. 
Our investigator concluded that, if he wanted to move away, Mr G effectively had two 
choices - either take the £59,039 surrender value and pay it in to a plan which he could 
continue to make ongoing contributions into. Or to take the £72,379 maturity value, but 
have to take immediate benefits (as Mr G did). to avoid Equitable applying a penalty 
Taking immediate benefits, also brought with it a requirement of a minimum withdrawal 
amount per year.  
Our investigator thought that, met with these two choices, most people would select the 
higher maturity value option. He thought it likely that Mr G had made that choice at the 
time, but due to the passage of time, his reasons for doing so had become less clear to 
him since.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view and asked for his case to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not going to uphold Mr Gs complaint. My reasons are essentially the 
same as our investigators, which I will summarise below.
Mr Gs primary objective seemed to be to rescue his pension from Equitable Lifes control. 
Given he was 50 and able to take immediate benefits, this gave him two options. Younger 
policy holders wouldnt have had the first option available to them. Equitable Life was 
applying a penalty to surrenders, presumably because these members potentially had more 
time to retirement to make up the difference and it wanted to encourage members to keep 
their pension with it.
Option 1 - was Mr G could take immediate benefits (the maturity value option of £72,379); 
or 
Option 2 -  he could take deferred benefits (the surrender value option of £59,039). 
The maturity value option meant Mr Gs transfer value was around £13,340 more. But, it 
also meant he had to take immediate benefits. He took 25% TFC, which he says was 
around £18,173. So, the net effect was, even after taking this TFC lump sum, his pension 
pot was only worth around £5,000 less, than if he had taken the surrender value option.
By taking the maturity option, Mr G was required to take a minimum amount of income 
each year from his drawdown pension. Alternatively, he couldve taken out an annuity. But I 
can see that wasnt recommended, presumably because Mr G wasnt at that time looking to 
increase his income. So, it seems to me that having opted for the maturity option, the 
pension was set up in an appropriate way so that he only took the minimum amount of 
income he had to take.Mr G was ten years from retirement. He couldnt make ongoing pension contributions into 
the drawdown plan. He said he had disposable income and it seems was able to pay 
around £410 into his pension each month. So, I think it likely that Mr G wanted a pension 
arrangement to make ongoing tax efficient pension contributions into. Stakeholder pension 
plans have low running costs, and given his time to retirement, I cant see that opening a 
stakeholder plan was inappropriate for his needs at the time.
So, I cant see that Bank of Scotlands advice was unsuitable, given Mr Gs circumstances 
and objectives. I therefore make no award.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman