DRN-4312463
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined her claim
under her mobile phone insurance policy following loss of her phone.
What happened
Mrs M had taken out an insurance policy with Great Lakes in January 2023. Mrs M then lost
her phone in early February 2023 and she claimed for the loss under her policy. Great Lakes
declined her claim and accused Mrs M of submitting a falsified invoice. It also cancelled her
policy. Mrs M was unhappy and wanted a replacement phone. She was also dissatisfied with
the investigation process and delays in communication and wanted an apology due to the
accusation. Mrs M therefore complained to Great Lakes however it maintained its position.
Mrs M was unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and referred her complaint to this
service. The relevant investigator upheld Mrs Ms complaint. He considered that whilst some
of Great Lakes concerns might be justified, he didnt consider that these concerns related to
the validity of this claim. The investigator wasnt persuaded that Mrs M had herself falsified
an invoice and was satisfied that it reflected the price, despite it being higher than the
recommended retail price. The investigator thought that Great Lakes should cover Mrs Ms
claim and that it should remove any adverse information it recorded against her.
Great Lakes disagreed with the investigators view. The matter was therefore referred to
me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In July 2023, I issued a provisional 
decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Mrs Ms complaint as 
follows; - The key issue for me to determine is whether Great Lakes applied the terms and 
conditions of the mobile phone policy in a fair and reasonable manner in declining Mrs Ms 
claim. On a provisional basis, I dont consider that it acted unfairly in doing so. In reaching 
this provisional decision, Ive also considered the parties submissions as summarised 
below.
Mrs M said that shed correctly answered questions asked by Great Lakes when being
interviewed as a part of the claim investigation. Shes said that shed looked at other
insurance options, but an alternative provider only insured up to £1500 and, as her phone
cost more than this, she didnt continue with that option. She agreed shed insured different
gadgets with the alternative provider but didnt consider that this was relevant. She said she
hadnt been asked about a claim shed made on her other policy, and it related to a different
phone, so there was no double claim. She had received a replacement phone in relation to
the claim on her other policy, had given it away, and considered she had the right to do what
she wished with her own belongings.
Mrs M also contacted the alternative insurance provider and it confirmed that it hadnt
refused to insure this phone. As to her proof of purchase, she contacted the relevant
company and it explained that the cost, at just over £1,500 was the gross amount, and the
amount that she was actually paying through her employers salary sacrifice scheme, was
approximately £250 less. She confirmed that the invoice was therefore correct.
As to Great Lakes investigation process, Mrs M considered that when it conducted
interviews, it should ask more precise and structured questions. She was frustrated that the
claims process and responses had taken so long, and that Great Lakes had failed to update
her. She said that one representative had hung up on her call. Mrs M said that as a
professional, she valued her integrity and dignity and that the process had caused a lot of
stress. She said the reason why shed taken out insurance was to have peace of mind that
her valuables would be covered in the event of loss. She said that; Being labelled a fraud is
a big deal for me. I am dealing with so many health issues [and described a
condition].so having to deal with this stress is just unacceptable.
I now turn to what Great Lakes has said about the complaint. It referred to discrepancies in
Mrs Ms version of events during interview. Great Lakes had asked why the identity number
of the phone had been searched on a national database at the relevant time, and it didnt
consider her response to be satisfactory. Initially Great Lakes thought that the alternative
insurer had refused cover, however it later accepted that this wasnt the case. Great Lakes
said that Mrs M explained at the end of the interview that shed made a claim for loss of her
previous phone in January 2023 and gave the replacement phone to her sister who was
abroad. It said that the evidence it had received discredited the answers that Mrs M had
given on various matters.
Great Lakes said it had forensically checked the proof of purchase document provided by
Mrs M and it proved to be a non-genuine document. Great Lakes said that the identity
number of the phone had been added to the document by the insured in a different font. It
therefore considered that Mrs M had provided a false and misleading purchase invoice and
said: This is clear manipulation of the document and grounds for declinature.
The starting point for my consideration of this matter is the policy itself which forms the basis
of the insurance contract between the insurer and the customer. I note that loss of a mobile
phone is covered by the policy in principle. The policy does include standard provisions
however, one of which relates to fraud. The relevant provision states, If any fraudulent or
misleading claim is made or if any fraudulent or misleading means are used under this
insurance, you will not be allowed to continue with your claim and your policy will be
cancelled with immediate effect and no refund will be returned.
Great Lakes referred to the proof of purchase document supplied by Mrs M. I have seen
evidence of the checks it carried out. Having considered this evidence, I have no reason to
doubt that the proof of purchase document was tampered with to add the identity number of
the phone that Mrs M alleged was lost. This identity number was added in a slightly different
font to the original document. However, there appears to have been an attempt by the 
person who added the identity number to match the original font, so that the recipient would
be led to believe that this was part of the original invoice. On the balance of probabilities, I
consider that it was Mrs M, or a person closely connected to Mrs M, who manipulated this
document. This misleading document was provided to Great Lakes by Mrs M to support her
claim. This raises legitimate concerns as to whether this invoice genuinely related to the
phone of this identity number.
I appreciate that Mrs M had evidence that she purchased a phone of the same description
and that she also had a box showing the same identity number. However, on a provisional
basis, I consider that, in the light of the manner of manipulation of the document, Mrs M used
fraudulent or misleading means and information in making her claim. Whilst the purpose of
tampering with the proof of purchase is not known, the fact that this important document was
manipulated in this way is sufficient to invalidate the whole claim under the fraud provisions
of the policy. On a provisional basis, I therefore consider it likely that Mrs M acted with the
intent to obtain a benefit she wasnt otherwise entitled to.
I also consider that there is supporting evidence which places doubt on the credibility of MrsMs evidence. Less than a month prior to the alleged loss of Mrs Ms phone, it transpired that
Mrs M had lost another phone and the manner of loss appeared to be identical to that
described in the current claim. That phone was duly replaced by the alternative provider. The
timing and surrounding circumstances of the loss of that phone provides significant context
for the current claim. In addition, Mrs M conceded that when she was taking out insurance in
January 2023, she searched providers as she was concerned about the length of time it took
to process claims. On the balance of probabilities, this pre-occupation with the claims
process shortly before loss of her phone supports Great Lakes concerns about the claim.
The manipulated invoice together with these additional factors provides a strong indicator of
fraud. In such circumstances, declining a claim and cancelling the policy would be regarded
as a course of action consistent with the Insurance Act 2015 as well as standard insurance
policy terms and conditions. Even if a part of the claim story is genuine, the genuine aspects
shouldnt be separated from the non-genuine aspects.
On a provisional basis, I therefore conclude that these combined factors raise significant and
legitimate concerns about Mrs Ms claim and that these concerns meet the services high bar
regarding insurance fraud. In the circumstances, and again on a provisional basis, I dont
consider that Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mrs Ms claim.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Mrs M and Great Lakes if they had any further 
comments or evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes didnt provide any further comments or evidence in response to the provisional 
decision, whereas Mrs M provided further submissions as follows. 
Mrs M said that shed been suffering from health issues since January 2023 and wanted to 
focus on her health. She said shed submitted all the evidence she had to prove that her 
claim was genuine but said that going further would be a lost cause, even if she went to 
court as she felt that the court would consider the decision of the ombudsman. Mrs M added 
that shed been with the relevant insurer for more than 10 years but never made a claim and 
said It is just unfortunate that I lost my phones for a short period of time. I am also very 
frustrated with how long my claims process has taken only to be rejected.
Mrs M said that she hoped that the ombudsman has listened to how Great Lakes conducted 
the interview as I never tried to hide any information from them. She said that in fact the 
interview was just about to end before the interviewer remembered to ask whether shed 
been rejected for insurance previously, and it was this that led her to mention the separate 
insurance claim shed made in January 2023 and that the replacement phone was given 
away to her sister as Mrs M now had the latest phone, and never anticipated that she would 
lose it. Mrs M said that if shed tried to hide that fact, then she could have just not answered 
as she thought it was irrelevant to her current claim. She felt that from reading the 
provisional decision, the ombudsman was on the side of the insurer. 
Ive noted that Mrs M stated that shes already supplied all the evidence she had to support 
her position. Mrs M has therefore provided no further evidence in support of her complaint. I 
listened carefully to the interview and noted the way in which it was conducted. I also 
appreciate that Mrs M herself volunteered information about the second unconnected claim. 
Nevertheless, as stated in the provisional decision, even if a part of the claim story is 
genuine, the genuine aspects shouldnt be separated from the non-genuine aspects. It was 
right and proper that Mrs M herself provided this information as it was relevant to the claim context and was likely to have been discovered by Great Lakes during its investigation in 
any event.
Finally, the question of whether the insurer can be said to have acted fairly and reasonably 
in declining a claim is not the same as a definitive finding of fraud. In this case however, 
whilst I have sympathy for Mrs M regarding her recent health issues,  on the balance of 
probabilities, I conclude that Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. I 
confirm that this final decision has been reached on an independent basis and entirely on 
the basis of the available evidence. In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the 
provisional decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the matter, and I dont uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint and I dont require Great 
Lakes Insurance SE to take any further steps in response to her complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman