DRN-4256744
The complaint
Mrs H complains about U K Insurance Limited, trading as Natwest One Home Insurance 
(UKI) and the decision to decline her claim for alternative accommodation (AA) costs 
following a fire at her flat.
Mrs H has been represented during the claim and complaint process by an independent loss 
adjustor, who Ill refer to as R. And R was appointed by Mr C, who holds Enduring Power of 
Attorney to take decisions on Mrs Hs behalf. As both Mr C and R have been acting on 
behalf of Mrs H, for ease of reference I will refer to any actions taken, and comments made, 
by them both as Mrs H throughout the decision.
What happened
Mrs H held a contents insurance policy, underwritten by UKI. This policy was held alongside 
a separate building insurance policy in place to insure her property, which was a leasehold 
flat. The buildings insurance policy was underwritten by a separate insurer altogether, who 
Ill refer to as Z.
Unfortunately, in April 2021, Mrs Hs flat was deemed uninhabitable due to significant 
damage caused by a fire. So, due to Mrs Hs age and needs, following her release from 
hospital she moved into a nursing home while the repairs to her flat were completed. These 
repairs were completed in December 2021, but Mrs H remained in the nursing home and the 
flat was sold a short time later.
During this process, Mrs H made a claim on her contents insurance policy with UKI. Part of 
this claim related to the costs of the AA she incurred residing at the nursing home, while her 
flat was repaired. But UKI declined this aspect of the claim, stating that as AA had already 
been claimed for against the buildings insurance policy provided by Z, they didnt think they 
were responsible for reimbursement of the AA costs. Mrs H was unhappy with this, so she 
raised a complaint.
Mrs H felt the AA section of the policy provided by UKI was worded more favourably and 
included a higher insured limit. So, as Mrs Hs contents were damaged during the fire, she 
felt she should be able to claim on her content policy for AA costs she incurred, irrespective 
of whether shed claim for these costs through another claim with Z.  
UKI responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the flat was uninhabitable 
due to the damage caused to the building, rather than the contents. So, they thought any 
reimbursement of the AA costs Mrs H incurred would be the responsibility of Z and not 
themselves. Because of this, they thought their decision to decline this aspect of the claim 
was fair and they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mrs H remained unhappy 
with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained our services 
approach in similar situations is that, where a property has been deemed uninhabitable due 
to damage to the building itself, wed expect the buildings insurer to take the lead and 
manage the AA claim. So, as Mrs H had made an AA claim with Z, the buildings insurer, 
they thought UKIs decision to decline the AA aspect of the claim she made with them 
directly was a fair one. And because of this, they didnt think UKI needed to do anything 
more.
UKI agreed and provided no further comments. But Mrs H didnt agree. She didnt think the 
fact a claim had been made on the building insurance provided by Z, which was held in the 
management company of her buildings name, should have any impact on the claim she 
made with UKI. And she maintained the wording of the policy provided by UKI, and the limit 
it included, was more favourable to her. So, she felt she should be able to claim on both 
policies and because of this, she thought UKI should reimburse her the costs she incurred, 
up to the policy limit plus interest to recognise the length of time shed been without access 
to these funds. As Mrs H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs H. I recognise Mrs Hs 
flat was damaged in a fire that was caused through no fault of her own. And I appreciate the 
significant upset and inconvenience this wouldve caused Mrs H, which no doubt wouldve 
been made worse by Mrs Hs vulnerabilities and her caring needs. I also recognise Mrs H 
took out the insurance policy with UKI to help assist her both practically and financially in 
situations such as the one she found herself in. So, when UKI declined to accept the AA 
aspect of Mrs Hs claim, and this left Mrs H at a financial loss, I can understand why shed 
feel unfairly treated and raise a complaint with the goal of ensuring UKI overturned their 
original decision.
But for me to say UKI should do something differently, such as accept the AA aspect of the 
claim, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied 
UKI acted unfairly and unreasonably when declining the claim. And when deciding this, Ive 
took into consideration the terms of the policy, standard industry approach and what I think 
another insurer would most likely have done, in a similar situation.
Ive seen the terms of the policy UKI provided. And Im satisfied that AA cover is included 
within these. I also recognise why Mrs H feels the policy is more favourable to her, based on 
the policy term which explains Alternative accommodation where appropriate will be 
reflective of the individuals needs considering Mrs H felt it necessary to go into a nursing 
home, rather than a flat similar to the one that was damaged in the fire.
But I do have to consider the fact Mrs H had access to separate buildings and contents 
insurance policies, due to her flat being a leasehold property. In situations such as this, our 
approach, which falls in line with what is expected of the industry, states that we would 
expect the buildings insurer to take the lead and manage the AA claim. And when doing so, 
the buildings insurer would have the option of obtaining an appropriate contribution from the 
content insurer in the background.
This is because in general, a property is usually deemed uninhabitable due to repair worked 
required to the building itself. While this isnt always the case, Im satisfied it is in this 
individual circumstance, as it appears there were several flats damaged in the fire that deemed Mrs Hs flat uninhabitable. So, while Ive no doubt the contents of her flat were also 
damaged in the fire, I dont think it was the replacement of these contents that rendered the 
flat uninhabitable. Instead, I think it was most likely the damage to the building itself. And, as 
Z were responsible for managing the repairs to the building and how long this process would 
take, I think it is Z who is responsible for reimbursing the AA costs, as their repair work 
directly impacted the length of time Mrs H was in AA. 
So, in this situation, I think the AA claim and the way it was settled was ultimately the 
responsibility of Z, and not UKI. And its been confirmed by Mrs H that Z has settled Mrs Hs 
claim for AA costs, but at a much lower amount then she feels is fair.
While I appreciate Mrs Hs unhappiness with the way Z settled her claim, this would be a 
separate issue that would need to be investigated separately. And importantly, I dont think 
UKI are in any way responsible for this decision or Zs decision not to work with UKI when 
settling the claim as they did. 
And I dont think Mrs Hs unhappiness with the offer made by Z means UKI should then 
accept the AA claim shes made with them separately. While I do appreciate the wording of 
Mrs Hs policy with UKI may appear to be worded more favourably, with a higher policy limit, 
I dont think this alters the fact that it wasnt damage to Mrs Hs contents that was the 
primary reason for the flat being uninhabitable. So, as per our services approach and that of 
what is expected across the industry, I dont think I can say UKI have acted unfairly, or 
unreasonably, when declining the AA aspect of Mrs Hs claim on this occasion. And so, I 
dont think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint about U K Insurance 
Limited trading as Natwest One Home Insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman