DRN-2642441
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, would not raise a chargeback when 
products he purchased were not as described. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a chargeback scheme.
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action.
The scheme, in this case, is operated not by Aqua but by MasterCard and the scheme 
operator sets strict rules under which claims can be made.
I understand Mr B says he received incorrect advice about the compatibility of the paint he 
purchased with the glitter that was to be used with it. But he wasnt paying for that advice 
and as he received the goods he paid for there was no rule under which a claim could be 
made by Aqua to the chargeback scheme operator.
I dont think Aqua were being unreasonable when rejecting his claim and it follows that Im 
not persuaded Aqua should refund the cost of redecorating. 
I can see that when Mr B called Aqua in relation to his claim the service he received was 
unsatisfactory. They should have arranged a call back for him. Aqua have offered a payment 
of £15 in recognition of this mistake. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances and Im 
therefore not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman