DRN-2666000
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Ms K holds with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Ms K says 
Barclays has unfairly increased the balance by £50,000.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Ms K 
being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words, rounding all of the figures 
involved, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, 
it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the 
outcome of the complaint. 
At the start of the sequence of events that have led to the complaint, Ms K owed a little over 
£351,000 on her mortgage; she was intending to repay this in stages. The mortgage 
received a credit of £50,000, and soon after, Barclays sent Ms K a redemption quotation for 
around £301,000. A further credit of £250,000 was then made, and Ms K believed she now 
owed around £51,000. However, Barclays had, by then, removed the £50,000, saying it was 
a cheque that had subsequently been returned unpaid by the bank it was drawn on. 
Ms K says this is wrong; she maintains that aside from any cheque, a separate transfer of 
£50,000 was made that should not have been removed. She also points to the redemption 
quotation for £301,000 which specifically stated it didnt include any uncleared items.
When Ms K referred her complaint to us, our investigator didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong. Ms K asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function here; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Its for me to decide when I have enough information and evidence to determine a complaint, 
and its for me to decide how much weight I should attach to the evidence I do have. We 
reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, the following are the conclusions Ive come to along with the reasons for 
them.
The available evidence points to only one amount of £50,000 having been credited to Ms Ks 
mortgage account. This was a cheque (apparently issued by a family member) that was later 
returned unpaid by the bank on which it had been drawn. Its normal banking practice to 
credit an account with the value of a cheque immediately, on the premise that the credit will 
be removed if the cheque is subsequently returned unpaid. In that context, Barclays hasnt 
done anything wrong; its done exactly what Id expect it to do in this situation.
The complicating factor is that Ms K was issued with a redemption statement during the 
interval of time between the cheque being credited to, and then removed from, her mortgage 
account. At the time of issue, the value of the cheque was on the account, hence the 
quotation was for £301,000. But once the cheque was returned, the credit was removed, so 
her balance again became £351,000, and the subsequent payment of £250,000 only 
reduced the balance to £101,000, not £51,000.
Ill deal next with Ms Ks point about what the quotation said about uncleared items; on face 
value, Ms K can be forgiven for misunderstanding what the terms cleared and uncleared 
mean in banking, as theyre widely misinterpreted, even within the industry itself.
When a cheque is paid to an account, the receiving bank will credit the account with the 
value of the cheque while it seeks confirmation from the drawing bank that the cheque will 
be honoured. Historically, that usually took about three days, so to be on the safe side, the 
receiving bank wouldnt allow the account holder use of the cheque funds. 
During that period, the cheque is referred to as uncleared. If the three-day period passes 
without any notification from the drawing bank that the cheque wont be paid, the receiving 
bank allows access and the cheque is now deemed to be cleared for use. But just because 
that has happened, that doesnt mean the cheque cant still be returned unpaid. 
Occasionally, a cheque will be returned unpaid after the clearance period has passed, and 
the receiving bank can, and will, still remove the credit from the account. Thats what 
appears to have happened in Ms Ks case; the redemption quotation included the £50,000 
cheque as cleared funds, because the clearance period had passed, but then the drawing 
bank returned the cheque after the quotation had been generated.  Again, Barclays hasnt 
done anything I wouldnt expect it to do; its just that the timing and sequence of events was 
unfortunate.
Lastly, Ive thought hard about Ms Ks argument that another credit of £50,000 was made, 
not by cheque but by transfer. Ms K wasnt happy that our investigator asked for evidence of 
this, including who sent it, when, and by what means. But he was right to do so. As the party 
bringing the complaint, Ms K has to present a case that is more likely on the balance of 
probabilities, than the case presented by the business. On the point about another £50,000 
credit, Ms K simply hasnt done that.
If Ms K has a real and substantive belief that a valid credit of £50,000 is missing from her 
mortgage account, it is for her to provide substantive evidence of it and, in addition, arrange 
for the account to be audited by a suitably qualified and independent party. The evidence of the audit could then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but not as 
the basis for this one. I make the latter point because Barclays would need to be presented 
with the finished audit first, and be given the opportunity to consider and respond to it. 
Ms K would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that were to her 
detriment, we would then expect Barclays to reimburse any reasonable cost of the audit as 
well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as things stand, 
theres no evidence that gives me any reason to think that any validly credited funds are 
missing from Ms Ks mortgage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman