DRN-3493184
The complaint
Miss H complains that Allianz Business Services Limited mis-sold her a commercial 
insurance policy at renewal, as this policy no longer provided cover for her COVID-19 related 
claim.
What happened
Miss H operated a business I shall refer to as B. Miss H has now incorporated this 
business, forming a limited company. However, as the activities relates to Miss H as a sole 
trader, this complaint is hers rather than the limited companys. 
Some years ago, Miss H had taken out a commercial insurance policy to provide B with 
cover, including for business interruption. The policy had renewed several times before the 
COVID-19 pandemic. The policy that had renewed in 2019 apparently provided Miss H with 
cover relevant to the pandemic and I understand that she was able to successfully claim for 
the losses she incurred in 2020. 
However, by the time the policy renewed in December 2020, the wording of the policy had 
been amended. And the result of this was that her claim for the third lockdown was declined 
by her insurer. 
Miss H was unhappy that Allianz Business Services Limited, trading as Premierline, had not 
made her aware of this change. Premierline said that the fact the policy had changed was 
included in documents made available to Miss H and did not uphold her complaint. It seems 
that in responding to her complaint, Premierline also sent Miss H a letter addressed to 
another individual. 
Miss H referred her complaint to our Service. But our Investigator did not recommend the 
complaint be upheld. He did think that Premierline had not met its obligations during the sale 
of the policy. However, he was not persuaded that Miss H wouldve taken any different 
action had things happened as they should have. So, he didnt think there was anything for 
Premierline to do to put things right. He also said that whilst Premierline had made an error 
in the letter it had sent, there was no evidence that Miss Hs data had been breached or that 
this had caused any issue with Miss Hs ability to pursue this matter. 
As Miss H remained unsatisfied, her complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the financial impact COVID-19 restrictions 
have had on Miss H, I wont be upholding her complaint. My reasons are substantially the 
same as the Investigators.
I agree that there are some obvious failings in Premierlines actions when the policy was 
being renewed. The fact that Miss H had made several successful claims on her previous 
years policy, that Premierline ought to have been aware would not be successful under the 
renewed policy, means there was a significant change to the cover being provided. 
Premierline has said that details of this were included in a document that was made 
available to Miss H and that she had been told to read all the documents. But I dont 
consider this was enough to highlight what was such a significant change, especially given 
Miss Hs circumstances.
However, the question is what Miss H wouldve done had she been informed of this change 
to the policy. She has said that she wouldve shopped around. But I dont consider she 
wouldve been able to find a policy in November/December 2020 that wouldve provided 
cover in relation to COVID-19 claims for business interruption. The insurance industry as a 
whole had taken steps to remove such cover from their policies. 
Miss H says that she was prevented from finding a cheaper policy. However, not only did 
she not take any action in relation to the renewal of the policy until quite late, I note that 
there is no evidence either that she has previously shopped around for a cheaper policy at 
previous renewals nor that she wouldve been able to find a markedly cheaper policy that 
met her remaining needs. 
Ultimately, whilst Premierline did not meet its obligations when selling the renewal of 
Miss Hs policy in November/December 2020, I am not satisfied that Miss H was materially 
prejudiced by these failings. In considering complaints, where something has gone wrong, 
my role is to put the parties back in the position they would have been in had the error not 
occurred. In this case, I dont consider the position of the parties would have been materially 
different had Premierline done what it should have. So, it follows that I dont consider there 
to be any action necessary to rectify this position. 
Miss H has also raised concerns about receiving a letter addressed to a third party. I do 
appreciate her concerns and I agree that breaches of data are a serious thing. Again though, 
I am required to consider whether any failing of Premierline in its communications has had a 
material impact on Miss H. She has not provided any evidence to support her suggestion 
that her own data has been breached. So, whilst I appreciate she may have been worried 
about this, I dont consider it has been shown that Premierline needs to compensate Miss H. 
If the third partys data has been breached, that is a matter for them and Premierline. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman