DRN-3830451
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC refuses to refund payments he says he made to 
an investment scam company.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise the
key events here.
In May 2020 Mr F found an advertisement online for a company called RO Investing (X). Mr 
F tells us he was persuaded to invest with X as it promised substantial returns. Mr F paid a 
total of £4,290 into the investment with X and withdrew a total of £2,593.54. Meaning Mr F 
had lost £1,696.46 of the amount he had invested.
Mr F approached Barclays and explained he had fallen victim to a scam, and Barclays 
temporarily credited Mr Fs account for the payments he had made to X, it requested a 
chargeback from X for the payments Mr F had made to it.
X responded to Barclays request for a chargeback and provided evidence which included a 
signed risk disclosure form, a full list of the trades that had been placed, and confirmation of 
its permission to operate in the United Kingdom at the time of the transactions. X also 
showed evidence that Mr F was allowed to withdraw £2,593.54.
Due to the evidence provided by X Barclays was unable to obtain a refund of the payments 
Mr F had made. X had shown evidence that it had provided the requested service to X and 
that the trades made were not successful. 
Barclays therefore debited Mr Fs account for the amount it had previously credited him in 
relation to the chargeback request.
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They 
concluded that Mr F didnt have the required evidence for Barclays to have successfully 
processed chargeback claims. Our Investigator also concluded that Barclays were not 
responsible for preventing bad bargains, and there was no evidence Mr F had been 
scammed.
As Mr F disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment trading scam is in fact 
a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses.
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud
Act 2006).
In simpler terms, some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could 
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this does 
not always amount to fraud.
When considering this for Mr Fs case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive
searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities
regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place
to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being
fraudulent or unauthorised.
Upon checking both, its my understanding that X had no adverse information reported about 
them at the time Mr F authorised his payments to them. What I have noted is that they were 
regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC) at the time of Mr 
Fs payments with passporting rights through the FCA - which meant they could offer 
services to UK customers. It would be unusual for a scammer to comply with all the various 
requirements of becoming regulated. It also means that Mr F may have the option to pursue 
a complaint against X directly  as theyre ultimately who he says caused his loss  and he 
may also wish to consider whether he has the option to pursue this through the Financial 
Ombudsman in Cyprus if no direct resolution is reached.
Ive noted the FCA restricted Xs ability to offer regulated services in the UK from December 
2022 (after Mr F made all of his payments). But Im not persuaded thats enough to show
they scammed Mr F. The FCA may remove authority from companies whose actions fall 
short of being a fraud or scam. And Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Mr Fs funds
werent genuinely invested, nor that the FCA has deemed X a scam.
Without there being a scam to protect against, theres no obligation for Barclays to intervene
with Mr Fs authorised payment instructions. Its not expected to protect against bad 
bargains, nor to give investment advice.
Barclays actions when Mr F reported his concerns
Barclays are bound by the card scheme providers rules which in this case is Visa. And whilst
there is no right to a chargeback, I generally think its good practice to raise one where 
there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Barclays requested a chargeback for the funds Mr F sent to X but this request was 
defended. X provided evidence that Mr F had signed a risk disclosure form, trades were 
made on his trading account and Mr F was able to make withdrawals from X when they were 
requested. Therefore, X demonstrated it had provided the service Mr F had requested and 
the chargeback request was unsuccessful.Given the available evidence I think Barclays made a reasonable decision not perusing a 
chargeback claim further with X.
I dont think there is sufficient evidence in this case to show a scam took place, or that 
Barclays had a reasonable chance of recovering Mr Fs funds via the chargeback process. 
So, Barclays does not have to refund any of the payments Mr F made to X.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman