DRN-3388523
The complaint
Mr A has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Advantage Gold account in July 2010.
Mr A says that he was unaware that there was a monthly fee on his account. He says after 
he opened the account, each time he added money to the account it then disappeared from 
the account. This led to the account becoming overdrawn.
What happened
Mr A was sold the Advantage Gold account in July 2010, the account was then downgraded 
to a fee-free account in June 2011 and closed in July 2011.
In June 2011, Mr As account balance was £351.57 overdrawn and a further £54 of fees was 
due to be applied to the account. NatWest agreed to write off the outstanding balance, and 
paid £405.57 into the account, to bring the account balance to zero. It then arranged to close 
the account.
Mr A complained to NatWest in 2021 about the sale of the account. In its initial response to 
the complaint, NatWest agreed to pay Mr A all of the packaged account fees hed been 
charged, which was £129.50. And as hed not had the benefit of this money, it also paid Mr A 
compensatory interest (at a rate of 8% simple interest, less tax) which came to £89.50.
Unhappy with this offer, Mr A contacted NatWest again, and NatWest agreed to also refund 
all of the charges and interest that were applied to Mr As account  even though theyd 
already largely been written off in 2011. This came to £350.54.
Mr A then referred his complaint to our service. An adjudicator assessed the complaint and 
he thought that everything that NatWest has done (in 2011 and 2021) to put matters right 
was reasonable.
Mr A disagreed and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints on our website, and Ive used that to help me 
decide this complaint. I should also point out that NatWest has agreed that the account was 
mis-sold. Therefore, the only thing left for me to consider is whether what it has already done 
to put matters right is reasonable. And having considered everything, I think it is.
In its most recent response to Mr As complaint, NatWest calculated that in the short time Mr 
A had the account, hed paid a total of £1,189.89 into the account, and had spent a total of 
£706.85 from the account. This means that Mr A was charged a total of £483.04 in charges 
i.e. packaged account fees, overdraft interest and overdraft charges. 
However, NatWest has paid a total of £975.11 in redress to Mr A in relation to this matter. As 
such, on top of the refund of all the packaged account fees and overdraft interest and 
charges, NatWest has essentially paid Mr A £492.07 in compensation, in relation to this 
matter. In the circumstances, given what happened, I think that this more than a reasonable 
amount. I say this especially as NatWest took reasonable steps in June 2011 - by writing off 
the overdrawn balance and downgrading the account to a fee-free account - to prevent the 
situation from getting any worse for Mr A.
I note that Mr A has said that he should get more compensation due to his circumstances. 
Mr A says that the situation caused him to become ill, which in turn led to him losing his job. 
Mr A says that his parents nearly died which in turn caused him to develop a chronic medical 
condition which now requires him to be on medication. Mr A says that he has lost everything 
and now is unable to get married.
Ive thought about everything that Mr A has said, and Im sorry to hear about his 
circumstances. I accept that Mr A mayve experienced some distress and inconvenience in 
2010 and 2011, especially when he discovered his account was incurring monthly fees when 
he was not sure what they were for. However, I cant reasonably say that the unfortunate 
events he has experienced in his personal life in 2010 and since then were directly caused 
because NatWest provided him with a fee-paying packaged account rather than a standard 
fee-free account in 2010. 
As such, I think that the compensation NatWest has already paid Mr A is a reasonable 
amount considering what happened. I therefore dont think it is reasonable to ask NatWest to 
pay Mr A any further compensation than it already has paid, in the circumstances.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think National Westminster Bank Plc needs to 
do anything more, than what it has already done, to put matters right in relation to the sale of 
the Advantage Gold account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman