DRN-3306907
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain Avantia Insurance Limited mis-sold their home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2014 Mr and Mrs H took out home insurance arranged by Avantia. The policy renewed 
each year up until 2019. In January 2020 they made a claim against the policy. Their home 
had suffered damage from an escape of water. A plumber had incorrectly fitted a toilet 
cistern. He accepted he was at fault. But the insurer refused the claim  saying damage 
caused by faulty workmanship was excluded by the terms of Mr and Mrs Hs policy.
Mr and Mrs H werent aware the policy featured that exclusion. They complained to Avantia 
saying they hadnt been made aware of it when taking out the cover. They say if they had 
known about it they wouldnt have agreed to buy the policy. Avantia didnt accept it had 
failed to provide Mr and Mrs H with good enough information about the policy.  
Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied with Avantias response, so they came to this service. To 
resolve their complaint they would like their claim to be paid and the water damage to be 
repaired. 
Our investigator said the exclusion had been applied to Mr and Mrs Hs cover when the 
policy renewed in 2019. He felt Avantia had done enough, during that renewal, to inform 
them about the change. So he didnt uphold their complaint. They didnt accept his 
assessment, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When selling insurance firms are required to provide clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the product. Thats to allow the potential customer to make an informed 
decision about the policy.
Sometimes, when a policy renews, changes are made to the terms of a policy. An insurer is 
entitled to do that as its offering a new contract.  But Id expect any changes to be 
highlighted to the customer in the renewal invitation  so they can consider if the policy 
remains suitable for them.    
The exclusion was introduced when Mr and Mrs H renewed in 2019. Ive looked at the 
renewal information sent to them. In the centre of the first page the cover letter says, in bold, 
Whats changed. Below that it explains a new policy will replace their current one. It says 
key changes are set out at the end of the document. 
At the end of document several changes are set out. Against a bold heading of General 
Exclusions its explained no cover will be provided for claims relating to Damage due to 
faulty design or workmanship.  
Mr and Mrs H feel that wasnt enough to let them know about such an important change to 
the policy. They feel it should have been set out in the policy section relating to escape of 
water cover. However, the exclusion isnt applicable to only escape of water claims. As a 
general exclusion it applies to the whole policy. So I wouldnt expect it to be in the escape 
of water section of the policy. 
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs H have said, including about the policy being rated as 
five-star. In my experience the exclusion isnt an unusual one. Its commonly found in home 
insurance policies. Having considered the 2019 renewal documentation, I think Avantia did 
enough to highlight its introduction. So I cant say Avantia mis-sold the policy by failing to 
provide clear, fair and not misleading information about the exclusion. I understand this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H, but Im not upholding their complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman