DRN-2612788
The complaint
Mr V complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has poorly handled his motor insurance 
claim.
What happened
Following a road traffic accident AXA failed to collect Mr Vs vehicle which had been
recovered by the police. As a result, it was prematurely disposed of without either party
having the chance to properly assess it for the purposes of the insurance claim.
Mr V complained that because of AXAs error, his personalised registration plate had also
been destroyed, alongside personal belongings  some of which held sentimental value. He
said AXA failed to give him full use of a courtesy car and that the open claim would likely
affect his future premiums  he wanted a letter confirming the accident wasnt his fault. And
he said hed missed out on using his vehicle towards two separate scrappage schemes and
a complementary benefit  worth around £8,000 combined.
AXA upheld his complaint in part and agreed to pay Mr V a cash settlement of £1,400 for his
vehicle which it said was in line with its market value at the time of the loss. It agreed its
service had fallen short and offered him £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
But it maintained the cash settlement offered was fair and didnt agree it should pay any
money regarding the scrappage schemes. AXA also agreed to pay £300 for his lost personal
belongings.
Our investigator looked into the matter and said AXA should do the following:
Increase Mr Vs cash settlement to £2,000 in total as she was persuaded one of the 
scrappage schemes wouldve paid him this amount.
Reimburse Mr V £88 for costs he incurred to replace his registration plate.
Pay Mr V £603 for the loss of personal belongings (instead of the £300 offered).
Pay Mr V the £500 compensation already offered for distress and inconvenience.
Mr V disagreed and maintained he missed out on both scrappage schemes and so should
be reimbursed for both. He said the investigator had failed to include reimbursement for the
complementary benefit and nine days car hire. And that the claim should be recorded as
non fault as this is what AXA told him would happen. He also thought the compensation
should be increased.
AXA agreed with our investigators findings on the registration plate and compensation for
trouble an upset. But it didnt agree to her findings on the scrappage scheme, saying Mr Vs
application for this was hypothetical. It also maintained its position on the personal
belongings. The complaint was passed to me to make a decision and I issued a provisional 
decision on this case in January 2021. Ive included part of this below.
AXA accepts it made a mistake in failing to recover Mr Vs vehicle before it was disposed of
and that its poor service undoubtedly caused him a level of distress and inconvenience. But
what the parties havent been able to agree on, is what needs to happen to put things right.
So Ive considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
Cash settlement
Its important to note, had AXA correctly recovered Mr Vs vehicle, it wouldve assessed the
extent of the damage to decide the best way to settle the claim. And its likely AXA wouldve
either repaired the vehicle and returned it to Mr V in a roadworthy state. Or, it may have
deemed it beyond economical repair, paying Mr V a cash settlement. Both outcomes would
usually be subject to the relevant policy excess.
However, under the second outcome, if Mr V opted to retain the vehicle salvage (which he
says he wouldve) its likely AXA wouldve also deducted from the cash settlement figure the
amount it wouldve received when disposing of the salvage. And Mr V would then be
responsible for the cost of any repairs needed to make the vehicle roadworthy (if this was
possible). Either way, he likely wouldve had the opportunity to retain the vehicle, (I just cant 
know at what cost). But AXAs error essentially removed this opportunity. So I need to 
consider the impact this had on Mr V.
Mr V says that prior to the accident he was planning to take advantage of two scrappage
schemes;
Scheme A  drivers scrapping eligible cars can receive a payment of £2,000 when 
doing so, subject to conditions.
Scheme B  a car manufacturer scheme offering up to £6,000 off the purchase of a 
brand-new car when trading in a previous eligible car, subject to conditions.
Mr V says he planned to trade in his vehicle using Scheme B, receiving £6,000 off the new
car he was going to buy and then notifying Scheme A his old vehicle had been destroyed by
the car dealership. He says he would then receive the £2,000 payment from Scheme A,
alongside a complementary benefit worth £60.
Mr V says hes been financially disadvantaged by AXAs error as he no longer has the
vehicle to trade in or scrap. So instead of paying him £1,400 cash settlement (a figure
reached using an average of the relevant trade guide valuations, taking into consideration
the age and condition of Mr Vs vehicle), he thinks it should pay him £8,000.
But based on what Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded Mr V couldve benefitted from these
two scrappage schemes at the same time. I say this because, part of the criteria for
Scheme A, is to use an Authorised Treatment Facility to scrap the car and to provide a
certificate of destruction after doing this.
But Ive not seen evidence to show the dealership wouldve used an authorised facility or
that it wouldve given Mr V a certificate of destruction once it had taken ownership of the
vehicle as part of the trade-in. I say this particularly as it seems the vehicle wouldve no
longer been his property at the point of destruction, and instead wouldve belonged to the
dealership.
But even if he could benefit from both schemes, Ive not seen evidence in this case to show
that Mr V had been approved for Scheme B. In the written information for this scheme, the
figure of £6,000 off the purchase of a new vehicle is preceded by the words up to meaning
this is the maximum amount a successful applicant could receive  its not a guaranteed
figure and wouldnt be paid to Mr V in cash.In summary, Ive seen no evidence of Mr Vs approval for Scheme B, or about how much he
wouldve received even if he was approved for it. And given his accident happened in
November 2019 and the scheme was due to finish a month later, Im not persuaded any
potential application he was looking to make wouldve been completed within the relevant
timescales anyway. With all of this in mind, I dont intend to direct AXA to compensate Mr V
for any losses hes claiming for in relation to Scheme B.
Scheme A is somewhat different. Mr V has provided us with an application showing his
vehicle had been approved for the scheme  albeit after the accident occurred  and subject
to him providing the certificate of destruction. So based on what Ive seen so far, had Mr V
been able to retain his vehicle after the accident, Im persuaded he couldve taken
advantage of this scheme. AXAs error has led to a loss of opportunity as a result.
But as set out above, without knowing how AXA wouldve settled the claim had it assessed
Mr Vs car before disposal, I also cant reasonably know the difference between what Mr V
wouldve received under the claim had that happened, versus what it seems he was entitled
to under Scheme A. And so, without this information, I dont think I can fairly direct AXA to
increase its cash settlement offer any further.
Im satisfied AXA has acted fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions in reaching
the figure of £1,400 cash settlement after carrying out its valuation. So I agree this is what it
should pay Mr V for the total loss of his vehicle.
Distress and inconvenience
As set out above, based on what Ive seen so far in this case, Im persuaded theres been a
loss of opportunity for Mr V by AXA failing to recover his vehicle before it was disposed of.
This is alongside considerable upset at the loss of sentimental belongings  some of which
cannot be replaced, failures to manage his expectations and keep him updated, and
additional time he had to spend trying to resolve matters with AXA. Mr V says this has had a
considerable impact on his health and wellbeing and his ability to care for his elderly parents.
With all this in mind, I intend to increase the compensatory payment AXA must pay to
account for the impact of its actions and the distress and inconvenience caused in this case.
I intend to direct AXA to increase the payment by a further £500 (bringing the total in
compensation to £1,000).
Personal belongings
Mr V has provided a list of his lost personal belongings, the cost of which amounts to a total
of £603. From what Ive seen, AXA hasnt disputed the items being claimed for  or the value
Mr V has placed on them. But its only agreed to pay £300 towards this loss as it says this is
the maximum policy limit for this type of claim.
The policy term AXA seems to be relying on in making this decision says AXA will cover;
Loss of or damage to clothing and personal belongings (including dashboard cameras fitted
to your car) caused by fire, theft, attempted theft or accident, while they are in your car. The
most we will pay for any one incident is £300.
From what Ive seen, Mr Vs personal belongings werent lost or damaged as a result of the
accident (as the term states), but rather AXAs failure to recover his vehicle meaning the
items were destroyed at the same time the vehicle was. By this I mean, had the car not been
disposed of, its likely Mr V wouldve recovered these items himself upon retrieval of his
vehicle at a later date, and so likely wouldnt have needed to claim for them.So in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think AXA can fairly apply the incident
limit set out in the above term. But even if I agreed it could consider this under the policy
terms  I wouldnt think it would be fair to in the circumstances. As far as is possible, AXA 
should put Mr V back in the position he wouldve been in, but for its error. Im persuaded had 
it correctly recovered Mr Vs vehicle, he would still have his personal belongings. So I intend 
to direct AXA to pay Mr V £603 reimbursement for this loss.
Courtesy car hire
AXA says that when Mr V notified it that he still had nine days of courtesy car hire left under
his policy, it authorised a new reservation for the remaining entitlement. Mr V says he never
used this because AXA only authorised it on the day his insurance policy was due to expire.
And he assumed that after his policy ended, hed be liable for any insurance and waivers
related to the car hire. He didnt think this was fair, so now wants to be compensated for the
days lost instead.
But Ive not seen evidence to show Mr Vs assumption was correct. And from my experience
of these types of policies and claims, I think it more likely that as the courtesy car had been
approved under the claim while his policy was still in place, then the same conditions that
applied to the five days courtesy car hire he had use of, would also apply to the additional
nine days available and approved under his claim.
It follows I dont intend to direct AXA to reimburse Mr V for any car hire days lost, because
from what Ive seen it authorised this for him at the time he raised it, and so seems to have
met its obligation under the policy. Mr V decided not to use the car for reasons he believed
to be true, but I havent seen evidence that AXA influenced this belief in any way. It follows
Im not persuaded it was at fault for the loss of the additional days of courtesy car hire.
Letters confirming no claims bonus and the status of claim
Its not my role to decide who was at fault for the accident. I can consider whether an insurer
acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its decision on liability. Im aware Mr V says at the
time of making his claim, AXA told him it would be recorded as non-fault. But at the time the
final response letter (FRL) was issued for this complaint, no decision had been made on this.
So I cant reasonably comment on how the claim has been recorded under this complaint.
Its also worth noting that regardless of what Mr V was told on a phone call with AXA, I cant
direct it to issue him with correspondence that, as I understand it, isnt at this time factually
correct. It follows that based on what Ive seen in this complaint, I dont intend to direct AXA
to issue a letter to Mr V confirming he wasnt at fault for the accident and that his no claims
bonus is still intact.
In relation to Mr Vs premiums, AXA explained in its FRL that while the claim is open, its
unable to determine the impact on his premiums, but once the claim has been closed, he
can contact his insurer to request for them to be recalculated to determine if an overpayment
in premium has been made. This doesnt seem unreasonable and is generally common
practice in claims of this nature. So in this case, I dont intend to direct AXA to do anything
further in relation to this.
I upheld Mr Vs complaint in part and explained that I intended to direct AXA to pay him 
£1,400 for the cash settlement of his vehicle (subject to the applicable policy excess), pay 
him a total of £1000 compensation for distress and inconvenience, reimburse him £603 for 
the loss of his personal belongings and £88 for the costs associated in recovering his private 
registration plate.AXA didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mr V sent detailed comments which Ive 
carefully considered in their entirety. But in this decision, Ill focus on what I see as being the 
key responses hes made. Ive summarised and responded to these in my findings below.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most of my findings remain unchanged for the reasons already set out in my provisional 
decision and explained below. But based on what Ive seen, I do think differently about how 
AXA needs to deal with Mr Vs complaint point about the courtesy car hire. 
Loss of personal belongings have been downplayed  Mr V wants additional 
compensation for the sentimental impact  I dont doubt the loss of sentimental 
belongings wouldve been very upsetting for Mr V, and in reality, no amount of money 
can make up for this loss. But I agree AXA needs to recognise the impact of this in 
any compensation offered. And as set out in my provisional decision, I think this is 
fairly recognised in the £1,000 compensation Im directing AXA to pay, so I wont be 
increasing this any further. 
Claim status has been incorrectly recorded by AXA and will negatively impact future 
insurance premiums  I cant award compensation for potential future losses, I can 
only consider whats actually happened so far in this complaint. And as I understand, 
Mr V is yet to purchase a new vehicle, so hes unlikely to be incurring insurance 
premiums at present  increased or otherwise. But even if he was, Ive already 
explained in my provisional decision how any potential overpayment in premiums can 
be considered by his insurer once the claim is settled. My findings on this therefore 
remain unchanged.
Mr V doesnt agree with the cash settlement amount or that AXA deemed his car a 
total loss  Ive already said I cant know whether AXA wouldve repaired the vehicle 
or written it off had things gone as they should. So Ive kept this in mind when making 
my decision. However, the fact is the car was destroyed, so AXA seems to have 
recorded this as a total loss on its system which doesnt seem unreasonable in the 
circumstances. And its paid Mr V a cash settlement which seems fair as explained in 
my provisional decision. So again, my findings on this remain unchanged.
Mr V had agreed in principle to partake in Scheme B but AXAs actions resulted in 
him being unable to pursue this, so he wants to be compensated for this loss  As 
set out in my provisional decision, Ive not seen sufficient evidence that Mr V had 
been approved for Scheme B or evidence that persuades me he wouldve most likely 
taken advantage of it and received £6,000 off the new car he was purchasing but for 
AXAs error. So on balance, my findings remain unchanged regarding this matter.
Mr V disagrees with the compensation for trouble and upset as hes been without a 
vehicle for a significant period of time which has negatively impacted him and his 
family  Im satisfied AXA met its obligation under the policy and offered Mr V a fair 
cash settlement for his vehicle which he chose to decline. While hes entitled to that 
choice, I dont think it would be fair to hold AXA responsible for the time Mr V says 
hes been without a replacement car because of this. So these points dont change 
my conclusion on the compensation in this case.Mr V was told by the car hire company that hed be responsible for the courtesy car 
costs after his policy expired and when he tried to query this with AXA, he received 
no reply  Mr V has provided a copy of an email he sent to AXA querying this matter 
which seems to support his testimony of events. Our investigator approached AXA 
for its comments on this but received no reply. So in the absence this, it seems AXA 
did fail to respond to Mr V to explain how the courtesy car process would work after 
his policy expired. As a result, he didnt feel comfortable continuing with the courtesy 
car past the five days already authorised in case of additional charges, which I can 
understand in the circumstances of this case. Under the policy terms it says if a 
courtesy car cannot be arranged, AXA will pay for alternative travel costs up to a 
maximum of £15 per day (for up to 14 days). So I think its fair that AXA should pay 
Mr V at this rate for the nine days courtesy car hire it seems he lost out on (£135).
Putting things right
AXA Insurance UK Plc must do the following to put things right if it hasnt done so already:
Pay Mr V £1,400 cash settlement for the total loss of his vehicle (subject to the 
applicable policy excess).
Increase its offer of compensation for distress and inconvenience from £500 to 
£1,000.
Reimburse Mr V £603 for the loss of his personal belongings.
Reimburse Mr V £88 for the costs associated in recovering his private registration 
plate.
Reimburse Mr V £135 for the loss of nine days courtesy car hire.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
put things right in the way I set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman