DRN-4251692
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) declined a claim he made 
following the theft of his mobile phone.
What happened
Mr B has mobile phone insurance with Assurant as part of his packaged bank account.
Whilst at a place of worship Mr Bs phone was stolen, so he made a claim to Assurant. 
However, Assurant declined Mr Bs claim as they said he left the phone unattended and 
hadnt taken care of it. 
Mr B approached this service as he was unhappy with the claim decision and the service 
hed received from Assurant.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but he didnt uphold it. He said that 
Assurant had fairly declined the claim based on what Mr B had said happened at the time of 
the loss. 
Mr B later provided CCTV footage from the time of theft. However, our investigators view 
that Assurant had fairly declined the claim remained the same.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr B, Ive 
reached the same outcome as our investigator.
When Mr B first reported the theft, he told Assurant that hed left his phone on charge, in the 
open, in an area that others had access to in the place of worship. He said a thief had 
entered and stolen his and four or five other phones. The information provided by Mr B was 
relayed back to him, and he confirmed this was correct.
Assurant subsequently declined Mr Bs claim. They referred to the following in the policy 
terms and conditions:
What you are NOT covered for
Loss, theft, damage or breakdown as a result of not taking care of your mobile phone
We know how important your mobile phone is to you and we expect that you will take 
care of your mobile phone. If you dont take care of your mobile phone then we may 
not pay your claim.
Taking care of your phone means:
Not knowingly leaving your mobile phone somewhere it is likely to be lost, 
stolen or damaged, just think would you leave your wallet or purse there?
If you need to leave your mobile phone somewhere then we expect you to 
lock it away out of sight if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you 
must leave it with someone you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place.
Making reasonable enquiries to find your phone if you think you have lost it.
If you knowingly leave your mobile phone where others can see it but you cannot and 
your mobile is then lost or stolen we may not pay your claim.
We will always take into account where you are and what you are doing when we 
assess whether you have taken care of your phone. If we believe you have not taken 
care of your mobile phone, and have knowingly taken a risk with it, we may decline 
your claim.
If you knowingly leave your mobile phone somewhere you cant see it but others can, 
we may decline your claim for not taking care of your mobile phone  For example:
.
All of these examples increase the risk of it being lost, stolen or damaged and may 
result in your claim being declined. The examples are to help you understand whats 
covered, and are not the only reasons a claim could be rejected.
Based on what Mr B first reported as the circumstances which led to the loss, I dont think 
Assurant acted unfairly by declining the claim based on the policy exclusion as Mr B 
reported he left his phone in an area open to others on charge. So, if this is what happened, 
I dont think Assurant acted unfairly by declining Mr Bs claim on this basis.
However, after the claim was declined, Mr B then said the circumstances at the time of theft 
were different. He said his phone wasnt on charge in the open in an area others had access 
to. Instead, Mr B said it was out of sight, in a secure office, off limits to anyone else.
Due to the change in circumstances which led to the loss, Assurant said that Mr B would 
need to provide proof of this, and that force was used to get into the office to steal his phone. 
Mr B submitted CCTV footage, which he says shows this. However, Assurants position 
remained the same.
Ive seen the CCTV footage, and I dont think this is sufficient to demonstrate Mr Bs phone 
was in a secure office, hidden away and out of sight at the time of the loss. Instead, the 
CCTV shows the thief entering a large room, which already had two people resting in, 
through a set of unlocked push open swing doors, they spend some time looking around 
before no longer being visible on camera. But it doesnt show the thief entering a secure 
area in order to steal Mr Bs phone as he says.
Based on all the information provided, I dont think Assurant has acted unfairly by declining 
Mr Bs claim.
Mr B is also unhappy with calls he had with Assurant as he says the call handlers acted 
unprofessionally. He also says Assurant said his claim would be covered and asked him to 
pay his excess. From the calls Ive listened to, I think Assurant handled them reasonably. I also dont agree that Assurant told Mr B his claim would be covered, instead they said the 
claim would need to be reviewed and if accepted the excess would need to be paid.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman