DRN-4522437
The complaint
Mr W complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) declined his claim
following the theft of his vehicle and cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W had a commercial insurance policy with Haven. His van was stolen so he made a
claim. He says Haven declined to cover his loss because it thought his occupation differed
from the information he provided when taking out the policy.
Mr W says he told the insurance broker he worked as a furniture dealer. This is what was
stated in his policy documents. He says his occupation involves obtaining furniture from
house clearances. Mr W says he acted in good faith and his occupation was described
accurately when taking out his policy. He says he wasnt given 14 days to review his policy
documents and to make any changes.
In its final complaint response Haven says Mr W was insured to drive his van for Carriage of
Own Goods. It explains that he declared his occupation as Self Employed Furniture Dealer.
Haven says it interviewed Mr W after he made his claim. During the interview he said his
occupation was furniture removals and this involved using his van for, picking up furniture
and removals.
Haven says its policy terms dont provide cover where the vehicle is used for a purpose
other than those specified on the certificate of motor insurance. It says Mr W was using his
vehicle for hire and reward purposes, which is a class of use he isnt insured for. Because of
this it declined the claim and cancelled the policy in line with its terms and conditions.
Haven says it set up the policy correctly based on the information Mr Ws broker provided. It
told him to contact his broker directly if he believed that a miscommunication had occurred.
But it didnt change its decision to decline the claim and cancel Mr Ws policy.
Mr W thought this was unfair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld
his complaint. She says Mr Ws van was stolen from outside his house. At the time this
happened she says it wasnt being used in a way that it wasnt insured for. She didnt think
Mr W had provided inaccurate information about his occupation. She says he confirmed
what he did and wasnt asked to elaborate on this by his broker.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair that Haven had continued to chase Mr W for his
outstanding premium payments whilst his complaint had been referred to our service.
Because of this she says Haven should pay the claim, reinstate the policy, and pay £100
compensation for the stress and anxiety it caused Mr W.
Haven didnt accept this outcome. It says Mr W didnt make a fair presentation of his
occupation when taking out his policy. It says it acted according to its policy terms and
conditions when declining the claim and cancelling the policy.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my first provisional decision in October 2023 explaining that I was intending to not
uphold Mr Ws complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I understand this will be upsetting and
Im sorry to disappoint him. But Ill explain why I think my decision is fair.
Mr W has a commercial insurance policy with Haven. The relevant law here for me to
consider is the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). Haven says Mr W didnt provide accurate
information when he took out his policy. Had it been provided with accurate information it
says it wouldnt have offered cover.
Under the Act before a contract of insurance is entered into, the insured must give a fair
presentation of the risk to the insurer. This is known as the duty of fair presentation. This
means:
(a) disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought to know, or
(b) failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent
insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of revealing those
material circumstances.
The information Mr W provided to Haven, during his application through his broker,
confirmed he was a Furniture Dealer. From the statement of fact document, I can see that
under the heading, Nature of employers business, Mr W had confirmed Furniture
Manufacture. However, Haven says the insured van was being used for hire and reward
purposes. It has provided screen shots from a social media page for Mr Ws business. This
states his business is a removal and clearance company.
Haven says that during a post claim interview with Mr W its agent asked, whats your
occupation?. It says he responded with, we just do furniture removals and stuff like that.
When asked, what is the vehicle used for? it says Mr W responded to say, just for picking
up furniture and removals.
Looking at Mr Ws certificate of insurance, it says:
Limitations as to use:
Use for social, domestic, and pleasure purposes and for the policyholders business for the
carriage of own goods but excluding use for racing competitions, pacemaking, rallies, or any
contest, reliability or speed trials or conveyance of passengers or goods for hire and reward.
Ive thought about whether Mr Ws stated vehicle use, for, removals and picking up
furniture, reasonably falls within the carriage of own goods use covered under his policy. I
dont think it does. Carriage of own goods, is, I think, more reasonably used to describe the
tools a trades person might carry. Whereas Mr W says he used his vehicle to collect and
transport items of furniture from house clearances.
Im more persuaded by Havens view that furniture removals falls more reasonably within the
class of usage described above, that is, conveyance of goods for hire and reward.
I can see the policy documents sent to Mr W explained in several places, the importance ofcorrect information, and that the policy may be cancelled, avoided, or claims refused if
information was incorrect.
Having considered the requirements of the Insurance Act 2015, I dont think Mr W made a
fair presentation of the risk when the policy was taken out.
I need to consider what Haven would have done differently had it known the insured vehicle
was being used for the purpose Mr W was using it for. The business has supplied excerpts
from its underwriting criteria. This shows no cover wouldve been offered to Mr W had he
provided accurate information about the intended use of his van. Havens underwriting
criteria is commercially sensitive. So, I cant share it. But Im satisfied from what Ive seen
that Haven wouldnt have offered cover.
In these circumstances the Insurance Act 2015 provides certain remedies. If the qualifying
breach was reckless or deliberate the insurer can avoid the policy, refuse all claims and
need not return the premiums. If it was neither deliberate nor reckless the insurer can avoid
the policy and refuse all claims, but it must return the premiums.
Haven declined Mr Ws claim. I think it was reasonably able to do so in line with the
remedies available to it under the Insurance Act 2015. But it didnt avoid the policy. It chose
to cancel the policy instead. It refers to the following policy terms in support of its actions:
Cancellation with immediate effect / voidance
At Our option, We or Your Broker may cancel Your policy with immediate effect or void Your
policy from inception at any time where; there is evidence of fraud or a valid reason for doing
so, including but not limited to:
6 If You are in breach of any of the Terms, Exceptions, Exclusions, Conditions or
Endorsements of Your policy.
This section of the policy terms also says, Where fraud is identified we may retain all
premiums paid.
Haven says it has retained Mr Ws premiums. But it hasnt avoided his policy. If it had, it still
hasnt shown why it considers the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate. I also cant
see that its been shown Mr W acted fraudulently. Because of this I dont think its fair that
Haven should retain his premium. It should now refund the instalments hes paid. This
means Haven cant pursue him for the remaining monthly instalment he would have paid had
his policy not been cancelled.
Im unsure why Haven didnt retrospectively avoid the policy in line with the remedies under
the Insurance Act 2015. But nevertheless, by not avoiding it, this arguably puts Mr W in a
more favourable position than he otherwise wouldve been in, if Haven had exercised its full
rights to avoid the policy. So, I cant say it has acted unfairly.
In his complaint Mr W says that when he took out his policy he described his occupation to
the broker who selected furniture dealer. He says he didnt raise objections as this
accurately reflects his work. Mr W says collecting furniture from house clearances, is
incidental to his occupation as a furniture dealer. He says this is the capacity in which he
was operating at the time of the theft.
Ive thought about Mr Ws comments. But the evidence shows Haven offered him cover
based on the information provided by his broker. If Mr W has concerns with the information
his broker passed on to Haven he should contact it to raise a dispute. But any complaintabout his brokers actions will need to be handled separately.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Haven didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider.
Mr W responded to say he intended requesting copies of phone call recordings from his
insurance broker, and that he may raise a complaint against it.
I issued a second provisional decision in November 2023 to confirm I was upholding Mr Ws 
complaint in part. This relates to a refund of premiums in line with the Act. I confirmed a 
refund was required in my first provisional decision. But I referred to not upholding the 
complaint. This was an error. Heres what I said to correct this:
Second provisional decision
I can see that our investigator explained to Mr W that if he has concerns with the information
his broker provided to Haven he must make a separate complaint. My decision here relates
to Havens involvement. As discussed, it set up its policy based on the information it was
provided with by Mr Ws broker. If Mr W has concerns with the accuracy of this information
he will need to contact his broker directly to complain. If he remains dissatisfied with its
response he can ask our service to consider the matter.
Im sorry Mr W has suffered a financial loss. But I havent seen any information or further
comments that persuade me that a change to my provisional findings is warranted, other
than to correct the error I made regarding the premium refund.
My intention is to uphold this complaint in part and that Haven should refund the insurance
premium payments Mr W has paid.
I said I would consider any further information or comments the parties wanted to provide. 
Haven didnt respond to my second provisional decision. 
Mr W responded with copies of call recordings between him and his insurance broker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the new information Mr W has sent. However, my decision here is about his 
complaint with Haven, not his insurance broker. If Mr W thinks that his broker has provided 
inaccurate information to Haven he can complain to his broker directly. But, as Ive already 
explained, Im not able to consider any concerns raised about his insurance broker in my 
decision about Haven. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Haven Insurance Company Limited 
should:
refund the premium payments Mr W has paid. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman