DRN-3673585
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund transactions she didnt agree 
to.
What happened
Miss C arranged to have a medical procedure in another country which Ill refer to as P. Miss
C was provided with an itinerary of the events and accommodation was also arranged for
her, including a guide Ill refer to as D.
Some days prior to the procedure, Miss C and D had spa sessions over two days. Miss C
later said she was required to pay for both her and Ds treatments for the second days visit
and a meal.
On the day of the procedure, Miss Cs operation was slightly delayed, and she was in touch
via a messaging app with friends back in the UK. About 2:00 pm local time, Miss C told her
friend that she was going into have the operation. At about 12:30 pm (UK time)  2:30 pm
local time  a payment was made using Miss Cs phone to send money via a money transfer
service. The funds (£400) were later found to have been sent to Miss Cs guide (D).
Miss C has explained that she was in the operation when this transaction was carried out, so
couldnt have agreed to it. She believes her phone was opened using the facial ID security
feature whilst she was in the hospital by D.
Miss C explained that she wasnt aware of this payment for a few days. Its also apparent
that Miss C suffered some form of reaction to the procedure and was back in her hotel room
for several days being assisted by D.
Miss C then explained she had to ask for D and Ds sister to be removed from her room at
the hotel after an argument. Later, a demand for funds was made by the hotel manager prior
to Miss C leaving the hotel. Miss C told us that she made a payment using her bank card
and Personal Identification Number (PIN) under duress at the hotel.
Miss C moved from the hotel and eventually returned on a flight to the UK where she was
taken to hospital and received treatment.
Miss C told Barclays about the issue when she was able to (because of her illness) and
asked for a refund of the payment made by D and the payment made at the hotel. Barclays
made a temporary refund of the payments and investigated Miss Cs claim. Barclays
believed Miss C had authorised the payments herself and removed the temporary credit
from her account. Miss C made a complaint, although after considering it, Barclays declined
to make any refund.
Miss C remained unhappy with how Barclays had dealt with her complaint and brought it to
the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of
our investigators who asked both parties for information about the complaint.
Miss C explained what had happened and provided details of the arrangements about her
operation, the hotel, and her guide (D). Miss C provided information from her messaging app
to show she was having the operation at the time of the transaction to the money transfer
service. Miss C said she tried to report the matter to the local police but never got anywhere
and didnt think the UK police could do anything about it.
Barclays provided details of the payments and their assessment of what had gone on. They
didnt think that Miss Cs version of events was likely. They believed the money exchange
payment was made using Miss Cs phone in a store (but later accepted it wasnt whilst at the
store  but still used the phone) and that shed authorised the Chip and PIN payment herself.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. Miss C provided further evidence that the
£400 payment was made from her phone and not in any store. Our investigator believed that
it was possible to spoof the facial recognition on Miss Cs phone. He thought that because
she was in the operation at the time, it was likely she hadnt authorised that payment herself
and upheld that part of her complaint in a second view. He didnt uphold the other aspect of
the complaint which was the Chip and PIN payment.
Barclays disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of the complaint. Miss C
was also unhappy with the outcome and believed Barclays hadnt considered her case
properly at the time she reported it. She also thought she should receive a refund for the
second disputed transaction.
The complaint has now been passed to me and I issued a provisional decsion where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Barclays can hold Miss C liable for the disputed payments if the
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them.
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss C authorised
the transactions, but Barclays cannot say that the use of the card and PIN or the use of
Apple Pay conclusively proves that the payments were authorised.
Unless Barclays can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Miss Cs account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools
issued to Miss C. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Miss C responsible for the disputed
transactions or not.
Ive no doubt here that Miss C had an awful experience when she visited P for her
procedure. Its apparent there was a breakdown of relationships with people she was
counting on, leaving her vulnerable after the operation. The complaint is that Miss C has
been held responsible for these two payments and my considerations are concerned with
that aspect of Miss Cs experience.
Money Transfer Payment
Miss C has described having an operation which required an anaesthetic, presumably a
general because she describes waking up at various times. I understand that this type of
anaesthetic involves some risk, so I would think that once administered, Miss C wouldremain under some form of medical supervision.
Miss C explained that shed left her bag containing the cash for the operation with D and the
money was missing after the operation. D told Miss C that it had been used to pay for the
operation. Miss C believes that D used her phone to make the transaction during this period.
In order to use facial recognition on Miss Cs phone  it usually requires the owner of the
phone (Miss C) to be conscious. This is a security precaution to prevent unauthorised use
whilst the user is asleep or unconscious. In the investigators view, he speculated that it was
possible to spoof this system.
Barclays didnt think this was likely and neither do I. I havent seen any credible evidence
that this system is able to spoofed in the manner suggested by the investigator, so I dont
think that is the likely explanation here. So, in order for the facial recognition to be used to
open the phone and make the payment, Miss C would most likely have to be awake.
Ive considered if this could have been done without her knowledge and Im afraid I dont
think this likely. The payment appears to have been made about 30 minutes after Miss Cs
last message. Either Miss C was still awake and was aware what was happening  in which
case she would be liable for the payment, or somehow, D managed to take the phone and
enter a room with Miss C whilst she was under the anaesthetic (but still awake) and use the
facial recognition to open the phone and then again to make the payment whilst other
hospital staff were present.
I dont think that once Miss C had been administered the drug she would be left alone as this
would have presented a significant risk to her health and doesnt seem like something a
hospital would do. That would also mean the other persons present were happy to allow this
unusual activity to take place  which just doesnt seem likely in a hospital operating theatre.
I noted that there were additional funds available in Miss Cs account at the time. Often in
cases where an unauthorised third party is able to take control of someones money, they try
to take as much as possible in the time available. Here that didnt happen, and the payment
was made to D in her own name. Not generally something I would expect a thief to do.
I asked Miss C for evidence of messages about her experience whilst she was in P. Its clear
that Miss C had difficulties following the operation and fell ill, requiring a hospital stay once
back in the UK. But what I didnt see was any reference to any unauthorised transactions.
The messages generally relate to Miss Cs bad experience with the operation, but I would
have thought the loss of funds would also have been a topic of conversation with her friends
and family.
Overall, I dont think the evidence points to D taking her phone and making the payment
herself. I currently think its more likely than not that Miss C made the payment herself.
Chip and PIN payment
Miss C has said she made this additional payment under duress whilst at the hotel. Whilst
its apparent that Miss Cs relationship with D broke down (because she was ejected from
her hotel room), I havent seen any evidence that the hotel were applying unusual pressure
towards Miss C. Additional charges at a hotel arent unusual and Miss Cs schedule
indicates an extra payment for hotel accommodation similar to the amount taken on this
transaction. Miss C explained that shed moved out of the hotel and therefore wasnt liable
for this additional payment (because of her early departure). 
But Miss C had also explained to Barclays that D had ordered food whilst in the room. Its 
not clear what the additional payment was for whilst at the hotel as it could have been the additional charges for accommodation or room service. But because Miss C made the 
payment herself, shes
authorised it and I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to hold her liable for it.
Claim handling
Miss C didnt think that Barclays had investigated the situation thoroughly, but I think their
approach was an appropriate way to handle the claim (by giving a temporary credit) before
investigating. Once theyd assessed the evidence, the removal of the temporary credit was
the next step because of their belief that Miss C authorised the transactions herself. It was
explained to Miss C that the evidence indicated she was responsible, which is why I think
they took the temporary credit back. I havent seen anything that would lead me to question
Barclays approach with how they dealt with this situation.
Overall I accept that Miss C had a difficult time whilst visiting P for her procedure, but having
examined the evidence, my objective assessment is that I currently think Miss C was more
likely than not responsible for these transactions and I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I invited Miss C and Barclays to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Barclays didnt respond and Miss C believed 
shed been the victim of a scam but didnt provide any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman