DRN-3265032
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he lost after he fell victim to 
a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows;
Around March 2020, Mr S has said he came across an advert, on a social media platform, 
for a company that said it was able to assist students with their studies, essays and 
dissertations and that they would be able to assist him with tests that were upcoming. Mr S 
said it was difficult and strict to join groups on this social media platform (with the need to 
provide proof of being a student) and in the year leading up to this he had never seen any 
adverts. Mr S has told us he believed the company to be genuine, as the advert appeared on 
the social media platform, and as it was so strict to get access to the platform, Mr S believed 
the advert may have been approved by the university.
Believing things to be genuine Mr S contacted the company. Hes said he started to 
communicate with the company around March 2020 and was interested in the services they 
were providing.
 
Mr S made the following payments, through online banking, to the company, on the 
understanding that they would complete a number of exams for him:
10/05/2020 £2,707.50
31/05/2020 £950 (payment returned 2/6/2020)
17/06/2020 £5,586
29/06/2020 £2,000
06/07/2020 £1,000
Mr S said his first intention in approaching the company was not to find somebody to sit 
exams for him, he was persuaded by them to ask them to do this. Hes said this was 
because he was told they had excellent resources and an abundance of experience helping 
students, so Mr S has said he eventually let them sit an exam for him and he paid for this 
service.
The first payment Mr S made was paid in advance of an exam that was due to be sat in July 
2020. With the remaining payments made in advance for other exams Mr S asked the 
company to take for him, which were scheduled for August 2020, and for a dissertation. Mr S 
has provided evidence of the communication he had with the company through instant 
messaging, which details this, in that he was entrusting the company with six of his exams 
and one dissertation.
  
Mr S has said the company did complete the first exam, by which time all of the payments 
had been made to the company. Hes said that having received the exam through his 
university platform, he downloaded it and sent it to the company, who answered the 
questions and then sent it back to him. Mr S has said he thought it had been completed to a 
good standard and he submitted the answer sheet but, sometime later, when he received 
the results, he received a low score.
 
In the meantime Mr S has said the company became less responsive and he was given 
excuses for things not being done, such as tutors being too busy due to the pandemic and 
that more money was needed as the work needed to be carried out by somebody more 
qualified. He was also told that he wouldnt receive any further help, if he didnt send more 
money. Mr S has said once he realised he wasnt receiving what he expected for his money, 
he chased the company, but eventually it stopped contact with him.
Mr S has said he didnt know anybody else who had used this company. Hes told us that 
asking for this type of help with exams wasnt something that youd talk about with friends. 
Evidence from Barclays also shows Mr S told it that he didnt contact the police as he was 
worried they would question him about things. 
Mr S raised the matter with Barclays and it issued its final response in March 2021. Barclays 
reviewed Mr Ss complaint under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code) but 
didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, Barclays said this because it felt Mr S did not 
undertake any research before making payments and he ignored scam warnings.
Mr S didnt agree with Barclays position and brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things, but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary this was 
because she didnt think the payments, being made for other individuals to complete Mr Ss 
exams, coursework and dissertation, were for a legitimate purpose and therefore the CRM 
code didnt apply. Our investigator also didnt think there was any other reason why Barclays 
should refund Mr S. This was because she didnt consider the payments Mr S made were so 
remarkable that she thought Barclays ought to have intervened. Our investigator also 
thought Barclays did what it could to try and recover the money, once Mr S had made it 
aware of the scam. And alongside this, our investigator also didnt consider there were any 
issues with the service Barclays provided. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary he said that it wasnt his first 
intention for the company to complete exams for him, they persuaded him. Hes said that 
although its unethical and not moral, it is not illegal to ask for help on assignments and 
exams  so his case shouldnt be considered illegitimate. Alongside this he thought the 
payments he made were remarkable enough for Barclays to spot that they were abnormal 
and a potential scam. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr S has referred to other decisions issued by our service. But I would point out 
that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each complaint is determined 
by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked at the individual 
circumstances of Mr S complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having considered everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Barclays to 
refund the money Mr S sent. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one Mr S was 
hoping for. But having thought about Barclays actions, I am unable to say it has 
responsibility for refunding the money Mr S sent. I will explain why.
The CRM Code requires Barclays to refund customers who have been the victims of a scam, 
with some limited exceptions. The Code covers Authorised Push Payments (APP) and it 
defines APP payments as follows: 
DS1(2) 
(a) APP Scam Authorised Push Payment scam, that is, a transfer of funds executed across 
Faster Payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer, authorised by a Customer in 
accordance with regulation 67 of the PSRs, where: 
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or
(ii) The customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent 
There are further definitions provided in the Code, but Ive included the section that is 
specifically relevant to Mr Ss case. 
I am persuaded that Mr S has fallen victim to a scam here. He didnt receive the service he 
was paying for and from what Ive seen its more likely than not the company he engaged 
with set out with the intent to not provide that service. But having considered everything I 
dont think Mr S could fairly and reasonably have believed that the payments he was making 
were for legitimate services.
  
Mr S has said that he doesnt think his actions should be considered as illegitimate. But I 
dont agree with Mr S. Im persuaded that were he has engaged with a company to gain an 
unfair academic advantage, through paying it to sit his exams and write his dissertation, he 
has done so with fair and reasonable knowledge that this would not be considered a 
legitimate service. I think this is supported with Mr S saying that he didnt want to report the 
matter to the police, with the concern of being questioned and that it wasnt the sort of thing 
he would discuss with his fellow students. 
As the purpose of the payments was not for legitimate services, it is not an APP scam as 
defined by the CRM code, therefore the payments Mr S made are not covered by the Code. 
It follows that I cant fairly ask Barclays to refund Mr S under the CRM code. 
But I have gone on to consider whether Barclays couldve or shouldve done more to prevent 
the payments being made in the first place.Could Barclays have done anymore to prevent the scam?
Ive gone on to consider whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with   
Mr S, when he made the transfer and when he reported the fraud, or whether it should have 
done more than it did. 
In making the payments through his online banking, Im satisfied Mr S authorised the 
transactions. Because of this, Barclays had an obligation to follow his instructions. But there 
are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfers. I consider that as a matter of good practice 
Barclays shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions and it 
should intervene if a payment appears unusual or suspicious.
Barclays has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But on 
balance, I cant fairly say that the transactions Mr S made were so unusual or suspicious in 
comparison to his normal account activity that they ought to have alerted Barclays to have 
intervened.
I say this as, having looked through Mr Ss bank statements for the twelve months leading 
up to the scam, I can see that he has made other large payments, so I dont think the 
payments would have appeared as so remarkable to Barclays that they ought to have fairly 
and reasonably caused it any concern that Mr S may have been at risk of financial harm. 
The payments also didnt clear the entire account balance, which can often be an indicator of 
a scam. And I can see there are other occasions where Mr S has transferred funds from his 
savings account, to then move them on from his current account  as was the case here. 
Overall, I simply dont think the payments stood out as being so unusual or suspicious that I 
could fairly or reasonably have expected Barclays to have intervened.
Ive considered whether Barclays acted quickly enough to recover the funds once it was 
notified of the scam. Ive seen evidence which satisfies me that Barclays contacted the 
receiving bank shortly after the scam was reported, but no funds remained. So there was 
nothing more it could do to assist in the recovery of funds.
Mr S has also said he was not happy with the service Barclays provided when dealing with 
his complaint. But, from what Ive seen, it has dealt with things in line with what is expected 
of it. And has responded in a timely manner when Mr S first raised the dispute and then 
when he later raised the matter as a complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman