DRN-3435149
The complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Financial Services Ltd trading as Admiral Loans declined his 
application for a loan after he said he was told hed already been pre-approved for the loan.
What happened
Mr C applied for a £25,000 loan with Admiral after seeing hed been pre-approved on a loan 
comparison site. Mr C said his application was declined by Admiral. He said they hadnt 
treated him fairly in declining the loan and this had affected his credit file. He complained to 
Admiral.
Admiral said the pre-approved match Mr C was given was always subject to further
verification of the information provided. Admiral said theyd checked Mr Cs credit, 
affordability, personal data and their own internal criteria. They said theyd found a loan that 
wasnt showing on Mr Cs credit check and so theyd decided, upon review of the information 
to decline his loan application. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Admirals response as he said the loan was showing on his credit 
file. He again reiterated he only applied for the loan as hed already been approved for it. He 
referred his complaint to us.
Our Investigator said its for Admiral to decide whether they want to lend to Mr C. And said 
Admiral had made clear that in applying for a pre-approved loan it wasnt a guarantee of 
acceptance. 
Mr C didnt agree, he remains unhappy as he feels he was mis-led into applying for the loan. 
He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
As explained by our investigator we arent the regulator that is the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Our role is to see whether Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably in their 
actions with Mr C. 
I can understand Mr Cs frustration as he thought by being pre-approved his application 
would be accepted. But Admiral can decide who they want to lend to  this is part of their 
commercial decision-making remit. Id expect a business to give the primary reason, when 
asked by the consumer, for declining the application. But theres no obligation for a business 
to go beyond this once its shared the reason with a potential consumer. 
Mr C said the wording on the sites should be made clearer to prevent the inference that the 
loan would be approved. Hes sent us screenshots which do say that his application with the 
lender will be successful. But the same screenshot also says there are instances where this 
could be invalidated. And I can see the comparison site does qualify the pre-approval saying 
its based on the information they have access to.
From what I can see Mr C was pre-approved on the comparison site for an Admiral loan, and 
he was transferred from this site to Admirals own website to progress his application. I take 
on board Mr C was given a pre-approved message, but I think its clear this was always 
subject to further verification by the lender, in this case Admiral. And one of the reasons I 
can see given why the pre-approval may be invalidated is where credit information that 
Admiral didnt have access to would impact Mr Cs credit worthiness. 
Admiral said they declined Mr Cs application as they said they became aware of another 
loan that wasnt evident on the credit file they had. I can see from the credit check Admiral 
did that it showed Mr C had two active loans. When Admiral checked with Mr C about his 
financial situation, he told them hed three loans. And Mr C has sent us a screenshot of the 
credit file information he had, and this shows hed three active loans. But this differs from 
the credit information that Admiral had access to and impacted Mr Cs credit worthiness.
Admiral has already given reasons for why they decided not to offer Mr C a loan. They said 
after further checks and consideration of his credit report, they decided to decline his 
application. I think Admiral has done what Id expect it to in terms of explaining why it chose 
not to offer Mr C a loan. And I think it was clear that pre-approval isnt a guarantee that the 
loan application would be accepted. So, I cant say Admiral acted unfairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman