DRN-3376632
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was given unsuitable investment advice by Premier Benefit Solutions 
Limited trading as Premier Wealth Planning (PWP). Hes unhappy with their advice to invest 
in the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF) as he thinks it carried a higher level of risk than 
was appropriate for his circumstances at the time.
What happened
Mr S received investment advice from PWP in January 2016. A financial review from the 
time noted that he had a reasonable knowledge of investments and a moderate attitude to 
risk (ATR). He was aged 54, in good health and married with two financially dependent 
children. He had an annual income of £150,000 and a joint monthly expenditure of around 
£5,000. He and his wife owned two properties worth a combined £2m with an outstanding 
mortgage of £200,000. He had a SIPP worth around £605,000 and cash of around £50,000 
held jointly with his wife. 
PWP advised him to invest his SIPP holdings in their Premier Moderate Growth Portfolio. 
The Portfolio invested in a range of funds, one of which was the WEIF. They also advised 
him to invest 100% of his childrens portfolios in the WEIF. 
In October 2016 Mr S took £15,000 from his initial investment in the WEIF and in July 2017, 
he sold his childrens investments in the WEIF. Trading in the WEIF was suspended in June 
2019. Mr S complained to PWP in December 2019 about the recommendation to invest in 
the WEIF and about charges that had been taken from his childrens investments. PWP 
partially upheld the complaint and said, in summary:
The WEIF wasnt an unsuitable recommendation when taken into account with the 
other holdings in Mr S portfolio and his investment objectives.
They were satisfied that Mr S had been made verbally aware and had been given 
sufficient documentation about the makeup and risk elements of the WEIF.
They had no record of Mr S raising any concerns about the WEIF prior to its 
suspension.
They accepted that an agreement had been reached regarding no initial or ongoing 
fees to be taken from his children's investments and offered a refund of the charges 
taken.
Mr S didnt agree with their findings and brought the complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld and said, in summary:
From what hed seen Mr S portfolio was suitably balanced between low-risk assets 
such as cash and property and high-risk assets such as equities. Mr S holdings in 
the WEIF only equated to around 3% of his overall portfolio. Therefore, he didnt think 
the inclusion of the WEIF in Mr S portfolio made the level of risk unsuitable. 
At the time the advice was given, Mr S had shown an interest in UK Equity income 
funds. Notes from the January 2016 meeting said : *** stated that he is looking for 
the fund to comfortably outperform inflation and cash deposits and he very much 
likes my idea of utilising a UK Equity Dividend fund and the underlying asset 
allocation, which has a bias towards more defensive blue chip stocks. 
The investigator noted that the WEIF aimed to: Provide a reasonable level of income 
together with capital growth. He also noted that in 2016 it had provided a historic 
income yield of 3.4% and around 50% of the fund holdings were invested in 
companies worth over £5bn. He thought this demonstrated that the WEIF was 
compatible with the fund characteristics Mr S was looking for and therefore wasnt an 
unsuitable choice. 
He thought the advice to invest Mr S childrens funds solely into the WEIF was 
arguably unsuitable due to the lack of diversification. But given that the investments 
were later sold and replaced with another singular investment, he wasnt persuaded 
that any different advice would have changed things and noted that the investments 
had generated a strong return by the time they were sold. Therefore, on balance, he 
didnt think Mr S had lost out from the lack of diversification.
He thought the WEIFs key investor information document (KIID) set out its 
investment policy and made it clear the fund had the potential to invest in a range of 
investments, including unquoted illiquid stocks, to achieve its aim. 
He hadnt seen evidence of an explicit statement made by PWP at the time that the 
WEIF included investments in unquoted, potentially illiquid stocks. But he was 
persuaded the potential for exposure to unquoted illiquid investments and the risks 
associated with this, were brought to Mr S attention.
The investigator hadnt seen that any questions were raised about the funds 
underlying holdings at the time despite the information provided. 
He noted that the overall holdings in small companies (those worth less than £250m) 
within the WEIF was very low at the time  less than 7%. And the WEIF was also 
considered at the time to be a high-quality UK Equity Income fund. Therefore, he 
wasnt persuaded PWP made an error or that a different course of action would have 
been taken if theyd done more to highlight the WEIFs holding in smaller companies.
PWP had refunded all charges relating to Mr S childrens investments so he didnt 
think they needed to take any further action in relation to this point.
Mr S didnt agree with his findings and said, in summary:
The investigator had said that the riskiness of the WEIF had been diluted by the other 
holdings in his portfolio but the makeup of the portfolio hed referenced wasnt a true 
reflection of the fully invested portfolio hed been trying to achieve  the fact that it 
contained over 50% Money Market and Property holdings demonstrated that it was a 
temporary holding ahead of drip-feeding the cash into the markets over time.
The WEIF was very risky, adventurous fund and had no place in a portfolio for a 
balanced investor.
There were doubts expressed in media coverage at the time about the WEIF but 
PWP didn't look into it enough and just followed general sentiment and the funds 
track record.The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think this complaint should be upheld, I will now explain why.
The financial review from 2016 set out that Mr S was looking to move his SIPP away from a 
discretionary relationship with another business (B1) as he wasnt happy with its 
performance. He was also looking to simplify his childrens investments and move their 
existing holdings and cash into a new portfolio.
He was assessed as having a moderate ATR and was looking to invest for another 10 years 
before he retired. Hed previously held investments in ISAs, OEICs and individual shares but 
didnt describe himself as an experienced investor and preferred to take advice regarding 
any investment decisions. It had previously been recorded that he had the capacity to 
replace any losses from a large cash holding in his business and hed previously 
experienced losses with no immediate effect.  
Taking all this into account, I think I can be reasonably confident that Mr S was prepared to 
accept some risk for the sake of financial reward in the medium to long term. PWP 
recommended that he move his SIPP to their Premier Moderate Growth Portfolio  which 
included the WEIF - and his childrens investments to the WEIF.
Ive considered if the WEIF was suitable to be included in Mr S portfolio. The objective 
stated in its 2016 fund factsheet was: To provide a reasonable level of income together with 
capital growth. This will be achieved by investing primarily in UK listed companies. From 
what Ive seen of Mr S objectives, I dont think the this was inconsistent with what he 
wanted. However, I note that it had a risk rating of 5 out 7, which in isolation was riskier than 
Mr S ATR. So, Ive also considered the makeup of his portfolio and what he had been told at 
the time of the initial recommendation.
From what Ive seen the WEIF made up a small part of Mr S' SIPP. Ive seen a valuation 
from November 2016 which shows that the WEIF only made up around 3.5% of his SIPP 
which at the time was valued at around £673,000. I dont think its unreasonable for a 
portfolio to include products that are lower or higher risk than an investors stated ATR  
provided the overall balance of the portfolio is suitable. 
The report Mr S was given in 2016 by PWP said Please be aware that there may be 
occasions when an individual fund may have a higher risk rating than your overall stated 
attitude to risk. If this is the case, then the overall risk rating applied to all of the combined 
funds being recommended is still designed to meet your stated tolerance. I explained this 
during our meeting and you were comfortable with this approach. So, I dont think its 
unreasonable to suggest that Mr S ought reasonably to have been aware that his portfolio 
might contain investments in higher risk products, which would be balanced out by lower risk 
investments. 
I take the point Mr S has made that the cash holding was high at the time. This appears to 
be partially due to profit taking of around £60,000 on some of his equity-based investments 
in September 2016 and £35,000 in October 2016. But even if the £95,000 had remained 
invested the split of his portfolio would have been approximately 23% UK Equities, 29% 
Money Market Instruments, 9% Property, 17% Overseas Equities, 13% Multi Asset, 9% Specialist. On balance, Im not persuaded that this asset split was inappropriate for an 
investor with a moderate ATR.
Taking everything into account and given the nature of the WEIF, I dont think that its 
inclusion in Mr S SIPP was unsuitable at the time. It constituted a small percentage of his 
portfolio at the time and was balanced out by other lower risk investments held within the 
portfolio - specifically a higher percentage of cash-based holdings. 
A balanced or moderate portfolio will vary in its makeup, depending on a range of factors 
specific to the investor and their circumstances. As Ive previously said, I think Mr S ought to 
have been aware of the how the portfolio would be made up and he accepted the principle of 
higher risk investments being balanced out by other lower risk investments in the creation of 
a moderate portfolio.
Therefore, I don't think I can fairly say that an investment of around 3% invested in the 
WEIF, despite the higher risks it carried, was in this instance unsuitable within a moderate 
risk portfolio for Mr S.
Ive then considered the advice to invest Mr S childrens funds into the WEIF. Ive thought 
about if the recommendation to invest in the WEIF was suitable for Mr S in respect of his 
objectives for his children  and if he was given reasonable information about it. Mr S stated 
objective for his childrens investments was to tidy up the investments you hold for ****** and 
******, adding their existing Scottish Widows Unit Trusts to the wrap platform having the 
ability to add further cash to these accounts from the HSBC funds.
The funds were previously invested in the Scottish Widows Balanced Growth Portfolio Fund 
which was a medium risk fund. The WEIF was slightly riskier and it was noted that PWP had 
considered retaining the Scottish Widows investment and making internal fund switches to 
ensure that the funds were invested in accordance with Mr S risk profile. However, this was 
discounted as Mr S requested that we add the Scottish Widows Investment to your existing 
standard life wrap platform to simplify your finances and to allow you to add further cash to 
these accounts.
Ive also seen an email exchange where Mr S said I agree with the Woodford UK equity 
income for the children and confirm you should put the £20k I gave you into that investment. 
The investments were sold in 2017 and the funds were then used to purchase the Fundsmith 
Equity Fund which carried a similar level of risk to the WEIF. So, on balance, Im persuaded 
that Mr S was willing to take a slightly higher level of risk for his childrens investments 
compared to his own portfolio. That being said, I share the investigators concern with the 
lack of diversification, but given Mr S objective was to simplify the investments, I dont think 
the recommendation was unsuitable. 
In summary, I appreciate the concerns Mr S has raised. But having taken everything into 
account, I dont think I can fairly say PWP acted incorrectly and I wont be asking them to 
take any further action in respect of the advice they gave to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman