DRN-4119678
The complaint
Mr H complains that CB Payments Ltd wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr H fell victim to an investment scam and was persuaded to send 
cryptocurrency to his investment. Between January 2021 and September 2021, he deposited 
money into his electronic money account with CB Payments. He then used these funds to 
purchase cryptocurrency from a separate business  Coinbase Europe. He then sent this 
cryptocurrency from his Coinbase Europe account to the scammer. Overall, he lost just 
under £110,000.
Mr H later realised hed fallen victim to a scam and complained to Coinbase. It responded on 
behalf of both CB Payments and Coinbase Europe to say they did not own or control the 
recipient of the cryptocurrency and had no information on that. They said transactions 
completed using cryptocurrency were irreversible. They felt as Mr H didnt deny authorising 
the transactions, they couldnt be held responsible for his loss.
Unhappy with this answer Mr H referred the complaint to our service  saying that 
CB Payments should have noticed how unusual these payments were and picked up on 
them under their anti-money laundering (AML) obligations.
CB Payments argued that the complaint wasnt one for our service to consider, as it didnt 
relate to the electronic money account, but rather to the provision of cryptocurrency services 
by Coinbase Europe.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Initially they felt this wasnt a complaint 
our service can consider, saying that Mr Hs losses were caused by the transfer of the 
cryptocurrency rather than anything to do with the electronic money services. Mr H 
disagreed and requested the complaint be decided by an ombudsman. The investigator later 
reconsidered this and said that there were aspects we could consider  such as whether 
CB Payments had properly met their AML obligations to monitor Mr Hs account.
This was accepted by both parties. CB Payments submitted further information to say that 
there had been nothing to suggest there were problems with Mr Hs transactions, such that 
they would have carried out further AML checks that would have revealed the scam. As such 
they didnt feel there was reason for them to refund him his losses.
The complaint was passed to me to decide the merits of the case. After reviewing the 
evidence, I issued my provisional decision which said:
Theres also no dispute that Mr H is the victim of a cruel scam and has lost a considerable 
sum of money. Ive no doubt this has had a considerable and ongoing impact on him. But Im 
not persuaded that its reasonable for CB Payments to refund his loss. Ill explain why.
Its accepted that Mr H made the deposits into his CB Payments account, and then 
authorised the purchases on cryptocurrency. Under the relevant regulations the starting 
position is that the payments are authorised, and Mr H is liable for any losses that result from 
this.
CB Payments primary obligation to Mr H is to fulfil his payment instructions promptly when 
received. But like all regulated businesses, they have ongoing legal and regulatory 
obligations to monitor accounts to look for signs of risk. Mr H has highlighted their AML 
obligations. But here Ive also considered what the industry best practice was for monitoring 
accounts for signs their consumer may be falling victim to fraud or financial harm. This does 
include looking for transactions that are particularly unusual or out of character. 
In certain circumstances there would be an expectation CB Payments would take additional 
steps to verify payment instructions or carry out additional checks, before allowing a 
payment instruction to progress.
Mr H had already opened his CB Payments account before he was contacted by the 
scammer  and it hadnt been used regularly up to this point. So, it would have been difficult 
to say what the normal account operation would be. I also bear in mind that the product 
offered by CB Payments is quite a niche product  its used almost exclusively to accept 
deposits that are then used to purchase cryptocurrency. So, it isnt like a bank account 
where a regular pattern of purchases and transactions could be built up. So, Im not minded 
that the way Mr H used his account wouldnt have stood out as particularly unusual that 
CB Payments should have intervened. Particularly as the transactions in effect came in from 
his own bank account, and then left to the cryptocurrency account in his name.
Ive also seen nothing to suggest that CB Payments would have been on notice that Mr H 
would be particularly vulnerable to an investment scam or should have reasonably drawn 
that conclusion from the account usage. His account was already open when he was drawn 
into the scam  which suggests to me he was already interested in purchasing and trading 
cryptocurrency. The account opening documents say the purpose of his Coinbase account 
was trading on other exchanges.
But even if CB Payments had seen something that gave them concern, this wouldnt have 
necessarily uncovered the scam. For this to happen CB Payments would have needed to 
have a detailed discussion with Mr H about the transactions he was making and give 
relevant warnings about the dangers of investment scams. But my understanding of the 
wider circumstances of this complaint is that Mr H had conversations along these lines with 
his bank in January 2021  and wasnt dissuaded from making the transactions. Im not 
satisfied an intervention from CB Payments would have prevented any further loss  and in 
any case Im not satisfied an intervention was necessary.
Lastly, Im satisfied that as Mr H sent his cryptocurrency off the Coinbase platform it follows 
that they wouldnt be recoverable by CB Payments.
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr H, and Ive no doubt that this 
entire situation has been distressing. But I cant see that CB Payments have done anything 
wrong or caused the losses to him. As such Im not directing them to do anything further.
CB Payments accepted this as an outcome. Mr H disagreed. He said the transactions were 
unusual enough to had raised red flags. He said CB Payments hadnt followed their 
regulatory AML requirements. He said the provisional decision was based on assumptions.
It now falls on me to review the evidence afresh and issue my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied with the conclusions reached in my provisional decision.
For clarity this decision solely covers the actions of CB Payments when providing Mr H with 
the electronic money account, and any acts or omissions by them. It does not cover any 
alleged acts or omissions by Coinbase Europe in the handling of a cryptocurrency account.
Its not disputed Mr H made the payments from his CB Payments account  so under the 
relevant regulations they are treated as authorised payments. Generally, this means Mr H is 
liable for any authorised transactions, so theres no automatic right to a refund even if the 
payment is made as part of a scam.
Mr H has highlighted provisions within AML regulations that he feels show CB Payments 
failed in their duty to protect. I did consider CB Payments AML obligations before issuing my 
provisional decision. I dont agree that these AML regulations are directly comparable to 
fraud or scam prevention measures. These regulations outline the responsibilities for 
financial businesses to pick up on attempts to disguise the true origin of funds, or to mix 
fraudulent funds with genuine funds. 
But that isnt what happened here. Theres no dispute that Mr H genuinely opened his 
CB Payments account with his genuine details. The funds paid in were his own, from a bank 
account in his own name. And they were then used to fund cryptocurrency purchases from 
Coinbase Europe in his own name. So, I dont see there has been a failing in AML controls 
in relation to the opening of Mr Hs account or these payments, as there has never been an 
attempt to disguise or conceal the nature of the funds. 
And even if there were a breach of AML regulations  and to be clear, Im not making a 
finding there was  then it doesnt follow that Mr H is entitled to a refund of transactions he 
authorised. Theres no provision for this in the highlighted legislation.
Ive considered the relevant industry guidance on preventing fraud and scams  along with 
CB Payments obligations to monitor Mr Hs accounts for signs of fraud or financial harm. So, 
the key question is whether CB Payments should have done more to protect his account. 
I appreciate Mr H feels these transactions should have been thrown up red flags, but Im still 
minded that this isnt the case. There were smaller scale payments through the CB 
Payments account several months beforehand. But I dont agree this would be enough to set 
a pattern that means CB Payments would have cause to question Mr H about the 
transactions further. Likewise, the use of the funds to purchase cryptocurrency  which was 
then transferred out of the wallet  isnt something I consider alarming given the intended 
use of the account. 
So, I dont see that CB Payments missed an obvious opportunity to prevent the scam from 
happening, such that they should be liable for refunding Mr H.
Mr H has also referred to a court case involving Coinbase in the US. But this court will have 
considered the legislation and regulation in its own jurisdiction. It doesnt follow that it would 
have an impact on Mr Hs complaint  which has its own circumstances and took place in a 
different jurisdiction.Overall, I appreciate that Mr H feels very strongly about his complaint and has suffered a 
considerable loss. But I dont see that CB Payments have done anything unreasonable or 
unfair in allowing these transactions to go through. I dont think it reasonable to expect them 
to cover Mr Hs losses, and as such Im not asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman