DRN-3721965
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with information it was 
provided about Mrs Ws health, in relation to her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a travel insurance policy, which was provided as part of their packaged 
bank account. This provided cover for various risks, for Mr and Mrs W, and their children.
In February 2021, Mr and Mrs booked a trip abroad. With them due to be travelling on their 
trip, on 26 May 2022. At the time of booking the trip, Mr and Mrs W paid a deposit for the 
holiday  with the remaining balance due at a later date.
A couple of months later, in around August 2021, the family caught the Coronavirus. Mr W 
and his children didnt experience any lasting issues following this. But Mrs W unfortunately 
did. She started suffering from asthma-like symptoms. This wasnt something Mrs W 
experienced before. Because of this, Mrs W was referred to the Long-Covid clinic and 
prescribed an inhaler. 
In March 2022, Mr and Mrs W contacted Aviva, to let it know about the above. At this point, 
Aviva let Mr and Mrs W know that it would provide cover for Mrs W, for any costs booked 
before Mrs W fell ill with Coronavirus. But it wouldnt provide cover for Mrs W for anything in 
relation to Coronavirus, after she fell ill in August 2021.
Mr and Mrs W didnt think this was fair. They said Mrs Ws experience of suffering from 
Long-Covid didnt make her any more likely to contract Coronavirus itself. So, they felt it was 
unfair for Aviva to exclude any cover for Mrs W, in relation to Coronavirus, following August 
2021. Because Mr and Mrs W were unhappy, they raised a complaint with Aviva about this.
Aviva responded and maintained its position. It said it had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of its policy, in noting it would provide cover for costs spent before Mrs W became 
unwell. Aviva also said it had been correct to exclude cover for Coronavirus following Mrs 
Ws illness, because she wasnt symptom-free. And its cover didnt provide for Coronavirus 
related incidents where the person in question was still experiencing symptoms.
Mr and Mrs W remained dissatisfied with this. So, they referred their complaint to this service 
for an independent review. They explained to our service that they had cancelled their 
insurance with Aviva now. And taken out cover elsewhere. They noted the cover they had 
taken elsewhere required Mr and Mrs W to pay an additional premium for Mrs Ws medical 
situation. And they felt that was something Aviva should have been able to do.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Our 
investigator reviewed Mr and Mrs Ws policy and said Aviva had acted in line with the terms 
of the policy, by saying it would cover costs paid before Mrs W became unwell.  
Our investigator also said that Aviva were entitled to decide what cover it was willing to 
provide. And they had seen evidence that Aviva wouldnt provide cover for any claims 
related to Mrs W having Coronavirus, following Mrs W becoming unwell. So, she didnt think 
Aviva had acted unfairly here either.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They explained that they understood why Aviva might not want 
to cover anything linked to Long-Covid. But they didnt consider it fair for Aviva to exclude 
cover for Coronavirus for Mrs W, after August 2021, because she wasnt any more likely to 
catch the virus than anyone else.
Because Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
When considering a complaint of this nature, I need to consider the terms and conditions of 
the policy held at the time  as these form the contract the parties agreed to when the policy 
was taken out. So, Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws policy. 
I can see that, under Section A. Your health Mr and Mrs Ws policy explains when Mr and 
Mrs W need to provide it with health information. It says that:
After booking a trip  but before travelling  if after the trip has been booked you are 
referred to a consultant/specialist or admitted to hospital, you will be covered for cancellation 
of your trip and we will pay for your travel costs you had paid before this happened. If you 
still wish to travel you must call the Medical Risk Assessment helpline and we will assess the 
condition(s) and tell you if we are able to cover the condition(s). If we are unable to cover the 
condition(s) but you still wish to go on the trip, we will not cover any claim arising directly or 
indirectly from the condition(s).
Given the above, Im aware that Avivas policy confirms it will provide cancellation cover for 
travel costs paid before referral to a consultant or specialist. This is what Aviva confirmed it 
would do. It said it would provide cover for costs paid before Mrs Ws referral for Long-Covid. 
So, Im satisfied it acted in line with the policy here.
I also understand that Mr and Mrs W complied with the above terms, by contacting the 
Medical Risk Assessment helpline as required. So, I havent needed to consider anything 
more here.
But what I have needed to consider is whether, after Mr and Mrs W contacted the Medical 
Risk Assessment helpline, Aviva acted fairly.
Ive listened to the conversation Mr W had with Aviva, when it called to updated them of 
Mrs Ws health. On the call, Avivas representative confirmed that for Aviva to cover Mrs W if 
she contracted Covid-19 in the future, Mrs W would need to fit certain criteria  which 
included Mrs W being symptom free. But, because Mrs W wasnt symptom free, she 
wouldnt be covered for contracting Covid-19 in the future. Or for costs for treatment related 
to the previous incident of Covid-19, if this was needed whilst on holiday. The representative 
also confirmed that anything paid before Mrs W contacted Covid would be paid, as per the 
policy terms. Aviva also confirmed that once Mrs W had been to the Long-Covid clinic, it 
could re-screen Mrs W, to see if the situation changed. Which I think is fair, as there may be 
a change in risk at that point.Ive looked to see whether this information was correct. And Im satisfied it was. Aviva has 
provided evidence to show me that if a policyholder was still experiencing symptoms of 
Covid-19, it wouldnt provide cover for future costs in relation to it. Only what had already 
been paid for. As Aviva applied its criteria correctly, and in line with the policy terms above, 
Im satisfied it acted fairly in the decision it made here.
I understand that Mr and Mrs W dont feel this was fair. But, its Aviva decision as to what it 
will cover, and on what terms. So, whilst I appreciate another provider may have been willing 
to offer Mr and Mrs W cover, on different terms, and for an additional premium, this doesnt 
mean that Aviva have to do the same. Aviva has applied the criteria it holds for all 
policyholders. So, it hasnt treated Mr and Mrs W any differently from anyone else in the 
same situation. So, Im satisfied it hasnt acted unfairly. And I dont require it to do anything 
differently here. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman