The complaint
Miss J has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) has, on several occasions, 
provided her with an incorrect balance in relation to a debt.
What happened
In 2010 a court separated a debt owed to BOS by Miss J and her former partner, and each 
was required to separately pay £12,500 at a rate of £75 per month. Miss J duly made 
payments to a debt collection agency appointed by BOS. 
BOS wrote to Miss J in May 2018 to advise it was transferring the debt to a different debt 
collection agency. At that stage it listed the account balance as £4,130. The debt collection 
agency also wrote to Miss J on the same day and provided her with the same account 
balance. It asked Miss J to ensure all future payments were made to it and advised that Miss 
J would need to set up a new payment plan. 
The debt collection agency then wrote to Miss J about a year later and listed her account 
balance as £17,450.85. In the main body of the same letter, it said the balance was £10,915 
and payments of £1,585 had been made. It provided Miss J with a list of payments made 
since 2011. Miss J complained to BOS that none of the balances provided seemed to be 
correct and that she hadnt been provided with a list of payments. 
BOS responded in August 2019 and didnt uphold the complaint. It said the debt collection 
agency was aware it provided the wrong outstanding balance. BOS said the correct 
outstanding balance was £10,915. It said there were issues with payments as some were 
made in error to the first debt collection agency, when they should have been made to the 
new debt collection agency. BOS said the new debt collection agency had advised Miss J 
that she should send proof of payments and it would look into the matter further.  
Miss J was unhappy with the response. She complained to our service and said she wanted 
the following: 
a statement from BOS showing all payments received and the total amount owed
an understanding of what figures BOS passed to their debt collectors
to know why the collection agency are chasing an amount they know to be wrong
an official rebuke against BOS for its behaviour
Our investigator said hes seen copies of Miss Js bank statements showing that payments 
had been made regularly for many years. And he said the total of these payments seems to 
far exceed what BOS said it has received. He said BOS told him that although the original 
debt with Miss Js former partner was split, BOS had been entering payments from both 
parties on one account and then attempting to move payments to the correct accounts. 
DRN-1562406Our investigator said, overall, he didnt think BOS has kept a good record of the account and 
the outstanding amount doesnt appear to be correct. He said to put things right, BOS need 
to liaise with Miss J and Miss J should provide a record of her payments to BOS, so that it 
can correctly calculate the outstanding balance. He also asked BOS to pay Miss J £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
BOS said when a consumer disagrees with the amount outstanding, its up to the consumer 
to provide proof, such as bank statements, of what payments the consumer made. It 
accepted our investigators assessment and agreed to pay £200 compensation. 
Miss J responded to our investigator and was initially reluctant to agree to provide her 
payment history to BOS. She first of all wanted to know how BOS arrived at the balance 
figure it sent to her and wanted it to trace the funds through the references it gave her to 
use. Our investigator said this wouldnt make a difference to resolving her complaint - to 
know how and why BOS havent provided the correct balance isnt going to help to put this 
right. He said the way to put this right is for Miss J to provide her payment history to BOS. 
Miss J is reluctant to provide her payment history to the current debt collection agency as 
she believes the problems shes had started with it. She said she would do it only if she was 
given the name and contact details of a manager there who has the authority to deal with the 
correction of the errors. BOS said its not for managers to liaise with consumers to sort out 
balance shortfalls. It said the debt will remain at the current level until Miss J provides her 
payment history. So this complaint has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint in part. 
Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made, but Ive limited my response to the 
issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is whether Miss J has been provided 
with an incorrect balance and what steps might need to be taken to put this right. 
When BOS appointed a new debt collection agency in 2018, some discrepancies with the 
outstanding balance owed by Miss J came to light. These discrepancies appear to have 
arisen in part because BOS entered payments made by both Miss J and her former partner 
into a single account instead of into separate accounts. It then split the payments 
proportionately across each individual debt. In addition, payments were incorrectly made to 
the former debt collection agency for a period of time by Miss J and this may have also 
contributed to the wrong balance being calculated. 
I can see that the outstanding balance provided by the former debt collection agency in 2013 
was £10,475. I can also see from the bank statements Miss J has provided us with that she 
has often made payments of £75, then £85 per month. So although I dont know how much 
Miss Js outstanding balance is  thats for BOS or its agent to calculate  Im satisfied its 
highly likely the balance outstanding should now be quite a lot less than it was in 2013 and 
therefore less than the balance of £10,915 provided by BOS in 2019. So Im satisfied BOS is 
more likely than not to have made an error and provided Miss J with an incorrect balance. 
BOS has asked Miss J to provide it with a list of all of the payments she believes shes made 
to it. It said if a consumer feels that an account balance is incorrect, its up to the consumer 
to provide information to show if thats the case. In order to minimise the inconvenience to 
Miss J and to try to provide a speedy outcome, our investigator offered to provide BOS with 
the payment information Miss J had given to us, but she declined. Im satisfied that the best way forward is for Miss J to provide her payment history to BOS 
and for BOS to reconcile the two sets of payments, so it can provide the correct outstanding 
balance to Miss J. Although I realise this will inconvenience Miss J, and ultimately its outside 
my remit to tell Miss J what to do, I cant see any other way for BOS to know what payments 
have actually been made by Miss J. It simply doesnt seem to have the correct payment 
history and her input is needed. Ultimately, its up to Miss J if she wants to do this, but I think 
its the best next step. 
I can see that Miss J has agreed to do this, but she doesnt want to provide the information 
to the debt collection agency unless shes provided with the name and contact details of a 
manager who has the authority to deal with the correction of the possible errors. BOS said 
Miss J should contact its specialist team rather than a manager and its provided a contact 
number. I think BOS acted fairly when it asked Miss J to ring its specialist team. Its for BOS 
to decide who is best placed to deal with Miss Js query and it is allowed to ask any agency 
to carry out work on its behalf. 
Turning to the question of compensation, although BOS hasnt had the opportunity to 
reconcile their list of payments received with Miss Js list of payments made, it has accepted 
that our investigator has seen both payment histories and considers its highly likely BOS are 
at fault and Miss J owes less money than it thinks she owes. And this is why its agreed to a 
compensation payment of £200, in advance of Miss J actually providing it with her payment 
history. Im satisfied this is the right amount of compensation for the inconvenience Miss J 
has already experienced and is likely to experience, if she provides her payment history. 
Miss J is also concerned that BOS may have breached a court order by not separating the 
debts owed by her and her former partner. This isnt something our service can look at. If 
Miss J feels the order has been breached, then she would need to take this back to the 
relevant court for it to decide whether a breach has happened. 
Miss J has also said she would like a copy of her entire customer record with BOS. Again, 
this isnt something our service can deal with, so Miss J will need to make a subject access 
request directly to BOS. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and ask Bank of Scotland plc to pay 
Miss J the sum of £200 compensation. I also require it to ensure that it, or any agency 
working on its behalf, reconciles its payment history with Miss Js payment history, if Miss J 
provides it with this information.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.  
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman