DRN-2411799
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
In 2001, Mr and Mrs W took out PPI alongside a joint mortgage as part of a total mortgage 
protection plan (TMPP) to protect their mortgage repayments. This covered Mr W in the 
event he wasnt able to work. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding their mis-sale complaint. Mr and Mrs W 
disagree. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs W said they had no recollection of taking out PPI and it wasnt 
something they needed as they had other means to rely on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Usually Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been presented. Halifax hasnt been able to provide anything 
signed by Mr and Mrs W to show how they agreed to take out the PPI. But I dont think thats 
surprising. The PPI was sold around 19 years ago. I wouldnt expect Halifax or 
Mr and Mrs W to have kept the paperwork for this long. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Mr and Mrs W have said, but what they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely  and 
make reasonable assumptions where necessary.
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax used to sell PPI around this 
time. And we already know from looking at other cases what the process was when Halifax 
sold TMPP. Ive no reason to think that Halifax wouldnt have followed its normal sales 
process here. 
So, whilst its understandable Mr and Mrs W have forgotten this after so long, I think its likely 
that PPI was discussed and recommended to them. 
And I think Mr and Mrs W wouldve been aware at the time that it was up to them to say 
whether or not they wanted to have any of this insurance cover.
Their mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Ws home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. The PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly repayments were 
protected. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. On balance, I think its more 
likely that Mr and Mrs W decided they wanted to have the benefits PPI could offer. And the 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover was added to their mortgage at their request 
when they chose to buy it to cover Mr W.
I think its fair to look at this complaint on the basis that Halifax recommended PPI to 
Mr and Mrs W, as it says it wouldve done, even if Mr and Mrs W dont remember this. Thats 
because if a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give 
important policy information in a clear way. It has an extra obligation to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. So looking at the complaint this way 
gives Mr and Mrs Ws complaint the best chance of success.
It doesnt look like PPI was an unsuitable recommendation based on what Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time.  
As Mr W was the main earner I can see why it would make sense to protect his income. 
Mrs W had other cover under the TMPP. So I think its likely that the way the policy benefits 
were set up reflected Mr and Mrs Ws wishes at the time. 
The policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim if Mr W was unable to work 
because of accident or sickness. PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 24 months per claim if 
he became unexpectedly unemployed. 
Looking at what theyve told us about their financial circumstances at the time, it looks like 
the PPI provided Mr and Mrs W with better protection that they wouldve had otherwise. 
I dont know how long its likely that Mrs W wouldve been able to keep up the mortgage 
monthly repayments on her own if Mr W was unable to work as she contributed around half 
the amount Mr W earned to the joint household income. And its possible that, in the event of 
an unfortunate joint accident, she might have been off work as well and Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have been able to rely on her income at all once her sick pay stopped. PPI provided 
dependable cover that protected their home so it couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult 
time  bearing in mind also that Mr and Mrs W mightve faced extra costs as a result of being 
off work sick or with a disability. 
Redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped if Mr W was off work sick. PPI wouldve paid out 
in addition to any redundancy money he mightve got, giving Mr and Mrs W some additional 
financial security if Mr W had lost his job. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Repeat claims were possible providing long term protection for their mortgage.
So I think the PPI was suitable.  
Mr W wasnt affected by any of the main conditions limiting the policys benefits. So I think it 
unlikely that knowing more about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put Mr and Mrs W off 
taking it out. Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out when they didnt have to have it and 
so appear to have wanted this type of cover. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs W. They took out other cover 
under the TMPP so it doesnt look like keeping costs down was a priority for them at the 
time.
Taking into account the cost and the monthly benefit that would be paid if a successful claim 
was made I think the policy couldve provided Mr and Mrs W with a worthwhile benefit.  
Overall, I think it unlikely that Mr and Mrs W wouldve made a different decision about taking 
out PPI if Halifax had given them better information. So, even if there were failings in the way 
Halifax sold them PPI, I dont find theyve lost out as a result of anything that Halifax did 
wrong.
 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs to give back to Mr and Mrs W some of the 
commission they paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. 
As Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont 
apply. So Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs W paid for the 
PPI they had with that mortgage.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman