DRN-2017593
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Miss J says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Miss J took out the PPI policy when she opened a store card account in a shop in 1998.
The policy covered Miss Js monthly payments under the credit agreement if she was unable 
to work because of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It also included some purchase 
protection cover and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss J didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Js case.
I've decided not to uphold Miss J's complaint. I'll explain why.
Miss J says PPI wasnt discussed with her at any point, and if it was attached to her 
account, this was done without her consent or understanding.
I've seen a copy of Miss Js application for the store card. It includes a short section on 
Payment & Purchase Protection (a form of PPI). Theres a box to tick if the applicant 
wishes to take PPI. It says Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment and Purchase 
Protection Insurance, and it continues Please debit my Account with the relevant 
monthly premium until further notice. Theres a tick in the box to indicate that Miss J 
wished to take the cover.
I can't know what, if anything, was discussed at the time of the application. But I think the 
form made it clear that the PPI was optional. And I think it would have been reasonable 
to expect Miss J to check over the document she was signing. The section about PPI 
was reasonably prominent, and it included brief details of the cover. If Miss J had any 
questions, or was in any doubt as to whether she wanted to take the cover, she could 
have asked.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that AXA made it clear that the PPI wasnt 
compulsory. And I think it was added to Miss J's account because she chose to take it   
although I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so many years later.
AXA didn't advise Miss J to take out the policy. This means it didnt have to check if it 
was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it gave Miss J enough information to 
enable her to decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means shed 
have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work, or if she lost her 
job.
I've borne in mind that Miss J's told us that she'd have been entitled to three months half 
pay, followed by statutory sick pay if shed been off sick. But if shed made a successful 
claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid a monthly 
benefit 15% of what she owed on her store card. And it would have done this each month 
until her credit agreement ended, or she returned to work, or the outstanding balance at 
time of her claim had been repaid - whichever was the earliest. So it would potentially 
have covered her for longer than shed have been entitled to sick pay for. And it would 
have paid the same benefit if Miss J had lost her job. Whats more, it would have paid out 
in addition to any payments Miss J received from her employer, allowing her to use those 
to cover other day-to-day expenses. 
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful for Miss J, 
especially as shes told us that aside from her sick pay, she didnt have any other means 
she could have fallen back on to meet her monthly store card repayments if she was off 
sick. 
It's possible the information AXA gave Miss J about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should 
have been. But Im satisfied that she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks as if she 
wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now. She was 
eligible for the policy, and based on what shes told us, she doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main things it didnt cover.
The store card application form made it clear that monthly premiums would be payable 
for the PPI. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Miss J. 
So taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the 
PPI would have put her off taking it out. 
The premiums for the PPI would have been visible on Miss J's monthly statements. And 
as she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time if she decided 
she no longer wanted it, or if her circumstances changed. I acknowledge that Miss Js 
representatives have commented that if shed known she could cancel the policy, she 
would have done so. But if shed wanted to cancel the policy, I think its likely shed have 
contacted AXA to enquire about doing so, and Ive seen nothing to suggest she did this.
I'm sorry to disappoint Miss J, but for the reasons I've set out, I don't find that shes lost 
out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong, so there's nothing it needs to do to put 
things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman