DRN-2170825
The complaint
Mr T complains The Co-operative Bank plc (Co-op) unfairly applied a default to his credit 
file after telling him it wouldnt and despite him communicating regularly about his account.
What happened
Mr T had a current account with Co-op which provided an overdraft facility. It was opened in 
March 2013. In August 2018, as Mr T had been struggling to repay the overdraft, a 
repayment plan was set up to slowly reduce the outstanding amount over six months. Co-op 
has given us its internal notes and correspondence which says he didnt make any payments 
towards the plan. And in March 2019, after the plan expired, he was sent a default notice.
Mr T contacted Co-op around 10 March 2019 to set up a new plan. He said his outgoings 
had been higher than usual but he agreed to make regular payments for three months 
ending in July 2019. Mr T made the first two repayments but missed the final payment. 
In August 2019 after the plan had expired Mr T called Co-op to put the plan in place again. 
The advisor said theyd need to go through his income and expenditure even though Mr Ts 
circumstances hadnt changed. Mr T agreed to call back later in the day but he didnt. 
Around two days later, Co-op sent Mr T a letter explaining he needed to bring his account up 
to date. And on 2 September 2019, a default notice was sent showing how much he needed 
to pay and when by to avoid the agreement ending. Co-op wrote to Mr T on 
27 September 2019 to say the agreement was ending and might be passed to a third party. 
Mr T called Co-op on 3 October 2019 and its given us a recording of this call. The advisor 
explained he couldnt now put a repayment plan in place as he hadnt made any payments 
for some time  and the account was being passed to a third party. The advisor also said a 
default hadnt been registered but explained that it still could be. Co-op has told us Mr Ts 
account was defaulted on 7 October 2019. But during a second call later that month he was 
incorrectly told it hadnt been defaulted yet. 
Mr T thinks Co-op has treated him unfairly. He says he was promised throughout his 
correspondence a default wouldnt be added  in particular if he kept in touch. He says his 
job means hes abroad regularly so he cant always be in contact but he maintained 
communication when he could. And he didnt receive some of the letters sent to him as it 
was sent to an old address. So he wants the default removed and his account returned to 
Co-op. And he thinks hes being treated differently from other people. Co-op has apologised 
for giving Mr T the wrong information during the last call and paid him £50 as compensation. 
But its said it didnt apply the default or pass his account to the third party incorrectly.
As the complaint wasnt resolved, Mr T asked our service to look into things. Our investigator 
didnt think Co-op had done anything wrong. Mr T didnt agree with our investigators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. I know 
Mr T will be disappointed. 
Mr T says Co-op unfairly defaulted his account even though he kept in regular contact. But 
Co-op has given us its contact notes and copies of letters sent to Mr T. And whilst I can see 
he contacted Co-op sometimes, Im not satisfied it was regularly or when he previously 
agreed to. In any event, even if he had kept in constant contact with Co-op, I still wouldnt be 
persuaded it defaulted his account unfairly in this case. Ill explain why.
From August 2018, Mr T had two short term repayment plans with Co-op and unfortunately 
he was unable to keep up the repayments on either. So he broke the agreements and Im 
satisfied Co-op was entitled to default his account at either time. Instead I can see in 
March 2019, it agreed to a new repayment plan  and in August 2019 an advisor said they 
could agree a plan if Mr T went through his income and expenditure. And as it needed to 
make sure any agreement was affordable and sustainable, I think thats reasonable. 
Mr T agreed hed call back later that day to complete the income and expenditure 
assessment but he didnt get in touch for around two months. As Mr T therefore didnt have 
an arrangement in place and wasnt making his contractual (or any other) payments to his 
account. I dont think Co-op acted unfairly.
I understand Mr T believes the advisor refused to carry out his income and expenditure with 
him because he was driving. But Ive listened to the call and while theres some discussion 
about Mr T driving, the advisor agreed to continue the conversation. But they both agreed 
hed call back later when it was clear an assessment would be needed. And he didnt. 
Co-op has given us copies of the letters it sent Mr T  including the default notice it sent in 
September 2019. The default notice explained the amount due and a date to pay by 
(19 September 2019). Otherwise the agreement would be terminated and details shared with 
credit reference agencies. I understand Mr T got in touch with Co-op in October 2019 which 
was soon after he received a letter saying the account had been terminated and might be 
transferred to a third party. Although the account hadnt been defaulted at that point, the 
letter Mr T received doesnt suggest he can do anything to reverse the decision that had 
been made by getting in touch quickly  it just asks him to repay the outstanding balance. 
I understand Mr T might not have received all the letters sent to him as he hadnt updated 
his address details with Co-op. And whilst thats unfortunate, I cant say Co-op did anything 
wrong by sending letters to the address it had on file. In any event, Im satisfied Mr T 
wouldve known he had missed payments and had broken his repayment plans. 
Co-op accepts Mr T was given the wrong information in October 2019 when he was told the 
default hadnt been applied yet  as it had been earlier that month. To put things right, Mr T 
wants the default removed. But I dont think that would be fair in this case. And I think the 
compensation Co-op has paid him is fair to make up for the upset he wouldve been caused 
by being given the wrong information. 
Mr T says he was assured repeatedly during conversations with advisors that a default 
wouldnt be added to his account. But whilst Ive seen he was told a default hadnt been 
added yet, I dont agree he was told a default wouldnt be added. So overall, I think Co-op 
applied the default fairly and I dont think it needs to do anything more in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman