DRN-3892547
The complaint
Mr M complains that it was unfair of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) to give him a loan to fund the purchase of a timeshare 
membership (the product) without checking if he could afford to pay back what he owed 
and BPF was wrong to decline claims he made arising out of the transaction.
The product agreement is in the joint names of Mr M and Mrs M but the loan agreement is in 
Mr Ms sole name. This means Mr M is the complainant who is eligible to bring a complaint 
to our service and thats why Ive referred to him alone in this decision.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M acquired rights under a vacation membership agreement from a third party 
(that Ill call A) in June 2007. They paid a deposit by credit card and put off paying the 
balance under a deferred payment agreement with A. In February 2008 Mr M took out a 
fixed sum loan with BPF for around £10,700 to pay the deferred amount. Under the loan 
terms he agreed to pay back over £14,000 (including interest) at almost £240 a month for 60 
months. Mr M says misrepresentations were made and he was treated unfairly when the 
product was sold and no proper affordability checks were undertaken when he took out the 
loan. He wants BPF to provide a refund and compensation.
BPF thinks it is too late, under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA), for Mr M to bring claims under 
sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). BPF also considers Mr M is 
out of time to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, under our rules.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. In summary, he was satisfied that this 
service could look at Mr Ms complaint but he thought Mr M had raised his section 75 claim 
too late - as he contacted BPF outside of the six year time limit under the LA. He thought it 
was most likely that Mr Ms loan account was closed in 2008 so Mr M had raised his section 
140A claim outside of the relevant time limits too. He wasnt persuaded that other provisions 
of the LA would extend time or otherwise assist Mr M.
The investigator thought Mr Ms claims have more than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits and, whilst thats for the courts to decide, its not unreasonable for BPF to take this into 
account. He didnt think Mr M had provided enough evidence to reasonably conclude that it 
was irresponsible of BPF to provide this loan and the borrowing was unaffordable for him. 
And he wasnt persuaded that BPFs decision to decline Mr Ms claims was unfair or 
unreasonable in the circumstances - so he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter making various 
submissions which Ive summarised below:- 
affordability checks werent undertaken and the lending was irresponsible and 
unaffordable;
high pressure sales tactics (which amounted to undue influence) were used  
amongst other things, Mr M attended a sales event which lasted the whole day, he 
wasnt allowed to leave and he was given complex contractual documentation to 
sign at the time, giving rise to an unfair relationship contrary to Section 140A;
the product was sold as an investment, which it wasnt, and a further aggravating 
factor is the supplier brokered the loan when it wasnt authorised to do so by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) - in breach of Section 19 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (FMSA);
commission paid by BPF was never disclosed giving rise to an unfair debtor-
creditor relationship under section 140A of the CCA;
misrepresentations, that were false (and known to be false) were made with the 
intention of inducing Mr M to enter into the agreements;
Mr M relied on what was said and experienced loss as a result and he could not 
have known that misrepresentations were fraudulent - and what remedies might be 
available - until he sought advice and instructed representatives;
the primary limitation period hasnt expired but, even if it had, Mr M relies on 
section 32 of the LA (specifically section 32(l)(b)) to extend the limitation period.
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however and I thought it was fair to give 
the parties the chance to see my provisional findings and respond if they wanted to before I 
made my final decision. I issued a provisional decision on 14 September 2022 and Ive set 
out what I decided provisionally (and why) below (in italics). This forms part of my final 
decision. 
My provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision about the merits of 
this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I can see that Mr M and his family have experienced some very difficult personal 
circumstances and Im sorry to hear of all that theyve been through. I want to assure Mr M 
that I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. If I dont address every 
single point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have, but Im 
going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair 
and reasonable outcome. I realise this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr M but, 
based on the evidence Ive seen so far, Im not minded to require BPF to do anything else to 
resolve this matter - and Ive explained why below. 
Jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service 
I have considered whether this complaint comes within the jurisdiction of our service. BPF 
says it doesnt, because the events Mr M is complaining about took place more than six 
years before he brought his complaint to us and thats too late, under our rules. The rules 
about the complaints that we can consider are set out in the FCAs Handbook. These are 
known as the DISP rules. DISP 2.8.2(2) provides (unless the failure to comply with the time 
limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances) that we cant consider a complaint if a 
consumer refers it to us more than: 
(a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint. 
To decide if this complaint is one that we can look into, Ive considered what Mr M is 
complaining about exactly. I think its clear hes unhappy because he feels BPF failed to fulfil 
its obligations under the CCA when it rejected claims he made under sections 75 and 140A 
arising out of his purchase of the product. Jurisdiction and Mr Ms section 75 claim 
Im satisfied that the exercise of a lenders rights and duties under a credit agreement is a 
regulated activity under (Article 60(B)(2) of the FSMA (Regulated Activities Order 2001). A 
creditor has a duty to comply with the CCA and I think considering a claim under the CCA is 
ancillary to - and carried on in connection with - a regulated activity. I find the event (as 
referred to at DISP 2.8.2(2)(a) above) that Mr M is complaining here about is BPFs rejection 
of the claim he made under the CCA. So, the relevant date is when BPF declined his 
complaint in September 2018. Im satisfied that Mr M had already brought his complaint to 
our service by that stage so hes not out of time to do so. I find this part of his complaint falls 
within the jurisdiction of this service and we can consider it. 
Jurisdiction and section 140A
Mr M considers the acts and omissions of the product supplier here resulted in an unfair 
relationship between him and BPF. I think that amounts to a claim under section 140A of the 
CCA, so Ive given some thought as to whether this part of the complaint falls within our 
jurisdiction. Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that the events complained of took 
place in 2007. I cant reasonably conclude that this part of Mr Ms complaint was brought to 
us within the six-year period set out in the first part of DISP 2.8.2R as outlined above. So, 
Ive gone on to consider the second limb of DISP 2.8.2 - when Mr M knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint - to see if this extends the time 
under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b). 
Its been said that Mr M first became aware that he had cause for complaint in 2018 when he 
sought professional advice. From the evidence Ive got, taking into account the acts and 
omissions that Mr M has complained about, I think he should reasonably have known that 
something might have gone wrong as a result of the suppliers acts and/or omissions before 
that. I accept this is not the same as Mr M knowing that he had cause for complaint against 
BPF. And, whilst Mr M may have known that something might have gone wrong with the 
supplier, I dont think its reasonable to assume that he would have realised that this might 
have made the relationship between him and BPF unfair  or that he had grounds to 
complain about BPF. 
For that to be the case, I think Mr M would have needed to know there was a problem that 
caused him to lose out because of something BPF did (or didnt do). Im not persuaded that 
Mr M knew (or ought to have known) that he had cause for complaint against BPF before 
2018. Im satisfied he brought his complaint to us within three years of that and I find this 
part of the complaint comes within our jurisdiction. 
Merits of the complaint 
In light of my findings above, Ive gone on to consider the merits of Mr Ms complaint. Mr M 
brings claims against BPF under section 75 and section 140A of the CCA and Im 
considering whether BPF has provided a fair and reasonable response to those claims in 
this decision. 
Our investigator says any right that Mr M had to bring these claims against BPF is probably 
out of time under the LA. If thats correct, then I agree its something that BPF could 
reasonably take into account when it decided to decline Mr Ms claims. I should make it clear 
however that I am not deciding here if any right that Mr M may have to bring these claims 
has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. 
Section 75 CCA 
Under section 75 a borrower has an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a 
supplier, in certain circumstances, if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier.  In this complaint, Mr M claims that misrepresentations were made and I think sections 2, and 
9 of the LA are relevant. Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort) for damages under 
section 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to causes of action for 
sums recoverable under statute. Im satisfied that both sections impose a limitation period of 
six years from the date that a cause of action accrues. And I think the date the cause of 
action accrued here will be the same as the date upon which the misrepresentations alleged 
under section 75 became actionable  that is the date any damage is suffered. 
Im satisfied any relevant damage was incurred when Mr M purchased the product - in June 
2007. Amongst other things, this was when he agreed to pay for the benefits which he says 
were misrepresented. As a consequence, I think Mr M would have needed to bring any claim 
under section 75 within six years of the date he entered into the transaction to buy the 
product. Im satisfied that more than six years had passed since that date before Mr M 
contacted BPF in 2018. It looks as if the period within which he had to bring an action under 
section 75 had run out by that point. And I cant reasonably say it was wrong of BPF to 
decline Mr M s section 75 claim. 
I note that BPF says the relationship between the debtor, creditor and supplier (d-c-s) 
required under section 75 isnt present here but I havent considered this as Im not minded 
to uphold this complaint for other reasons. 
Section 140A CCA 
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the debtor arising out of 
the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I think 
this is relevant law and I have taken it into account. 
Im satisfied that the time limit applicable is six years from the date the debtor-creditor 
relationship ended so Ive considered when (and whether) that happened. Mrs M supplied a 
statement that says, whilst the agreement with BPF was for five years, they made 
repayments for eight and they never had any contact or received statements. And when they 
asked BPF for account information, it had no record of them and said payments were going 
into a holding account. She also said Mr M stopped making payments and A got in touch to 
say £7,000 remained owing and sent bailiffs so Mr M paid £2,500 but didnt get a receipt. 
She states that he still doesnt know the account balance or who the debt is with  given A 
says its their debt but Mr M got the loan from BPF. 
We asked BPF for more information and it was unable to supply the original loan agreement. 
Financial businesses arent required to keep information indefinitely and, given the passage 
of time here, I cant fairly criticise BPF for that. BPF has provided a statement of account. Im 
satisfied this shows the relevant loan was taken out on 7 February 2008 and payments were 
made by direct debit and debit card from March until August the same year. I can see a 
direct debit for the monthly amount went unpaid in August 2008 and it looks as if the loan 
was cancelled a month or so later - with the balance (of £9,299) reduced to nil. 
In light of the different loan histories provided by the parties we asked them both to provide 
additional information. BPF checked its systems and said it no longer has relevant contact 
notes but the loan was cancelled, funds were returned to BPF and there was no repayment 
plan put in place. Mr M hasnt supplied anything else. Im satisfied that BPF supplied the 
account statement (referred to above) to Mr M in September 2018 and confirmed then that 
the loan was cancelled in 2008 and account balance was nil. Ive seen no evidence to 
contradict this. And, on the information I have at the moment, I think it looks as if the credit 
facility ended in or about October 2008. As a consequence, I think Mr M would have needed 
to bring any claim under section 140A by October 2014.
Im satisfied Mr M didnt contact BPF until 2018. Thats more than six years after the date 
time started running. I consider any right he had to bring a claim under section 140A had likely expired by that stage and Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for BPF to decline his 
claim.
Section 32 LA
I appreciate Mr M may say he didnt know about these time limits but Im afraid thats not 
generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period. Ive given some thought to 
section 32 of the LA  which relates to the extension of time for starting an action if fraud, 
mistake or concealment are found (or could with reasonable diligence have been 
discovered).
I cant see that specific allegations of this sort were put to BPF previously. But, even if I were 
to accept that section 32 applied, I think Mr M probably had enough information to start the 
clock running in the particular circumstances not long after he purchased the product. I say 
this because it looks as if Mr M had concerns about the product soon after purchase. Mrs M 
hasnt included dates in her statement but it looks as if they were unhappy with the purchase 
very early on. On balance, I think Mr M was probably aware then that benefits he says he 
was told at the outset would be provided might have been misrepresented - and its more 
likely than not he also realised the product wasnt what he expected, at that stage. I consider 
this would have been sufficient to enable Mr M to bring his claims and Im not persuaded its 
unreasonable to expect him to have done so within the relevant time limits. 
Ive also considered (in this context) submissions made about the payment of commission. 
Its been said that any commission paid by BPF to the supplier for arranging the loan should 
have been disclosed and this gives rise to an unfair relationship under section 140. BPF has 
no record of how much  if any  commission was paid. And my understanding of the levels 
of commission that were normally paid in this sort of situation (at the relevant time) is that 
this wasnt high enough to mean that BPF should have realised not telling Mr M risked the 
debtor-creditor relationship being unfair (under section 140A). If (and its by no means 
certain) any commission was paid, I think its unlikely to have exceeded 10%.
I cant see that BPF would have breached any duty in making such a payment. Im not 
persuaded that BPF was obliged to disclose it. And I dont think the supplier was under a 
duty to disclose it either. I cant see that the supplier was acting as agent for Mr M. I dont 
think it owed him a fiduciary duty. And Im satisfied it wasnt obliged to provide an impartial or 
disinterested recommendation, in these particular circumstances. It follows, Im not 
persuaded that section 32 assists Mr M. However, even if Mr M was able to rely on section 
32, Im satisfied if any commission was paid it probably wasnt more than 10%. And I think 
its unlikely a court would conclude that this created an unfair debtor- creditor relationship, in 
any event. 
Section 14A LA 
Im not persuaded that section 14A of the LA (which provides for a second period in which a 
claim for negligence can be made) applies here. Looking at what happened, when Mr M 
purchased the product and when he took out the finance and having considered the 
available documentation, Im not persuaded that a duty of care arose - or advice was 
provided - that could give rise to a claim to which this section could apply.
Section 19 Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
After the matter was referred to our service, it was suggested that the supplier didnt have 
appropriate authorisation to arrange this finance - in breach of section 19 above. I think this 
is a new claim - I cant see that it was raised with BPF previously  and I find it fair that BPF 
should have the opportunity to consider this and respond so its not something Im able to 
look at here. It remains open to Mr M to put this to BPF and, if hes unhappy with the 
response, he may be able to bring another complaint to our service.
Unaffordable lendingMr M says proper credit checks were not carried out and it was irresponsible of BPF to 
provide this loan. BPF hasnt been able to provide details of any credit checks but, even if I 
were to accept that BPF didnt do all that it should have when it agreed to lend, Id need to 
be satisfied that the lending was actually unaffordable for Mr M (and he lost out as a result) 
in order to uphold this part of his complaint. In considering this, I can only take into account 
the standards that applied at the relevant time.
We asked for information about Mr Ms finances at the time and Mrs M told us that Mr M 
earned about £14,000 a year and their joint annual income was about £26,000. She said the 
mortgage cost about £678 a month, they took out a secured loan to pay off other debts that 
cost £282 a month and they didnt think Mr M would be accepted for the BPF loan as he was 
not creditworthy at the time. 
Our investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to reasonably conclude that the 
lending was unaffordable, based on the evidence available. After the investigator sent his 
view, Mrs M provided another statement containing somewhat different figures. She said 
their joint income was approximately £29,000 per annum with a monthly mortgage payment 
of over £1,000 and they paid £218 on the secured loan and essential outgoings for utilities 
and the like. Mrs M reiterated their surprise that Mr M was accepted for the BPF loan as they 
couldnt afford the monthly payments at that time and said theyve been in a debt 
management plan (DMP) since 2015.
Im sorry to hear that Mr M and Mrs M have a difficult time and they had to enter a DMP in 
2015. I have sympathy for the situation they found themselves in. I realise the differing 
figures provided probably resulted from memories fading over time but I cant fairly rely on 
such inconsistent information. We asked Mr M if he was able to send us more evidence 
about his finances at the relevant time  which could include details of income and outgoings 
as well as documentary evidence such as bank statements, bills and/or his credit file  but 
we havent received anything else.
On the evidence Ive got, I cant fairly conclude that the credit provided by BPF in 2008 was 
unaffordable for Mr M solely on the grounds he entered a DMP some years later, in 2015. 
Taking everything Ive seen so far into account, Im not persuaded that there are sufficient 
fair and reasonable grounds to conclude that this loan was unaffordable for him when he 
took it out so Im unable to uphold this aspect of his complaint.
As the investigator explained, its for the courts to decide if any claim that Mr M may have 
against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the 
information available, any relevant claim has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in 
the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account and (for the reasons set out) Im not 
persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I 
dont think BPF has treated Mr M unfairly or acted unreasonably and I cant properly require 
BPF to compensate him or do anything else. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments and information by 28 September 2022. I said Id consider all the evidence 
available after that and make my final decision. BPF told us it had nothing further to add. 
An issue arose regarding the appointment of a firm of solicitors to represent Mr M. The 
investigator explained the problem to Mr M and the relevant firm and I extended the time 
allowed for responses to my provisional decision - to give them the opportunity to sort things 
out. The time set for responses has now passed and we havent received anything further. Neither party has raised any objections to my provisional findings and I see no reasonable 
grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions in the circumstances. For the reasons set 
out above, I remain of the view that there arent sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. I dont think BPF has treated him unfairly or acted unreasonably 
and I cant properly require BPF to compensate him or do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is this service is able to consider Mr Ms complaint 
and, having done so, Im unable to uphold it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman