DRN-3988937
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr Js complaint is about delays and the administration of a claim relating to 
damage caused to their property that is insured through Tokio Marine Kiln Insurance Limited.
What happened
I set out the background in a provisional decision dated 10 February 2023 explaining why I 
wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. Ill briefly set out the background here:
Mrs H and Mr Js property is an apartment, one of several, in a large block. An escape of 
water around October 2019 caused significant within the block, which included some 
damage to Mrs H and Mr Js apartment. They couldnt return until September 2021. 
The freeholder of the block (AV) made a claim and Tokio appointed agents to assess the 
damage and manage the claim. Given the scale of the damage it was deemed a major 
complex loss with anticipated costs well into seven figures. It took several months for the 
entirety of the damage to be assess, a reinstatement schedule of works drafted, agreed and 
a planned approach to commence works.
Although works were due to start in February 2020, issues with Covid-19 arising and illness 
impacted the appointed contractors and as is well known Government imposed restrictions 
commenced in late March 2020. This inevitably added delay and therefore there was 
concern around damp and mould issues but after several visits the matter wasnt considered 
to be as extensive as first feared. But it meant further adjustments and review of the 
proposed works, including costs which had to be agreed between the contractor and Tokios 
loss adjuster taking until around March 2021. Works started in earnest around this time and 
Mrs H and Mr J moved back in around six months later. 
What I provisionally decided  and why
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint I explained:
The complaint is ostensibly about claim handling and the delay. Mrs H and Mr J have a
direct interest in what happened with the repairs to their flat. Looking at the full context of
what occurred its apparent that the repairs to their flat were a small part of the entirety of the
claim that was being handled. Several flats needed repairs to varying degrees as did
common parts of the building. It was a large and complex claim that became impacted by a
global pandemic, the government restrictions, and other challenges from the pandemic, such
as infections and absence within the commercial entities involved in dealing with the claim.
Its apparent that there were delays and I refer to the email I alluded to earlier (February
2021). But the nature of the required works changed over time (e.g., the mould / damp
issue) and this led to a need for reassessment and re-costing the required works.
One of Tokios duties is to handle claims promptly  little progress was made in 2020 as
evident by the building management complaining to Tokio that things seemed to be at a
standstill (February 2021). That said, Tokio was faced with an unprecedented situation with
the pandemic and the claim itself was major and complex. In my view there were clear
contributory factors to the duration of the claim given the pandemic and this impacted Mrs H
and Mr J being able to return to their home. Throughout that time, they were placed in
alternative accommodation.
While I dont understate the inconvenience Mrs H and Mr J experienced, the nature of the
escape of water in their apartment block impacted the entirety of the block. The assessment
of repairs was complex, and costs were well into seven figures. I accept there were periods
where not much appeared to be happening, but the pandemic had a major impact including
but not limited to people sickness within entities involved in the assessment and repair
process. This inevitably and understandable affected progress. As time passed and the
building began to dry out the scope of required works changed and had to be reassessed
and costed again.
The claim was handled as a whole rather than by individual unit or area and so no
individual leaseholder had a distinct and separate claim journey. In my view that was
reasonable and appropriate given Tokio was able to have the claim handled between a
limited number of entities  its loss adjuster and the successful tender entity. Inevitably some
had to wait longer than others. Having considered all the circumstances carefully Im not
persuaded that it would be fair to make an award of compensation in favour of Mrs H and
Mr J. The sheer extent of the damage, its complexities and circumstances at the time were,
in my view, the main factor in how long things took. I appreciate Mrs H and Mr J suffered
distress and inconvenience but not as a result of how Tokio handled the claim.
Replies to provisional decision
Tokio didnt respond but Mrs H and Mr J provided extracts of comments and reports from the 
surveyor. Ive read all of those carefully but see no need to copy them out in this decision. 
But in summary the extracts are used by Mrs H and Mr J to support their complaint about 
delays and administration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded to reach a different outcome to that in my provisional decision and so 
dont uphold this complaint.
Ive reflected carefully on what Mrs H and Mr J have said and dont underestimate or seek to 
underplay the impact the claim had on them. Being out of their property for such a period 
would undoubtedly have been a source of stress and inconvenience. 
Its not reasonable for me to look at the entirety of the claim by individual units  some parts 
of the block would get repaired sooner than other parts. Inevitably those who had to wait 
longest would be more disappointed than those who benefitted from earlier repairs. I cant 
ignore the fact that this was a block of apartments, and the escape of water impacted the 
entire block. Water cascades with gravity and given the nature of the building much of the 
water would have travelled behind walls and in voids that wouldnt necessarily be visible 
without removing sections of walls and ceilings to track damage and thus ensure remedial 
works factored in and addressed the potential for growing damp and mould in the building 
and its individual apartments.
It was a major and complex claim well into seven figures. Tendering, scoping, agreeing 
insured works, and adapting as the changing situation required inevitably took time. Notwithstanding the point at which Covid restrictions were limited, the sheer nature of the 
claim didnt change and remained complex and major. Could the repairs to Mrs H and Mr Js 
apartment have been done quicker? Maybe they could but thats not the litmus test for me as 
to whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
The entirety of the situation is highly relevant and as Ive mentioned, some apartments would 
be repaired sooner than others. The best laid plans dont always go as envisaged and as 
disappointed as Mrs H and Mr J were, Im not persuaded that Tokio caused unreasonable 
delays such that warrant a finding they acted unfairly.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman