DRN-4120631
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) closed his account without notice and wrongly 
recorded his details on the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS). He would like 
the CIFAS marker to be removed as it is impacting his life including his ability to find a job.
What happened
Mr A had a personal account with Monzo. Monzo closed the account without notice a week 
or so after it was opened in August 2021. A few days before the account was closed two 
payments of £60 and £40 respectively were paid into Mr As account by third parties which 
Mr A withdrew in cash immediately.  Mr A asked Monzo why his account was closed via its 
chat function but was told it couldnt provide any more information. 
Monzo recorded Mr As details on CIFAS around the same time. 
In April 2022 Mr A complained to Monzo. He said he had tried to open an account with 
another bank but was prevented from doing so because of the CIFAS marker. He said that 
he knew this was due to fraud but he wasnt the one who committed the fraud. He said 
Monzo didnt tell him why his account had been closed at the time but he realised because 
the account was closed shortly after he withdrew the £100 from it. He said he wanted 
another account and that he needed an account in order to have a job. He added that the 
third parties that carried out the fraud should be punished instead of him.
 
Monzo responded to Mr As complaint in June 2022 but it didnt uphold it. It said it acted in 
line with its terms and conditions as well as with internal procedures and legal and regulatory 
obligations when it reviewed and closed the account. It said it was entitled to do so and 
wouldnt be offering Mr A a new account.
 
Mr A then complained to us. He said his main concern was to have the CIFAS marker 
removed.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He obtained Mr As testimony as part of his 
investigation. Mr A said that a friend and a third party asked to use his account to have 
money sent to it. He initially said he was offered £20 to do this but then retracted this. He 
said he agreed on the basis that there was nothing untoward going on. When the 
transactions happened he said he withdrew the money and gave it to his friend and their 
friend. He said this was his only bank account and that he hadnt had a bank account before. 
He felt he was the victim here.
 
Our investigator reviewed all the evidence but he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He agreed that Monzo had acted within its terms and conditions as well as its legal 
and regulatory obligations when it reviewed and closed the account. He felt that Mr A had 
shown awareness of the risks and that he had also benefited from the funds. He said he 
wouldnt be asking Monzo to remove the CIFAS marker. 
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision so the matter was passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo recorded against Mr A is intended to record that Mr A retained a 
wrongful credit. In order to file such a marker, Monzo isnt required to prove beyond 
reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of financial crime, but it must show there are grounds for 
more than mere suspicion of concerns. CIFAS guidelines say:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime 
has been committed or attempted; and
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
What this means in practice is that the bank must first be able to show that the fraudulent 
funds have entered Mr As account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was or might be an illegitimate 
payment. This can include Mr A allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive 
an illegitimate payment. A marker should not be registered against someone who was 
unwitting. There should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. 
So, I need to decide whether Monzo had sufficient evidence to meet the standard of proof 
and load a marker against Mr A. Having looked at all the evidence Im satisfied it has, and I 
say this because:
Ive considered the guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives a fraudulent 
payment into their account like this- acting as whats commonly referred to as a money 
mule. And the relevant factors in deciding whether Mr A was deliberately complicit in what 
happened include whether he knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt 
legitimate, whether he may have benefitted from the money in keeping some of the funds 
and whether he has provided generic or inconsistent explanations. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud maker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr As account and that he was complicit in this. 
Its important to note that Monzo had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of this test 
for it to have acted fairly and reasonably. 
From looking at the evidence it is not in dispute that at least one of the payments which was 
paid into Mr As account in August 2021 was fraudulent. So Im satisfied Monzo has met this 
part of the test. 
As I said above, Monzo also has to produce sufficient evidence to show that Mr A was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment. And knew it was or might be a 
fraudulent payment. 
Mr A said that a friend and a friend of his friend had asked him if a third party could transfer 
money into his account. He initially told us he was given £20 for this but later retracted this. Mr A said he questioned the friend as to why this was necessary and was told it was 
because neither the friend nor his friend had a card (and by that I assume he means a bank 
account). Mr A said he agreed to do this as long as there was nothing dodgy going on and 
was aware of instances - from programmes hed watched on television - where accounts had 
been used in this way to carry out fraud. The money was withdrawn from Mr As account on 
the day of the transaction. Mr A said he feels like he is the victim here as he did not defraud 
anyone.
Ive thought about what Mr A has said and from what he has said I think Mr A knew or ought 
to have known the funds were fraudulent. I say this because Mr A was clearly concerned 
about the transactions being potentially fraudulent. He also mentioned being offered £20 to 
agree to provide his account details, though he later denied this. In the circumstances I think 
there was a reasonable suspicion that Mr A knew fraud would take place when he provided 
his account details to his friend. 
In summary, when I weigh everything up, I consider Monzo had sufficient evidence to meet 
the test for recording a fraud marker against Mr A. So, I will not ask it to remove it. I 
appreciate that this will cause further upset to Mr A but for the reasons Ive given I dont think 
Monzo has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and I wont be asking it to remove the 
marker.
Finally, Ive looked at Monzos decision to close Mr As account. Banks are entitled to end 
their business relationship with a customer. As long as its done fairly and is in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. The terms and conditions of Mr As account say that 
Monzo can close an account in certain circumstances immediately. Given the concerns 
Monzo had about how Mr A was operating his account, I dont think thats unreasonable. So, 
it was entitled to close the account as its already done and end its relationship with Mr A. 
And for the same reasons I dont think it has to offer Mr A a new account.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman