DRN-3297215
The complaint and background
Mrs M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly continued applying charges to her 
current account which caused her financial difficulty.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Ms complaint and thought HSBC should have 
realised Mrs Ms overdraft had already become unsustainable by 1 September 2014. So it 
needed to refund all the interest, fees and associated charges it added to Mrs Ms overdraft 
from this point. HSBC didnt respond and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from 1 September 2014. By this 
point, it was evident Mrs M was struggling financially. 
Mrs Ms statements leading up to this period show that she was struggling and this is 
evidenced by the significant number of unarranged overdraft fees. The sheer number of 
unbroken months shed incurred these fees clearly demonstrated that Mrs M was in a cycle 
of charges that she wasnt going to be able to break without help to do so.
Im aware that HSBC sent Mrs M letters and text messages about the charges that she was 
incurring on her account. But given the volume of these letters and messages that HSBC 
sent, and the fact that Mrs Ms account nonetheless continued to incur significant charges 
every month, I think it should have been clear to HSBC by September 2014 that she needed 
more direct assistance to get out of the situation she was in.
So I think that by September 2014 HSBC should have treated Mrs M with forbearance rather 
than adding even more interest, fees and charges to her account. All of this means that 
HSBC should have realised that Mrs M was experiencing financial difficulty and offered her 
help to break the cycle of charges and repay what she owed. As HSBC didnt react to 
Mrs Ms account usage, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when she was 
already experiencing difficulty. So Im satisfied that Mrs M lost out because of what HSBC 
did wrong and that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ms account balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from 1 September 2014 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made 
HSBC should contact Mrs M to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Mrs M is 
encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a suitable 
agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mrs Ms credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action in September 2014. HSBC can also 
reduce any overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to 
do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mrs M over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ms credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce any overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it wishes to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman