DRN-3068440
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Theres no dispute that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Moneybarn have accepted that 
and the car has been returned and the agreement ended. Whats disputed here is the 
redress Moneybarn have offered when agreeing to allow Mr A to reject the vehicle.
The relevant legislation says that when theres a fault with a car at the point of supply and 
repairs fail, the business should allow a consumer to reject the car. In those circumstances 
we would ask the business to end the agreement, take the car back and refund the 
consumers deposit. Wed ask the business to add interest to the deposit refund to reflect the 
fact the consumer had been deprived of it for a time. So far, so good, as thats what 
Moneybarn have done here.  
The relevant legislation also says that the business are entitled to retain part or all of the 
finance instalments in respect of the use the consumer has had from the goods. Moneybarn 
have retained two monthly finance instalments as theyve noted Mr A has completed about 
4,500 miles in the car.
But Mr A has explained that the mileage listed on the agreement must be inaccurate as it 
was 400 miles more on the MOT completed about three months before the car was supplied 
to Mr A. Id agree, on that basis, that it seems the cars mileage was understated on the 
finance agreement, but Ive not been provided with any evidence of what it actually was. Its 
clear Mr A has completed some mileage and its only fair he should pay for the use hes had. 
  
Putting things right
In the absence of any more definitive information I think a reasonable resolution would be for 
Moneybarn to retain one monthly finance instalment and refund the other of £748.53. Theyll 
need to add interest to that refund as Mr A has been deprived of that money.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited to refund one monthly finance instalment of £748.53 and add 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman