DRN-3191756
The complaint
Mr I1 and Mr I2 complain about how QIC Europe Ltd have dealt with a claim they made 
under a commercial motor insurance policy.
Mr I2 has mainly dealt with the claim and complaint so I will refer to him throughout.
  
What happened
Mr I2 owned a Rover 25 which had been highly modified. It was stored in a garage that 
caught fire. Mr I2 made a claim to QIC for the loss of it.
QIC said the policy only required it to pay the trade value of the car which it estimated to be 
£141. However, its engineer recognised modifications had been made to the car and 
therefore made an offer to Mr I2 of £2,000. Mr I2 thought the car was worth near to £20,000 
due to the modifications and improvements made to it. He said it was a unique car, which he 
took to car shows and had recently received an offer of £10,000 for.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think QIC had acted unreasonably. He 
said he wasnt persuaded QIC needed to increase its offer. Mr I2 disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
Further developments
Having initially reviewed the complaint I explained to Mr I2 that in order to review the 
amount QIC had valued the car at, I would need to see independent valuations of its worth. 
Mr I2 then obtained three valuations from different companies which placed the trade value 
of the car at £13,000, £13,995 and £14,750 respectively.
These valuations were forwarded to QIC to review however it said it wouldnt be changing 
its offer.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 12 November 2021; in it I said the complaint should be 
upheld for the following reasons:
Im intending to direct QIC to pay an increased amount for the car. I do so for the following 
reasons:
I recognise the policy says only the trade value of the car will be paid. However, 
Im mindful it has been heavily modified, to the point it presented as a different 
model of car and the modifications were disclosed to the policy. I therefore dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable for QIC to rely on the trade value of the base 
model of the car plus an amount for modifications
Im persuaded by Mr I2s testimony of the work done to the car and the interest he 
had received in it. I find that he has provided plausible explanations and his 
testimony regarding the car has been consistent throughout. Ive looked at pictures 
of the car, the listed modifications, receipts for the purchase of such modifications 
and the rolling road print out showing it capable of achieving 400 bhp (brake 
horsepower).
Ive reviewed the valuations Mr I2 has provided and I see no reason to doubt 
their authenticity.
Valuing vehicles isnt an exact science. Ive explained above why in this instance I 
dont think the motor trade guides would provide a fair and reasonable valuation 
for this car. Having considered everything, Im persuaded the true trade value of 
the car is more likely than not in the region of the valuations Mr I2 has been able 
to provide.
In this case I think a fair and reasonable trade value for the car is £13,915 - being 
an average of the three amounts.
QIC should pay this amount to Mr I2, less any applicable excess and amounts 
already paid. Interest should then be added to the remaining amount at 8% 
simple per annum from the date of loss to the date of payment.
My provisional decision
For the above reasons I intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr I2 responded saying he accepted the decision. QIC said they had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again, I see no reason to depart from my original findings. I 
think the complaint should be upheld and QIC should increase the payment it made.   
Putting things right
To put things right QIC should do the following:
Pay £13,915 to Mr I2, less any applicable excess and amounts already paid. Interest 
should then be added to the remaining amount at 8% simple per annum from the 
date of loss to the date of payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr I1 and Mr I2s complaint against QIC Europe Ltd. I direct 
it to put matters right as I have set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Alison GoreOmbudsman