DRN-2037762
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) are holding him liable for around 
£6,100 of transactions that he says he did not make or otherwise authorise. He also 
complains that Barclays closed his bank account without notice. 
What happened
Between 31 December 2018 and 11 January 2019 approximately £6,100 was transferred 
from Mr Ps everyday saver account to his current account. It was subsequently removed 
from the account through cash withdrawals, transfers and chip and PIN transactions. Mr P 
denies making or otherwise authorising these transactions. 
Mr P says he contacted Barclays in March 2019 as he received his bank statements in 
February and discovered his accounts had been closed and his savings account had been 
emptied. He said he was asked to go into branch, where he was asked to demonstrate proof 
of funds even though hed held an account with Barclays for over three years. 
Mr P said he remembered looking in his wallet, where he unusually kept his card, at a party 
on New Years Eve and found it wasnt there. He didnt contact the bank to tell them it was 
missing and doesnt know why he didnt. Barclays notes say that he told it that he had his 
PIN code written down in his wallet, but he explained to our investigator that it wasnt noted 
down anywhere, and isnt sure how anyone else could know his PIN code. He could not 
explain why there were mobile banking logins during the period. He didnt believe anyone 
known to him could have completed the transactions. 
Barclays said it had reviewed Mr Ps account and made the decision to close it. It said Mr P 
had raised the disputed transactions but hadnt been back in touch despite them calling and 
writing to him. It did agree it should have given Mr P a notice of closure in writing, with 62 
days warning to allow him to organise his finances and as such offered him £150 for any 
distress and inconvenience suffered. 
Barclays reviewed the disputed transactions after Mr P came to our service, and declined to 
refund the transactions. It felt that it was most likely Mr P had made or otherwise authorised 
the transactions as: 
During this time there were numerous mobile banking logins on numerous dates 
using touch ID, and his passcode, using the mobile phone that Mr P had registered 
on his account and used previously, and Mr P hadnt given a plausible explanation as 
to how these could have been done by someone else;
If Mr P had been the person logging into his online banking, they would have 
expected him to have brought the disputed transactions to their attention much 
sooner; 
Some of the account activity was done via telephone banking and required security 
details and a one time password that was sent to his phone, and Mr P hadnt 
explained how this could have been someone else; and 
During the period, Mr P also confirmed a separate transaction to a retailer was 
genuine, implying he did have his card with him in early January. 
Our investigator looked into what happened, and they recommend that Mr Ps complaint be 
partially upheld. They agreed that on balance it was most likely that Mr P completed or 
otherwise authorised the transactions, and so they didnt feel Barclays had done anything 
wrong in declining to refund the disputed transactions. But they agreed that it would have 
been fair to have given Mr P warning before closing his bank account, so agreed the offer of 
£150 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Mr P didnt agree, so it 
has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr P liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that it is more likely than not that he authorised these payments or gave someone 
else consent to make them on his behalf. 
Barclays have provided the technical evidence to show the transactions were properly 
authenticated for the disputed transactions. For the online banking and telephone banking 
the relevant and necessary security details were provided, and for the cash withdrawals by 
reading the chip in Mr Ps genuine card and someone entering the correct PIN code, and 
because of the type of machine it also required his date of birth. But the regulations relevant 
to this case say that its not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold Mr P liable. So, I 
need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr P 
consented to the transactions being made. Having done so, I think on balance it is most 
likely Mr P authorised these transactions. Ill explain why. 
Mr P explained that he noticed his card was missing around 1 January 2019, but he 
didnt report it missing to the bank. Barclays notes say that they spoke to someone 
purporting to be Mr P in early January, when the caller passed security by providing a 
one time password which had been sent to Mr Ps device. Mr P hasnt explained how 
someone other than him could have had his phone at this point, nor disputed the 
transaction in question, which implies he had his card with him after 1 January. If this 
was him, it also would have given him an opportunity to notify Barclays of his missing 
card. 
Mr P has given conflicting accounts with regards to his PIN. According to Barclays 
notes, he told it that he had it written down in his wallet. He told our service that it 
wasnt recorded anywhere, and no one knew it. If it wasnt recorded in his wallet as 
he told our service, it is unclear how an unknown third party could have accessed his 
PIN code. 
Some of the transactions and cash withdrawals were completed using ASD 
machines. These are machines which allow customer to do more than ATMs, such 
as withdraw more money. Customers using ASD machines are required to input 
extra security details  their date of birth. Mr P told our service that his card was the 
only thing in his wallet, so even if an unknown third party had managed to access his 
card and PIN (if it were recorded in his wallet), it seems unlikely they would have also 
known his date of birth. It seems improbable that an unknown third party could have 
guessed his date of birth in order to complete the transactions on the ASD machine. 
Mr P told our service that no one else would have known his online banking details. 
There were numerous successful logins between 29 December and 12 January 2019 
including some done to undertake disputed transactions. These were completed on 
the mobile phone with the same device ID that was used on undisputed logins  so I think it is reasonable to conclude this was Mr Ps mobile phone. Mr P told our service 
that he hadnt lost his phone. Even if he had say, lent his phone to someone, it 
seems implausible that they could have accessed his online banking as I havent 
seen a reasonable point of compromise for his online banking security credentials. 
Further, there were logins using his fingerprint ID during the same period, including 
some shortly before and shortly after disputed transactions. So I think it is most likely 
that Mr P was accessing his online banking, or if it was someone known to him it 
would have had to have been with his consent. 
As I think it is most likely Mr P, or someone with his authority, made the online 
banking logins and transactions, it seems unusual that Mr P didnt report the disputed 
transactions earlier. There were numerous logins throughout the period of disputed 
activity, but Mr P didnt dispute the transactions until after the account was closed 
and his paper statements had been received. This is despite the fact that he most 
likely spoke to them during this period.  
One of the transfers from Mr Ps savings account to his current account was 
completed using telephone banking, as was one of the payments out of his current 
account to a third party account. The telephone banking required the caller to confirm 
Mr Ps full name, date of birth, memorable question answer, last 3 digits of a one time 
passcode. Again, Ive seen no plausible point of compromise that would allow an 
unknown third party to know these answers. 
Our investigator asked Mr P whether he felt it could have been someone known to 
him that completed the transactions without his consent, or whether anyone had 
offered him money or put him under duress to use his account. Mr P has assured this 
service that none of these scenarios occurred, and Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
that they did. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays to refuse a refund 
because overall, I think its more likely than not that Mr P made or otherwise authorised the 
transactions that he disputes. 
Ive also considered the fairness of the account closure. Banks are entitled to decide who 
they do business with, and can discontinue services in line with their terms and conditions. I 
agree with Mr P and Barclays that it would have been appropriate to have closed his account 
with notice, rather than with immediate effect. Ive considered the impact this must have had 
on Mr P, having done so I think that £150 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I think it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to refuse 
to refund the disputed transactions. I find that its offer of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience of closing Mr Ps account with immediate effect is fair  and ask that it make 
arrangements to pay this to Mr P if it has not yet done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman