DRN-3788315
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard handled a claim 
she made to it about a holiday booking she made using her credit card.
What happened
Mrs B made a travel booking with a supplier of travel services (the supplier) for July 2020 
using her Barclays credit card. The accommodation consisted of a Villa which was going to 
be used by 12 guests.
Unfortunately, leading up to the trip it became apparent that some of Mrs Bs party were 
unable to travel due to circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic. Mrs B ended up 
travelling with around half of the intended party.
Mrs B contacted the supplier to get a refund for part of the original cost of the booking  to 
reflect those who were not able to travel. However, the supplier said its terms and conditions 
did not allow for this. 
Mrs B made a claim to Barclays to try and recover the refund. It didnt raise a chargeback as 
it considered it was out of time and would not have succeeded anyway. It also declined to 
uphold a claim via Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) and noted that 
the supplier had not breached its contract with Mrs B.
Mrs B complained about the outcome of her claim to Barclays. Our investigator looked at 
things and did not uphold her complaint.
Mrs B has asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. In summary, she says 
that she attempted to make contact with the supplier on multiple occasions from April 2020 
to discuss options such as cancelling or rescheduling the booking. However, the supplier did 
not answer the phone or emails. Mrs B says she was effectively forced to take the services 
with limited guests attending. And she could have cancelled and limited her losses had the 
supplier let her make contact. Mrs B says the supplier is in breach of contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service resolves disputes informally. So while I thank the parties for their submissions 
which I have read and considered I have not commented on everything, only the matters I 
consider to be central to this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the unfortunate change to Mrs Bs travelling party arising as a result 
of circumstances around the pandemic. However, Barclays didnt supply the travel services 
Mrs B bought and it is worth underlining here that the expectations on it are limited to its role 
as a provider of financial services. Therefore, I have focused on how it could reasonably 
have helped Mrs B with the specific card protections of chargeback and Section 75 in mind. I 
will consider each in turn.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a way that Barclays can dispute a charge made on Mrs Bs card. But how it 
can raise a dispute is limited by the chargeback scheme rules. I have considered the 
relevant card scheme rules in deciding if Barclays has acted fairly here.
I note in this case Barclays did not raise a chargeback. However, I dont think it has acted 
unfairly in doing so in the particular circumstances. It can only be expected to attempt a 
chargeback if there is a reasonable chance of success. However, in this case I dont think 
there was a reasonable chance of success  I will explain why.
I note that in this case the holiday services Mrs B purchased were available to use and she 
ended up using these too (albeit with fewer guests). So there isnt really a chargeback 
reason code that fits this situation. For example, a chargeback for something like a service 
not provided or a cancelled service would not likely have succeeded here. 
Furthermore, there are time limits to raise chargebacks and I note when Mrs B contacted 
Barclays to raise a dispute in October 2021 the chargeback reasons above would have been 
out of time in any event.
In summary, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly in not pursuing a chargeback here.
Section 75
Section 75 allows Mrs B, in certain circumstances to make a like claim against Barclays for 
the particular wrongdoing of a supplier of goods or services she paid for using her credit 
card. 
I am satisfied the technical requirements are in place for Mrs B to have a valid Section 75 
claim against Barclays in respect of the agreement she had with the supplier here. However, 
it is important to note that any like claim she may have against Barclays is limited to a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by said supplier. Mrs B has raised several points 
about what she considers to be less than ideal customer service but ultimately Barclays is 
not fairly liable unless it can be established that said supplier misrepresented or breached its 
contract with her.
I dont consider that Mrs Bs claim is about misrepresentation  nor is it something that has 
been a focus of this complaint. I dont think there is persuasive evidence of a 
misrepresentation by the supplier when Mrs B entered into the contract either. So I have 
turned to consider breach of contract in more detail.
There has been prior discussion as to the extent Mrs B could potentially recover losses via 
Section 75 in respect of a booking that includes several people in her extended family. This 
would only be relevant if I were determining that Mrs B had a valid claim against Barclays for 
breach of contract. However, because of my conclusions below I dont consider it necessary 
to go into this matter here.
In considering whether there has been a breach of contract by the supplier I have 
considered the contract between Mrs B and it including any implied terms by way of 
relevant legislation such as the Consumer Rights Act 2015. For example, that a service must 
be carried out with reasonable care and skill.
Mrs B purchased travel services from the supplier with her credit card which would appear to be considered a package holiday (as it consisted of accommodation and car hire). 
Therefore, said supplier is responsible for the performance of all the travel services and the 
provisions of the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 
(PTRS) are relevant. In coming to my findings I have considered these regulations and the 
terms they imply into a contract. 
Mrs B had briefly mentioned some quality-of-service issues with the accommodation, but it 
hasnt been a focus of her claim against Barclays, and she appears to have withdrawn this 
aspect. However, in the interest of completeness I have not seen persuasive evidence that 
the provision of services in respect of the villa would constitute a breach of contract here 
warranting compensation.
The focus of Mrs Bs complaint is that she feels she wasnt able to contact the supplier to 
discuss her options and as a result she has lost out. She mentions that she attempted to 
contact it several times to discuss these but was unsuccessful. Essentially she claims to 
have been deprived of certain information which has left her out of pocket.
Mrs B indicates the way the supplier acted was a failure of reasonable care and skill. 
However, I am not persuaded it would be considered a lack of reasonable care and skill here 
or some other breach of contract. I note that:
although the supplier limited its communication methods to prioritise certain customer 
situations this appears to have been in response to the unprecedented conditions 
around the pandemic;
Mrs B appears to have been able to get in touch with the supplier at times (and 
spoken to an agent on the phone) in respect of payment of the balance prior to the 
trip date; and
the information and options that Mrs B wanted to know about would have been 
available via the suppliers written terms and conditions. 
However, even if I were to accept that Mrs Bs difficulty in getting in touch with the supplier 
was something that might amount to a breach of contract, I dont think it would have made a 
difference here in any event. I say this because it appears from the correspondence on the 
file that Mrs B wanted to and had every intention of taking the trip until she found out some 
members of her party were unable to join her. So although she has said she was writing to 
the supplier from April 2020  from what I can see this appears to be with a view to checking 
the status of the holiday and paying the balance. 
Mrs B then writes to the supplier on 7 July 2020 to say that 7 of the 12 had to pull out 
suddenly. By this point I accept that Mrs B did want to explore a possible change in plans. 
However, I note she was so close to the time of the trip that any cancellation (in accordance 
with the suppliers terms and conditions) would have attracted a 100% cancellation fee in 
any event. The suppliers terms dont appear to allow for a pro-rata refund in this situation for 
people who dont attend either. Nor does there appear any contractual provision for 
rescheduling without it being treated as a cancellation. So I dont think Mrs Bs difficulties in 
contacting the supplier at a later stage have likely put her in a worse position than she would 
have been in otherwise.I have considered whether there are any implied terms by way of other relevant legislation 
(such as the PTRs) that would establish a breach of contract in the particular circumstances 
here. However, I dont think there are. In making this conclusion I note the reason for Mrs Bs 
reason for wanting to make a change was not because it was not possible to travel to the 
destination or any restrictions present there  but because family members pulled out at the 
last minute due to personal reasons related to the pandemic. 
I have thought about what Mrs B has said about having a right to information and options. I 
sympathise with what happened, and I know Mrs B is very disappointed she was not able to 
have everyone on the trip with her - I can understand that. However, ultimately I dont think 
there is a breach of contract (or misrepresentation) by the supplier that would fairly entitle 
her to the refund she wants. As a result I dont consider it fair and reasonable for Barclays to 
be held responsible to partially refund her via Section 75. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman