DRN-4191198
The complaint
Miss R complains that Mortgage Express hasnt treated her fairly in respect of a buy-to-let 
mortgage she held jointly with her now ex-husband. 
What happened
In 2008, a buy-to-let mortgage with Mortgage Express was taken out in Miss Rs name. Her 
husband was later convicted of fraud in relation to the property, amongst other things. Miss 
R said she had no knowledge of debts taken out in her name  including this mortgage. 
Despite that, Miss R maintained the mortgage payments for some time.
Miss R later discovered the property was in very poor condition. The tenants were also 
evicted as they werent paying rent. Miss R wanted to sell the property and spoke to 
Mortgage Express for help. But she said it didnt treat her fairly:
It didnt take properly take into account her husband has been convicted of fraud in 
relation to this matter or the circumstances in which the mortgage was taken out.
It agreed to accept a reduced payment arrangement, but it recorded adverse information 
on her credit file.
It acted prematurely in appointing receivers.
It made her pay a significant amount of money leaving her in debt and causing extreme 
stress and anxiety. 
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss R did not accept what the 
investigator said.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the mortgage 
I note what Miss R has said about how the mortgage came to be in her name. But she has 
told us that she signed the application form and she maintained the payments to the 
mortgage for a significant period. The rest of the evidence we have is unclear about her 
involvement in the purchase of the property  and certainly not sufficient for me to say that 
she is not liable for the mortgage or that it was wrong for Mortgage Express to hold her 
liable. 
While I was sorry to hear what Miss R told us shes been through, we do not have any 
independent evidence to support what she said.
Overall, I consider it is reasonable for Mortgage Express to hold Miss R liable for the 
mortgage. Miss R should seek legal advice about the options open to her if she wishes, 
including whether this matter can be taken into account in the financial settlement of her 
divorce, which she said had not concluded. 
adverse credit information
The evidence I have does not support that Mortgage Express ever told Miss R that she had 
any payment arrangement that would not impact her credit file.
I can see that Mortgage Express told Miss R that as long as the amount of arrears was less 
than one months mortgage payment, it would not record any missed payments on her credit 
file. This is correct information. It was fair and reasonable for Mortgage Express to record a 
missed payment when the arrears added up to more than one months payment.
Mortgage Express is obliged to record true and accurate information on its customers credit 
files. I am satisfied it has done so here.
receivers
One of the condition of the mortgage was to keep the property clean, well decorated and in 
good repair and condition. So it was reasonable for Mortgage Express to understand that 
Miss R was in breach of the terms and conditions when she told it the property was 
uninhabitable. As Miss R was in breach of the terms and conditions of the mortgage it was 
reasonable for Mortgage Express  to issue a final demand and then to appoint receivers.
Mortgage Express acted fairly by agreeing to stand down the received and to give Miss R a 
period of grace. That was to postpone the appointment of receivers for two months to give 
Miss R time to arrange a remortgage or raise the money needed to repay the debt to 
Mortgage Express. That was subject to various conditions, including payment of £13,000, all 
arrears cleared and all payments made on time. 
There was no requirement for Mortgage Express to agree the grace period. It was entitled to 
set its own conditions for it. And it was for Miss R to decide whether to agree to those 
conditions or not. I think it would be difficult for me to criticise Mortgage Express for agreeing 
the period of grace.
Miss R appears to have misunderstood the requirements of the period of grace as she did 
not maintain payments to the mortgage. As a result, Mortgage Express issued a formal 
demand for full repayment of the mortgage. I understand that Miss R then sold the property 
and redeemed the full amount due.
It was reasonable for Mortgage Express to issue another formal demand when Miss R 
breached the conditions of the period of grace. It set out clearly this would happen if any of 
the conditions were not met.
It was Miss Rs decision how to raise the funds to comply with the period of grace and then 
to repay the mortgage. I appreciate that may have caused her some financial difficulty along 
with a lot of stress. But I dont consider that was due to any unfair or unreasonable treatment 
or undue pressure from Mortgage Express. I say that as Ive already found that it was 
reasonable for it to hold Miss R liable for the mortgage and that Mortgage Express has acted 
fairly. It reflected that Miss R was in breach of the mortgage conditions. 
other points
Miss R has raised concerns that the property was over-valued to begin with. It is not clear that it actually forms part of the complaint Miss R referred to us. 
In any event, as the investigator said, if Miss R did choose to raise this complaint with us it is 
very unlikely we would be able to consider it as its about event more than six years ago and 
Miss R knew there was a problem more than three years ago.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman