DRN-2957210
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a number of payments made from his 
account which he says he didnt make.
What happened
In September 2020, a number of payments were made out of Mr Gs account which he says 
he didnt make. The payments were all made on the same day to an online gambling 
company, totalling around £1,800.
Santander investigated the payments but said they had all been made from the same device 
and IP address used to make other payments Mr G wasnt disputing and that money for the 
payments had been moved from another account in Mr Gs name just before they were 
made. So it didnt agree to refund them. Mr G wasnt happy with Santanders response, so 
referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said they thought it was likely Mr G had 
authorised the payments himself, so they didnt think Santander should have to refund them. 
Mr G disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally a business can hold a consumer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that they made them themselves or told 
someone else they could make them.
Santander has sent us technical evidence showing how the payments were made. And from 
this, Im satisfied the payments were all made using Mr Gs genuine card and online banking 
details. But this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Santander to hold Mr G responsible. So I 
also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr G 
consented to the payments.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Mr G says hes never given told anyone else his online banking details. But, if this is the 
case, I cant see how someone other than him would have been able to log-in to his online 
banking in order to make the payments.
Santanders evidence also shows the payments were all made using the same device and IP 
address as several previous payments, and as several log-ins to Mr Gs online banking both 
before and after the payments  which Mr G accepts were done by him. And Mr G has said 
no-one else has access to his phone. So, for someone else to have made these payments, 
they would have had to gain access to Mr Gs phone, while likely in his house, and return it 
to him without him noticing. And I think this is unlikely.
The disputed payments were all also funded by money being moved from another account in 
Mr Gs name, which isnt the sort of behaviour Id expect to see from a fraudster. And there 
are a number of payments out of Mr Gs account to similar online gambling companies 
around the same time, which Mr G accepts were done by him.
I appreciate how Mr G feels about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in his favour. 
And, based on the evidence I have, I think its likely Mr G either made the transactions 
himself or authorised someone else to do so.
It therefore follows that I dont need to look into whether the payments were unusual in 
comparison to Mr Gs usual activity on the account or whether Santander should have 
identified the payments as potentially fraudulent as, even if it had done so, I think its likely 
Mr G would have confirmed he had authorised them.
So I think Santander has acted reasonably in holding Mr G liable for the payments and I 
dont think it needs to refund the payments to him.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman