DRN-2936165
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint arises following a pension contribution he made in July 2019 to his pension 
plan with The Prudential Assurance Company Ltd (Prudential). 
What happened
Mr H established a self invested personal pension (SIPP) with Prudential in 2017. All 
payments into the SIPP have been made as employer contributions. The transaction record 
shows employer contributions of £39,200 in the tax year 2017/18 and £40,000 in the tax year 
2018/19. In in the 2019/20 tax year, between 15 April 2019 and 15 July 2019, regular 
monthly employer contributions amounting to £8,000 were made. In early July 2019 Mr H 
made an additional lump sum employer contribution of £16,000 through the web portal. 
On 12 July 2019 Mr H emailed Prudential because the contribution was showing as an 
employee contribution. He asked them to correct the transaction, so it showed as an 
employer contribution. A contract note summary issued on 8 August 2019 still showed the 
contribution as an employee contribution, with £4,000 tax relief being applied. 
Prudential had made a mistake applying the contribution. It seems that Prudential invested 
the same £16,000 pension contribution twice in error. Unfortunately, when Prudential tried to 
reverse the transaction, the £16,000 was returned to Mr Hs bank account on 9 August 2019. 
On 17 September 2019 Prudential emailed Mr H saying that the £16,000 had been sent to 
his bank on 9 August 2019 in error and when it shouldve been sent to Prudentials internal 
bank account to reinvest it correctly as an employer contribution. Prudential asked Mr H to 
return the £16,000. A further email was sent on 9 October 2019. Prudential also tried to 
contact Mr H by telephone. On 2 December 2019 Prudential sent the same request by letter. 
I understand that Mr Hs bank wrote to him twice in December 2019, asking him to get in 
contact about the credit.
In his email to Prudential on 23 December 2019 Mr H said hed asked for a call back which 
hadnt happened. He didnt think contacting his bank was professional and he asked 
Prudential to contact him instead. He said hed wasted an hour on the telephone to his bank 
when letters were sent. He costed his time at £275. 
Prudential acknowledged the complaint by letter dated 24 December 2019. Prudential called 
Mr H on 30 December 2019. Mr H was unhappy with that call which he felt was aggressive. 
Theres also an email sent on 31 December 2019 saying Mr H needed to return the £16,000 
within two weeks. Prudential called Mr H and discussed his concerns on 22 January 2020.  
In its final response dated 27 January 2020 Prudential set out Mr Hs concerns as: 
The poor service hed received when he called and emailed to try and resolve the 
matter.
He hadnt been called back when promised.
Prudential had contacted his bank to request the return of the payment.
Prudential apologised for the poor service. It said Mr H had been called back and his bank 
was contacted as the next step in the process to try to retrieve the funds as Prudential hadnt 
been able to contact him. A new email would be sent to him confirming the bank details and 
a reference to use for returning the money. A payment of £150 would be made in recognition 
of the poor service and the inconvenience caused. 
I think Prudential also called Mr H on 27 January 2020. Mr H emailed Prudential on 28 
January 2020. He said hed made the payment and he wanted a formal letter confirming 
receipt and that the matter was now closed. Prudential issued a letter on 29 January 2019 
confirming the £16,000 incorrectly issued to Mr H on 9 August 2019 had been received on 
28 January 2020, adding This error has not financially disadvantaged the plan.
An annual statement was issued on 9 February 2020 which showed the payments made into 
the plan over the previous twelve months. 
On 19 March 2020 Mr H emailed Prudential with a screen shot of the transactions around 9 
August 2019 and asked for clarification as there were multiple entries. Mr H said he was 
concerned extra monies had been taken. Following Mr H chasing a reply on 2 April 2020, 
Prudential responded saying, amongst other things, that it was confident that extra funds 
hadnt been taken.
Mr H wasnt happy with what Prudential had said and replied on 3 April 2020 saying hed 
been unable to make payment without an explanation. Prudential then sent him a transaction 
history for 2019/2020. Mr H emailed on 23 April 2020 saying hed received, weeks later, 
information he couldve downloaded himself. He said Prudentials delays had meant he 
hadnt been able to maximise his 2019/2020 pension contributions. 
Prudential issued a third final response on 27 May 2020, to address the further points Mr H 
had raised. Prudential upheld the complaint because it hadnt answered Mr Hs queries in a 
timely manner but not the complaint about him having been prevented from paying into his 
pension. Prudential said Mr H had asked on 19 March 2020 for confirmation of the 
transactions surrounding the £16,000 payment applied in August 2019. He didnt get a reply 
within the required timescales and a proper explanation wasnt provided. 
Prudential went on to explain the four transactions shown on the table supplied to Mr H. The 
adjustments which had to be made on its system were complex and it wasnt as easy as just 
moving cash and had to be moved out of different funds with adjustments to ensure it was 
applied correctly. When the £16,000 was received from Mr H in January 2020 it was applied 
to his plan. A letter was sent on 29 January 2020 confirming it had been applied and no 
financial impact had been caused. An annual statement was sent on 9 February 2020 which 
confirmed what had been paid in over the last twelve months. It gave Mr H the information 
he required and there was enough time to utilise any used annual allowance and make 
additional payments in the pension.  
Mr H emailed on 27 May 2020 asking for an explanation for each and every transaction 
relating to the error and a full explanation. He followed up on 10 June 2020, attaching a 
spreadsheet highlighting all the transactions requiring an explanation. Several further 
chasers were sent. 
On 15 July 2020 Mr H was notified by email that the complaint had been referred to the 
Chief Executives Office (CEOs office) and his earlier complaint had been re-opened. 
Attached was a spreadsheet with an explanation for each of the transactions. 
The CEOs office sent an email (a further final response letter) on 28 August 2020. 
Prudential accepted a better level of service couldve been provided and apologised for the inconvenience caused. Prudential said it had attempted to clarify the position and the 
transactions and sub transactions surrounding the contribution of £16,000 made in August 
2019. Hopefully the information sent on 15 July 2020 had done that. Prudential wasnt 
prepared to pay Mr Hs invoice for the time (as an adviser) hed spent on the matter. But it 
said a payment of £300 would be made.
Mr H replied on 3 September 2020 pointing out that the response hadnt addressed the loss 
of his annual allowance for the tax year 2019/20. Prudential replied on 8 September 2020. It 
agreed it had been at fault in respect of the £16,000 contribution but not that it was liable for 
the loss of the annual allowance. It referred to what it had said in its previous complaint 
response dated 27 May 2020, which confirmed that Mr Hs plan was sitting correctly prior to 
the end of the tax year. Had he chosen to proceed with further contributions that wouldnt 
have had any impact on the outstanding request for information. Prudential appreciated Mr H 
wanted further details about each transaction and sub transaction relating to the £16,000 
contribution. But it was ultimately his decision not to proceed with any further contributions 
until he received the information hed requested. Prudential didnt agree it was liable for this 
element of the complaint and wasnt prepared to offer further compensation. 
Mr H remained unhappy and referred the matter to us. He said Prudential had invested a 
single pension payment of £16,000 twice. Thered been a delay in trying to sort things out, 
despite Mr H chasing. He lost his annual allowance for the 2019/2020 tax year and it cant 
be carried forward. It all took nine months and was only resolved following the CEO offices 
intervention. He was seeking compensation for the time taken and the long term impact of 
the loss of the annual allowance. 
Mr H discussed his complaint with the investigator who was initially considering the 
complaint. It was later reallocated to another investigator who issued his view on 3 June 
2021. He didnt uphold the complaint. His main points were: 
Following the erroneous transaction in July 2019, no further contributions were made 
in the 2019/20 tax year. In total Mr H had made employer contributions of £24,000, 
so there was potential to make further contributions of £16,000 on or before 5 April 
2020.
It was on 19 March 2020 when hed first began to make enquiries about the 
corrective transactions that had taken place on 9 August 2019. This was twelve 
working days before the end of the tax year. The initial email didnt specify the level 
of clarification, didnt indicate that the lack of information was preventing Mr H from 
making further contributions or express any urgency given the approaching tax year 
end.
Equally, Prudential shouldve responded to Mr Hs enquiry sooner. He only received 
a response after sending a further email on 2 April 2020 explaining hed wanted to 
invest in the current tax year. But by then there was only one working day left. 
The investigator thought Prudentials response was reasonable: it explained the 
reason for the multiple deductions and gave an assurance that extra funds had not 
been debited.
In his response the same day, Mr H said he required further explanation and that, 
without it, he was unable to make a payment. But the email didnt make clear that the 
decision to maximise pension contributions for tax year 2019/20 was contingent on 
Prudential explaining these transactions further, or specifically what degree of 
explanation was required.
The onus was on the member to calculate the aggregate pension input amount for all 
their pensions at the end of a tax year and to compare this to the annual allowance 
for that tax year and report any excess contributions their self-assessment tax-return. 
There was no reason why Mr H wouldve declared pension contributions in excess of £40,000. As the member and company director, he was aware that contributions of 
only £24,000 had been made. The annual statement issued on 9 February 2020 
confirmed the contributions made in the previous twelve months. 
The investigator added that Mr H couldve made use of carry forward in the 2020/2021 tax 
year. The investigator set out his understanding of the position. He agreed that Prudential 
couldve responded to Mr Hs 19 March 2020 enquiry sooner. But the trouble and upset 
payment already offered was within the range the investigator wouldve recommended.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans review. His 
main points were:  
He hadnt waited until the last minute to query the payments on account. Hed been 
requesting an explanation for all of the payments/transactions since the account was
incorrectly administered.
There were so many transactions on the account (not a simple removal) that he 
required an explanation before investing further.
Prudential consistently failed to explain the numerous/needless transactions until the 
following tax year - despite constant chasers. 
What the investigator had said about pension premiums was wrong. As a company 
director, Mr H had a duty to ensure all parts of the tax regime and laws are adhered 
to. He couldnt invest further without a proper explanation. He couldnt have been 
expected to pay £16,000 without any explanation of the transactions.
Hed spoken to the previous investigator at some length about the complaint. 
The investigator replied saying Mr Hs complaint was that the annual allowance for 
2019/2020 had been lost. The investigators understanding was that Mr H could still make 
full use of carry forward so, assuming he fully funded for the current year, the unused annual 
allowance could still be used. 
Mr H replied saying as it was an employer premium, the annual allowance ceased in that tax 
year. His income wasnt enough to allow carry forward for that year. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered everything. But Ive focused on what I consider to be the key 
factors.
Mr H clearly feels very unhappy with whats happened and Prudentials handling of the 
matter, including the time taken to sort things out. But essentially I agree with the 
investigator that there were service issues but the sums already paid by Prudential are 
reasonable compensation for the inconvenience caused. And I dont see that Prudentials 
handling of the matter meant Mr H was unable to make a further employer contribution 
before the end of the 2019/2020 tax year. 
Prudential accepts that it made an error with the employer contribution made in July 2019. It 
seems Prudential applied the same contribution twice in error. Mr H contacted Prudential on 
12 July 2019 saying it had been applied as an employee contribution and asking for it to be 
corrected. The contract note issued on 8 August 2019 still showed it as an employee contribution. So, over a month after the contribution had been made and almost a month 
after Mr H had pointed out thered been an error, it hadnt been corrected. 
And when Prudential did try on 9 August 2019 to reverse the transaction, the money was 
sent back to Mr Hs bank instead of being retained by Prudential. And it seems it wasnt until 
over a month later, on 17 September 2019, that Prudential, I assume having by then realised 
what had happened, contacted Mr H and asked him to return the money. 
Unfortunately it seems Mr H was unable to do that promptly. Prudential sent several 
requests in September and October 2019. And Prudential tried to contact Mr H by telephone. 
Theres a telephone note dated 26 November 2019 which records that Prudential spoke to 
Mr H but he said he was too busy and Prudential should call back later. It seems Prudential 
did that but the call went to voicemail and a message was left. Prudential then wrote to Mr H 
on 2 December 2019 before then contacting his bank.  
Prudential shouldnt have returned the money to Mr Hs bank. But, having made that (further) 
mistake, Prudential was dependent on Mr H returning the money so that Prudential could 
then correctly reapply it as an employer contribution. 
I think Prudential made considerable efforts to get the money back. I dont think Prudential 
can be blamed for the time that elapsed between mid September 2019, when Prudential first 
asked for the money back, and December 2019, when Mr H was in contact with Prudential 
about returning the money. 
I know Mr H is particularly unhappy that Prudential contacted his bank who in turn got in 
touch with Mr H. Hes said he had to spend time on the phone to his bank about the issue. I 
think Prudential contacted Mr Hs bank because it had been unable to resolve the repayment 
issue with Mr H and in an attempt to sort things out. But I do have some sympathy with why 
Mr H feels Prudential shouldnt have taken that step. And Im not sure if Prudential told Mr H 
before contacting his bank that would be the next step. 
Ive also seen that there seems to have been some further problems in December 2019. 
Including that Mr H hadnt received a requested call back. He was also unhappy with a 
telephone call and an email, both at the end of December 2019. But I think Mr H accepted 
Prudentials apologies and the payment it made for the poor service hed received. 
Mr H did then return the payment and it appeared that by the end of January 2020 the matter 
had been resolved. And a plan statement issued on 9 February 2020 correctly showed what 
had been paid into the plan over the past twelve months.
Unfortunately the matter wasnt resolved to Mr Hs satisfaction and he got back in touch with 
Prudential on 19 March 2020, requesting clarification of the transactions in connection with 
correcting the error. I can understand Mr Hs concern that extra monies may have been 
taken. And Im conscious that he may have been very busy. Especially as the end of the tax 
year was coming up and he may have had extra work and enquiries due to the emerging 
pandemic. But, although I dont criticise Mr H for not following up earlier, nor do I think its 
Prudentials fault that he wasnt able to query things further sooner. 
I also tend to agree with the investigator that when Mr H raised his further queries on 19 
March 2020, he didnt indicate any particular urgency or that deciding whether to make 
further contributions before the end of the tax year rested on Prudentials response and 
explanations. 
I also bear in mind what Ive said above about the time that elapsed between September and 
December 2019. I dont think its unreasonable to assume, had the payment been returned sooner, everything wouldve happened earlier  reversing and applying the contribution 
correctly wouldve been sorted out quicker and Mr Hs further queries wouldve been raised 
earlier and with more of a window left before the end of the tax year. 
And I dont altogether understand why Mr H felt unable to make any further contributions 
without a more in depth explanation of how the errors had been put right. It seems he was 
concerned about the multiple accountancy entries, transactions and sub transactions 
apparently needed to correct the mistakes that Prudential had made, both in incorrectly 
applying the contribution and then seeking to reverse and correct it and taking into account 
that Prudential had also in error returned the money. 
But Mr H knew the level of employer contributions hed made during the year and that, if he 
wanted to make further contributions, what headroom he had.
 
While I appreciate that Mr H wanted further details, I think he had enough information to be 
able to make any further contributions that he was planning. It was his decision not to 
proceed with any further contributions until he received the information hed requested. 
Although I think Prudential shouldve responded more promptly to the further queries Mr H 
raised on 19 March 2020, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say that Prudentials 
delay meant Mr H was prevented from making further pension contributions before the 
2019/2020 tax year ended. 
Prudential has admitted there were service failings on its part and has offered compensation 
for the inconvenience that resulted. I think the sums offered are fair and reasonable and in 
line with what wed award. Mr Hs complaint is made in his personal capacity and we 
wouldnt make an award for the time hes spent based on what he might charge his clients in 
his professional capacity. 
Lastly theres been some discussion between Mr H and the investigator about if Mr H is able 
to make up missed contributions using the carry forward provisions. I dont think the position 
is straightforward. But I havent really looked into it, given my view is that Prudential isnt 
responsible for Mr H losing the opportunity to maximise employer contributions for the 
2019/2020 tax year. 
Whether Mr H could do something to avoid or mitigate any loss would only be relevant if I 
agreed that Prudentials handling of the matter meant Mr H had lost the opportunity to make 
further employer contributions before the end of the 2019/2020 tax year. For the reasons Ive 
explained above, I dont think that was down to Prudential and the mistake it made with the 
£16,000 contribution and/or any failure to put that right promptly. 
So, even if Mr Hs position has been compromised and he cant now make up the employer 
contributions that hed have made before the end of the 2019/2020 tax year, Im not going to 
make any award for that. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman