DRN-1576839
 
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as TSB) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs B and Mr B bought a MPPI policy which started in January 1998 to protect their 
mortgage repayments. The policy was added during a meeting with an advisor from Lloyds. 
Mr B was covered against accidents, sickness and unemployment. The mortgage ended in 
October 2002. 
Mrs B and Mr B believe Lloyds mis-sold the policy. They say they were not aware MPPI was 
an optional product.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mrs B and Mr B dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs B and Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint because of the following reasons:
I cant be sure how or if the policy was presented to Mrs B and Mr B during the 
meeting and a lot of time has passed since they were sold it. Ive looked at what they 
said about how the policy was sold  including that they say they had no recollection 
of being sold it. But I think, after considering the documentation provided and what 
I know of how Lloyds sold policies at that time, it is most likely that they were advised 
it was a good idea to have the insurance to protect their mortgage repayments, and 
they took it on that advice.
 
I have come to this conclusion because the sales documentation I have suggests to 
me that the policy was presented as optional. I can see on the mortgage application 
form that a box is ticked in a separate section for MPPI, to show the insurance has 
been chosen. So although it is possible the sale took place as Mrs B and Mr B 
recollect, I have not seen enough information to support what they say so that I can 
safely conclude anything other than they were given a choice to have the policy.
 Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Mrs B and Mr B, but it doesnt 
look as if it was unsuitable for Mr B (as the sole policy holder) based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr B didnt have enough provisions that I can 
see at the time of sale that would have meant he wouldnt have had at least some 
use of the benefit offered by having the cover (He says he would have relied on 6 
months full and 6 months half sick pay). Mr B could have claimed benefit that would 
have paid alongside his sick pay and for longer. I can also see no other reasons such 
as a significant or restrictive term that would make the policy unsuitable.
 
Im unsure as to whether Lloyds clearly disclosed the costs of the policy to                   
Mrs B and Mr B. But even if it did, I dont think it wouldve changed Mrs B and Mr Bs 
decision to have the policy for the reasons I have already given. It was reasonably 
priced compared to similar policies available at the time and to the monthly mortgage 
repayment. And Mrs B and Mr B could have cancelled the MPPI if it did become 
unaffordable.
 
I consider that the policy provided Mrs B and Mr B with a useful additional benefit for 
a reasonable cost to protect their home in the event that it was necessary for Mr B to 
make a claim. Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr B wouldve been affected by any of these based on his 
circumstances at the time.
 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B and Mr B, but on balance, I do not uphold 
their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman