DRN-2448032
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about their home insurer, Society of Lloyd's (SOL) because 
it declined their claim made for storm damage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Rs property benefits from what they consider to be a balcony which runs across 
the back of their house, with stairs leading down to the rear garden. The area contains glass 
panes around its edge and in March 2019 Mr and Mrs R told SOL damage had occurred. 
SOL began to consider the claim.
In October Mr and Mrs R sent a quote and invoices for repair. In December 2019 SOL told 
Mr and Mrs R it was declining the claim. It said the area was a terrace, damage for which is 
specifically excluded from cover for damage caused by storm. Mr and Mrs R were unhappy 
as they believed the area was a balcony, meaning SOL should cover their claim. They 
complained to this service. 
Our investigator felt that SOLs decision that the area was a terrace, meaning the damage 
was excluded from cover, was fair and reasonable. However, it was felt that the policy 
should respond in respect of the damage which had occurred to the fixed glass.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy. They maintained this area was a balcony and not a terrace, as 
a terrace would be on the ground and separate from the building. They said the list of 
excluded items were all usually situated apart from the home, whereas their balcony was an 
integral part of it. They confirmed the glass panels hadnt yet been replaced. SOL didnt 
object to the findings about fixed glass, but noted the £100 policy excess would apply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
storm cover
Mr and Mrs Rs policy offers cover for storm damage. But within that cover damage to 
certain parts of the buildings is specifically excluded. That includes damage to terraces. Im 
not persuaded that all items on that exclusion list are always separate from the home; 
indeed many fences are attached to properties and a lot of patios and/or terraces extend 
from the main building, creating an external living space.
Mr and Mrs R argue that the feature in question at their property is a balcony not a terrace. 
Im not persuaded that is the case. I think a terrace can be raised and doesnt have to be 
separate from the building. A structure built as a balcony is traditionally built into the side of a 
building, taking its support from the main structure. Whilst the structure at Mr and Mrs Rs 
home was built as part of the main building it is not supported by the main structure of the 
home. I think SOLs decision that the structure in question here is a terrace and not a 
balcony was fair and reasonable.
accidental damage to glass
In addition to the storm cover though, the policy includes cover for:
A. Glass and Sanitary Ware
The cost of accidental damage to:
 Fixed glass

[which forms] part of the buildings
Part of the damage reported to the terrace was broken glass panels which had been fixed to 
steel supports. The terrace is part of the buildings as defined in the policy. There is no 
exclusion in this part of the cover for anything excluded elsewhere within other areas of 
policy cover. Im satisfied that SOL should always have offered cover under the policy to 
Mr and Mrs R for the damaged glass panels. If it had, a policy excess would have been 
charged. I understand that the panels have yet to be replaced.
Putting things right
SOL should, upon sight of proof from Mr and Mrs R as to the costs they will incur, make a 
payment to allow them to reinstate the glass panels, less the policy excess. But if they would 
rather SOL completes this work  as it may be difficult to find someone to do this in the 
current climate and they pay their policy excess  SOL should do so. 
Im not going to require SOL to add interest to any payment it makes to Mr and Mrs R. Thats 
because they havent yet incurred a cost for replacing the panels, so havent been left out of 
pocket by SOLs failure to offer cover in this respect. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require SOL to provide the resolution set out above at 
Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman