DRN-3242168
The complaint
Mrs A complains the payments of her spouses pension from Aviva were fraudulently paid to 
a bank account that wasnt hers. She says that Aviva failed to conduct sufficient checks to 
ensure correct payment details.
What happened
Mrs A was entitled to a widows pension from Aviva following the death of her husband in 
2007. 
This was put in place in 2012 when Aviva contacted Mrs A and received a completed 
Payment Application Form as well as the supporting documents that it needed. This included 
a certified copy of Mrs As husbands death certificate and a copy of Mrs As passport.
In December 2012 Aviva made a payment of £1,791.33 into the bank account details 
provided, in respect of the missed pension payments from February 2007. It then continued 
to pay Mrs As widows pension into that account until 2019 when the bank returned 
payments. In total £3,633.12 was paid into that account.
Aviva wrote to Mrs A in 2019 and again in 2020 asking for new payment details because her 
pension payments had been returned.
Mrs As representative contacted Aviva to explain that Mrs A had never received the 
payments because the bank account theyd been sending payments to since 2012 wasnt 
hers. Mrs A suspected that her daughter, who had been helping her with her financial affairs 
after her husband passed away, had set up the payment fraudulently. Mrs A complained to 
Aviva that it hadnt properly verified the bank account for her payments, which had enabled 
the fraud to take place.
Aviva investigated the complaint but didnt agree it had done anything wrong. It explained 
that it didnt require account verification to set up payments in 2012. And that nothing in the 
information it had could have given them cause to suspect fraud.
Mrs A didnt accept Avivas explanation and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into things and thought that Mrs As complaint should be upheld. But Aviva didnt 
agree that our investigators assessment was fair. It didnt agree that a change in the way 
the form was completed and the signature was unusual, and most likely indicative of a 
consumer receiving help with the form. Aviva accepted that the absence of the account 
holders name on the form should have led to a follow up. But didnt think that it would have 
resulted in a different outcome in a case where Mrs As post was being addressed by the 
person suspected of carrying out the fraud. Aviva maintained that the payments had been 
made in good faith to the account details that they were given.
I issued my provisional decision to both parties explaining why I didnt think Mrs As 
complaint should be upheld. Ive had responses from both parties. Mrs A has provided 
further evidence that Mrs As original identification documents were returned to Mrs As 
daughter. Which caused me to ask for further information from Aviva about how they 
corresponded with Mrs A and Mrs As daughter in the run up to the payments being put into 
place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would start again by saying how sorry I am that Mrs A has found herself in this position. To 
suffer the loss of her husband must have been difficult. And now, it must be upsetting to 
come to terms with the fact that a person shed entrusted to help her may have taken 
advantage of that trust over a number of years. 
Having recognised the fact that these events will have clearly had a significant impact on 
Mrs A, I have to base my decision in this case on whether Aviva did anything wrong that 
made them responsible for what happened. And, whilst I appreciate that my decision will 
disappoint Mrs A, the extra evidence Ive received hasnt changed my mind.
Weve seen correspondence that indicates that Aviva sent a number of reminder letters out 
between 2007 and 2012 to try to arrange payment of the pensions death benefits. Letters 
were sent to Mrs As address but werent responded to. Aviva have shown us a letter that 
they sent to Mrs As daughter in 2010 asking her whether the pension should be set up for 
Mrs A. 
To explain why Aviva wrote to Mrs As daughter, it supplied us with a copy of a Grant of 
Administration from the High Court of Justice. Having looked at it I think that Aviva were 
entitled to consider that Mrs As daughter had authority to administer Mrs As husbands 
estate on Mrs As behalf. 
I understand that Mrs A has suggested that the document was fraudulent and that Mrs A 
hadnt authorised it. Im only able to consider the copy of the document that Aviva kept on 
record. It returned the original in 2007. It isnt my place to say whether the Grant of Authority 
is genuine. The issuing court would be able to confirm that. But I need to decide whether it 
was reasonable of Aviva to recognise it as a genuine grant of authority. And given that Aviva 
had sight of the original document, Im satisfied that it acted fairly in accepting it to be 
genuine.
In 2012 Aviva received a completed Payment Authorisation Form along with a certified copy 
of Mr As death certificate and a copy of Mrs As passport. The Payment Authorisation Form 
had been sent to Mrs A at her home address with correspondence to inform her of the 
widows pension that she was entitled to. So I dont think it was unreasonable of Aviva to 
consider Mrs A had received it and was responding.
Mrs A has questioned whether it was reasonable of Aviva to send the identification 
documents back to her daughter. But it is likely, from the wording of the letter accompanying 
the return of the documents, that theyd being received from the daughter. I dont think it was 
unreasonable to return documents to the sender of those documents when that person is 
already linked to the account via the earlier grant of authority from the court. Ultimately, I 
dont think that there was any reason for Aviva to have viewed this as suspicious.
In 2012, when this payment instruction was set up, Aviva didnt require bank account 
verification. And it wasnt required by the regulator or industry practice. So I cant say that 
Aviva failed Mrs A by not asking for account verification. Aviva needed to ensure that the recipient of the pension payments was the person entitled to 
the benefit on the policy. And the documents that it received were sufficient to satisfy them 
that the person responding to them was Mrs A. Whether with the assistance of her daughter 
or not.
The Payment Authorisation Form wasnt correctly completed though. The name of the 
account holder wasnt provided on the form. Aviva noted this in its investigation into the 
complaint. And I agree that it should have been spotted at the time. If it had been, in line with 
Avivas practice at that time, I think its most likely that it would have returned the form to be 
completed. Which I think would have been a proportionate response to a form not being 
correctly completed. I dont think its fair to say that it should have triggered a request for 
account verification through the provision of bank statements etc.
Unfortunately, given the nature of what was described as occurring, I dont think that 
returning the form would have made a difference to what happened. I say that because its 
suggested that this fraud was enabled by the fact that Mrs As daughter was dealing with 
Mrs As post. So in the same way that it was possible for her to complete the Payment 
Authority (that had been sent to Mrs A) and send supporting documentation (personal to Mrs 
A) in the first place, she could just as easily have returned the corrected form with the 
missing name filled in. So even if Aviva had picked up the discrepancy at the time, I dont 
think that it would have been enough to indicate a potential fraud, or to indicate a need for 
further checks into the receiving bank account. 
Ive considered the issue of whether there was anything in the way the form was completed 
that should have given Aviva cause to be concerned about fraudulent activity. The form was 
handwritten. And correctly records Mrs As name, date of birth, address and NI number. The 
signature is written out in capital letters and does look like it may have been signed in 
different handwriting. But it looks like a close match for Mrs As signature that we have on file 
on our complaint form. I accept that it may not have been signed by Mrs A, but it has been 
signed in a similar way to her signature. And is close enough to her signature that a check of 
it would be unlikely to have triggered further checks.
I dont think it would be reasonable to conclude Avivas suspicions should have been raised 
by the fact the signature may not have matched the handwriting on the rest of the form. 
There are many instances where a person may require help in completing forms, but still 
sign them. And in this case, had this been a genuine application on Mrs As behalf filled out 
with the help of a third party, and signed by Mrs A, I think its more likely than not that it 
would have looked very similar.
A confirmation letter indicating that the annuity payments were in place was sent to Mrs As 
home address. And Aviva have told us that pension statements were sent to Mrs A at her 
home address too. It tried numerous times after it was notified that Mrs As husband had 
passed away. That included writing to Mrs A and her daughter, but it still took until 2012 to 
put the pension payment in place. Overall, I dont think Aviva have done anything wrong. 
For the reasons Ive given I dont think that Aviva could have acted in a way to prevent the 
unfortunate result in this case. I understand that Mrs A has also passed this matter to the 
police to investigate, and I hope that helps to bring the matter to resolution. If, as is 
suggested, the person responsible for this fraud can be identified, then Mrs A can still pursue 
that person for the loss she has suffered.
My final decision
For the above reasons I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman