DRN-3207443
The complaint
 Ms C complains about TSB Bank plcs decision to make her credit card account dormant 
without notifying her. Ms C is also unhappy that TSB Bank plc told Ms C shed need to wait 
six months before applying for a new credit card.
What happened
Ms C held a credit card with TSB since July 2016. The last transaction on the account was 
made in July 2018 and left the account in credit by £5. In April 2020, Ms C attempted to 
make a transaction online using her credit card  but it was declined. Ms C complained to 
TSB and found out that her credit card account was dormant. 
Ms C held other personal and business accounts  both always in credit  with TSB. She 
was disappointed that TSB had made her credit card account inactive without telling her. 
Ms C explained that she needed to use her credit card in April 2020 due to the ongoing 
Covid-19 pandemic and the difficulty in her accessing funds through other means due to her 
health vulnerabilities and performance of her business. She brought the complaint to our 
service.
TSB confirmed it was their policy to make customers accounts dormant after 12 months of 
inactivity. They explained this was because the customers circumstances may have 
changed in that time and therefore, they would need to reassess affordability. TSB explained 
that once an account becomes dormant, the customer would need to wait six months before 
applying for further credit.
Our investigator upheld Ms Cs complaint in part. He thought it was reasonable TSB made 
Ms Cs credit card account dormant due to the inactivity and was satisfied they didnt have to 
notify her of this decision. He also thought it was reasonable to ask Ms C to reapply for a 
new credit card so they could re-assess her financial circumstances before deciding on 
whether to lend to her. But our investigator didnt think asking Ms C to wait six months before 
reapplying was fair. He acknowledged that was TSBs policy, but he didnt think it was fair. 
And he thought making Ms C wait six months to reapply for a credit card which she said she 
needed to use because of the pandemic would have been stressful. He thought TSB should 
pay Ms C £100 compensation.
Ms C responded to our investigators complaint and after some further correspondence, 
agreed with it. She did however ask that TSB honour the same credit limit and interest rate 
which she had before. 
TSB disagreed. They said other banks use the same six-month wait policy and its been in 
place for years. They didnt think they should need to pay Ms C any compensation. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Firstly, its important to point out that I cant stipulate what policies and procedures a bank 
should have in place or ask them to change them. But I can uphold a complaint if I think a 
customer has been treated unfairly because of a policy or procedure the bank has in place. 
I recognise Ms C held multiple accounts with TSB and she thinks the balances from her 
other accounts should have been considered before TSB made her credit card dormant. I 
can appreciate why Ms C feels this way  however I can understand TSBs actions in 
reviewing the accounts separately. Firstly, Ms Cs business is a separate legal entity to her 
personally; so, while her business may have a high cashflow, it doesnt give TSB any 
indication into Ms Cs personal financial circumstances. Ms C said her personal account was 
always in credit, but again I dont think this means TSB shouldnt have made her credit card 
dormant after 12 months inactivity. TSB have a duty to lend responsibly, and if they havent 
got any recent transaction history relating to a credit card account, they have no reasonable 
way of knowing whether the credit, interest rate and potential repayments are still affordable. 
Because of that, Im satisfied TSBs actions when deciding to classify Ms Cs credit card as 
dormant was reasonable. Like the investigator, I havent seen anything to suggest TSB 
should have told Ms C about their decision  so I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this 
point.
Ive explained TSBs duty to lend responsibly above, and therefore, I think its reasonable for 
them to ask Ms C to reapply for a new credit card account if she wants one. I recognise 
Ms C wants the same interest rate and limit as she had before  but I cant reasonably ask 
TSB to do that. I say that because TSBs lending criteria and/or Ms Cs financial 
circumstances may have been different when she first applied for the credit card account in 
2016 compared to now. The only appropriate way TSB can decide whether to lend to Ms C 
again is to assess her circumstances at the time she applies.
TSBs policy is to ask a customer to wait six months before reapplying for borrowing after 
dormancy. They havent been able to explain why this is their policy  only that its 
commonly used across a variety of banks and has been in place for years. Ive thought 
carefully about this point, and I do think it put Ms C in an unfavourable position. Ms C hadnt 
used her account since July 2018, and TSB said they made the decision to make it dormant 
after 12 months of inactivity. While the account remained open, Im satisfied Ms C couldnt 
make use of it. When Ms C became aware of the dormancy status in April 2020  around 
nine months later, she was told shed have to wait six months to reapply. 
Ms C has explained that she found herself in need of a credit card due to the pandemic. Her 
health status meant she was clinically vulnerable and therefore advised to stay at home. 
This meant she needed to rely on credit cards to make online payments to cover cash flow 
issues. Ms C has explained to our service that she did successfully open another credit card 
account with another provider  however it held a significantly higher interest rate, and lower 
credit limit than the account she held with TSB. I cant reasonably hold TSB responsible for 
another lenders decision on what rate or credit limit Ms C was entitled to. And I cant 
confidently say she would have successfully opened another credit card with TSB if theyd 
allowed her to reapply straight away. So, I cant fairly ask TSB to pay any financial loss Ms C 
may have incurred.
I dont however, think it was fair of TSB to make Ms C wait six months, from April 2020, to 
reapply for a credit card. I appreciate TSBs comments that the six-month wait policy is 
common practice amongst banks and in normal circumstances, I may agree that it can be 
beneficial to wait for some time before reapplying for credit. But having considered the 
individual circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Ms C had already been without 
use of the account for a period of nine months in April 2020. Therefore, I feel that she would have been reasonably able to reapply for credit as soon as she became aware of the 
dormancy. I cant see any reasonable explanation as to why TSB couldnt have allowed 
Ms C to reapply in April 2020 and therefore think they should recognise the distress this 
decision would have caused her.
Putting things right
 Overall, Im satisfied TSBs actions when classifying Ms Cs credit card account as dormant 
was reasonable. However, I think they could have let her reapply for credit in April 2020 
based on the time passed since the dormancy status and the difficult circumstances Ms C 
found herself in. Due to the distress and inconvenience TSBs decision would have had on 
Ms C, I think a compensation of £100 is appropriate.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc. To put things right, 
TSB Bank plc should pay Ms C £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman