DRN-1617952
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the financial offer British Gas Services Limited (BG) made 
after its engineer broke their fireplace.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had HomeCare One - boiler and controls cover including annual service with 
BG. The policy is in joint names but, for ease, I will refer only to Mr B throughout my 
decision.
BG broke the glass front of Mr Bs fireplace during an annual service of the back boiler (a 
boiler situated in the recess behind a fireplace). BG accepted responsibility for causing the 
damage but it wasnt able to offer a repair because the back boiler was obsolete and parts 
were no longer available. It offered £600 discount off a new boiler installation or in cash as 
compensation. Mr B rejected its offer. As a resolution to his complaint, Mr B would like BG to 
replace the heating system and fireplace free of charge. 
BG said the boiler was 29 years old and it wasnt reasonable to cover the cost of a new 
heating system which already needed replacing. It explained that the terms and conditions of 
the policy only required BG to replace a boiler if it couldnt fix it and it was under 10 years 
old. BG said it had been telling Mr B for several years that the boiler needed replacing due to 
its age. Mr B complained that until BG broke the fireplace, he had a working boiler and 
wouldnt have needed to pay for a new one.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed that the terms and conditions 
limited BGs obligation to replacement of a boiler if it was less than 10 years old. While she 
recognised that it referred to faulty boilers, she thought it was reasonable to apply the same 
condition to a damaged boiler which was already old. Our investigator also thought that it 
wasnt fair to ask BG to replace a 29 year-old heating system and fireplace with a new one 
free of charge.
Mr B didnt agree. He said hed never been told that his boiler needed replacing and it was 
four years younger than BG claimed.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr B will be very disappointed but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Theres no dispute that BG broke the fireplace or that the boiler was old and is now obsolete. 
So Mr B now needs a new fireplace and boiler. For clarity, he wasnt able to use the fireplace after the damage but he did have heating and hot water. BG apologised for breaking the 
fireplace and offered Mr B £600 discount off a new boiler installation, or cash so he could 
use an alternative company. He rejected its offer and asked BG to replace the full system 
free of charge. 
My role here is to decide whether BGs offer was fair in the circumstances and I think it was. 
Mr B is understandably frustrated that he now needs to pay for a new boiler. But I dont think 
its fair to expect BG to pay for a complete new system to replace an old, obsolete one. If the 
boiler wasnt obsolete, BG wouldve repaired the damage it caused. So the age of the boiler 
directly contributes to its inability to put Mr B back in the position he was in before.
BG says it told Mr B on several occasions over the years that his boiler needed replacing. 
He says he was never told. I havent seen any evidence to confirm that BG told him this, 
although Im aware it usually includes the advice on policy renewal letters. But I think its 
irrelevant. BG accidentally broke the fireplace and whether or not Mr B knew his boiler was 
old and needed replacing doesnt change what happened. If he had known, and decided to 
replace the boiler, Mr B wouldve had to pay for the new system anyway. 
This is an unfortunate situation for Mr B but I dont think its fair to ask BG to pay for the 
installation of a new boiler and fireplace. BG confirmed that its offer of £600, either as cash 
or a discount off a new boiler installation is still available. I think its a fair offer under the 
circumstances and in line with what I wouldve asked it to do. I dont think BG needs to do 
any more to resolve the complaint. If Mr B wishes to accept its offer he will need to contact 
BG directly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23July2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman