DRN-3125100
The complaint
F complains about the decision of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to decline its 
business interruption insurance claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
F held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA). The policy provided a number of areas of cover, including for business 
interruption. After F had to close its premises in March 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic, it claimed on its policy.
RSA declined the claim. A number of letters were exchanged between RSA and Fs 
representative (along with some other parties not directly involved in this complaint). The 
focus of the discussions was largely on whether the Disease extension to the business 
interruption section of Fs policy provided cover in the circumstances of Fs claim. But 
ultimately, RSA said that it did not, primarily because F had not shown that a case of 
COVID-19 had manifested on Fs premises prior to Fs closure. 
F was unhappy with this outcome and referred a complaint about it to this service. However, 
our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He acknowledged that whilst a number of Fs 
customers had provided evidence that they had suffered from COVID-19, the evidence 
provided was that this had manifested after they had been at Fs premises. And so, he didnt 
feel this met the requirement of the policy term. 
As F remained unsatisfied, its complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on F, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why
The focus of Fs argument has been on subclause A of the Disease extension and this is 
also what our Investigators opinion letter focussed on. So, I too have focussed this decision 
on this subclause. However, I have considered the whole of Fs policy and the business 
interruption section includes a number of other areas of cover. Fs representative has, on 
other complaints, been made aware of this services approach to these other areas of cover. 
But for the sake of completeness, I will briefly address them in this decision.
I understand that F closed its business in March 2020 just prior to the government-imposed 
restrictions, though the nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to 
stay open after this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business 
interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy F took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Fs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured, which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Fs business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage provide cover in the circumstances of Fs claim. And I think RSA 
acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Fs claim under these areas of cover.
There is an extension to the business interruption section of the policy that is not reliant on 
damage having caused the losses being claimed for. This is the Disease, Murder, Suicide, 
Vermin and Pests extension (the Disease extension). This provides cover for, in part, losses 
as a result of:
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises 

C) closing of the whole or part of the Premises by order of the Public Authority for the 
area in which the Premises are situate as a result of defects in the drains and other 
sanitary arrangements at the Premises

The main focus of the claim and complaint has been on subclause A and I will address this 
first.
In order for Fs claim to be covered by subclause A of the Disease extension, a notifiable 
disease must have manifested on Fs premises and this must have led to restrictions being 
placed on the premises. COVID-19 is a notifiable disease, and was at the time F closed. 
However, the key question in this complaint is whether COVID-19 had manifested itself at 
the premises by this point. 
F has said that several staff members self-isolated due to having symptoms. But it hasnt 
provided any evidence that these employees had symptoms whilst at the premises. F has 
also provided testimony, and supporting medical evidence, from a number of customers who 
developed symptoms of COVID-19. However, these customers all seem to have developed 
symptoms after the date they were at the premises. 
I consider that the term manifesting as it is used in Fs policy refers to the person suffering 
the disease displaying symptoms. It is not enough, in the circumstances of this complaint, for 
a pre-symptomatic individual to have sustained the disease and been on the premises. 
This can be contrasted with other policies that require only that a disease has occurred. A 
disease may have occurred in a person prior to it manifesting. But Fs policy requires the 
disease to manifest.
As Fs policy requires that COVID-19 has manifested at the premises, the evidence needed 
for a claim to be met must show that an individual had symptoms of COVID-19 whilst at the premises. And the evidence provided is that symptoms only arose after the time the relevant 
individuals had been at the premises. So, I dont consider the requirements of subclause A 
of the Disease extension to have been met. And it follows that I dont consider RSA acted 
unfairly or unreasonably when declining Fs claim under this subclause. 
Fs representative has said that subclause C should also provide cover for the 
circumstances of Fs claim, as it considers Fs premises were forced to close as a result of 
proper sanitary conditions being unable to be maintained. However, I am not persuaded that 
a reasonable person, with the background knowledge of Fs directors at the time the policy 
was entered in November 2019, would have interpreted subclause C to refer to an inability 
to enforce social distancing at Fs premises. And it isnt clear what defect(s) at Fs premises 
its representative considers there to have been. I do not consider the normal operation of a 
business can be called a defect and certainly this is not a defect specific to Fs premises. So, 
I do not consider RSA were incorrect in not meeting Fs claim under subclause C of the 
Disease extension. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means RSA should have met Fs claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for F and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman