DRN-4348978
The complaint
Mrs K is complaining that AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined a claim she made on her 
commercial property insurance policy for damage to an outside pool house.
Mrs K has been represented by a third party in the handling of this complaint. But, for ease 
of reference, I shall refer to anything the representative has said on Mrs Ks behalf as being 
said by Mrs K.
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs K contacted AXA to say her outdoor pool house had been severely 
damaged in a storm and she wanted to claim for the damage on her commercial property 
insurance policy. AXA asked Mrs K to obtain quotes to carry out a temporary repair, but 
Mrs K later contacted AXA to say she was struggling to get anyone to provide an estimate. 
AXA reviewed the photos of the pool house that Mrs K provided and it had concerns over the 
claim as it thought the damage might be down to wear and tear. So it appointed a loss 
adjustor to investigate the claim.
The loss adjustor attended the property in July 2020 and confirmed there was substantial 
damage to the pool house. However, he thought the damage was down to wear and tear. So 
AXA declined Mrs Ks claim. Mrs K didnt agree with AXAs claim decision so she arranged 
for a building surveyor to inspect the property twice, who concluded that the primary cause 
of the damage was the storm. 
Following this, AXA appointed a forensic investigator who also inspected the property twice 
 in June 2021 and again in December 2021. The investigator concluded that the pool house 
was in a poor state of repair before the storm and hadnt been competently designed or 
installed. He concluded that it was this this that was the primary cause of the damage  i.e. 
he said that he didnt think the building would have collapsed in the way it had if the building 
hadnt been in such a poor state of repair before the storm.
Mrs K didnt agree and highlighted that this report was based on an inspection that was 
carried out around 16 months after the damage occurred. So she didnt think much weight 
could be placed on this. She maintained that the property was fully maintained beforehand 
and the damage occurred because of the storm. She also highlighted a number of reasons 
why she disagreed with the investigators conclusions. AXA referred Mrs Ks response to the 
investigator who stood by his conclusions. He acknowledged that hed inspected the 
property around 16 months after the storm. But he said the building had failed due to the fact 
that the wooden supports were external and would have been exposed since the structure 
was first built in around 1980. 
In particular the investigator concluded:
For a structure to fail (as the pool house has, in this case by racking) the loads applied to 
that structure must be greater than the strength of the structure to withstand them. Thus, 
when considering a structural failure, it is important to look at both factors to assess whether 
the loads were unusually high, the strength was unusually low or a combination of the two.
In my view, wind forces were present but not unusually high. The structure was unusually 
weak. Therefore, the weakness of the structure was the main cause of the failure, not the 
strength of the wind in the storm.
So AXA remained of the opinion that its initial conclusion was fair. Mrs K still disagreed with 
the decision so referred her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said he was persuaded by the forensic 
investigators opinion. He acknowledged that this report was based on an inspection carried 
out a long time after the storm. But he thought the investigators conclusion was supported 
by the photos Mrs K took shortly after the damage occurred, which he thought showed the 
pool house to be in a poor condition. So he didnt think AXAs decision was unfair.
Mrs K didnt agree with the investigator and, in summary, raised the following points:
She said AXA pre-empted the loss adjustors visit by setting out its own opinion on the 
likely cause of the damage. She also didnt think the loss adjustor could have come to a 
fair conclusion based on just one visit to the property. She said, good loss adjusting 
practice should do no more than voice a possibility and recommend a specialist 
investigation. She thought it was unsafe for the loss adjustor to express a firm opinion in 
the circumstances of this claim and to do so exhibited poor skills in the basics of major 
claim management.
She highlighted that her surveyors report hadnt highlighted any concerns with the 
structural integrity of the supporting timbers and thought they were in good condition. 
She said they the surveyor concluded that there was no sign of any historic rot or 
deterioration that would lead to gradual movement.
She said that the forensic investigator didnt definitively say that inherent structural 
weakness was the prime cause of the failure. She said all he said is that the design and 
weakness possibly caused the structure to be vulnerable to the storms such as 
experienced.
She said it was for AXA to demonstrate that the damage was as a result of gradual 
deterioration and she didnt think it had done so. 
As Mrs K didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Mrs Ks complaint in a lot less detail 
than she has presented it. Mrs K has raised a number of reasons about why shes unhappy 
with the way AXA has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every point 
shes raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to think 
about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service. I assure Mrs K, however, that I have read and considered everything she and 
her representative have provided.
The terms of the insurance policy cover Mrs K for loss or damage arising from a storm.  But, 
they also set out that AXA wont cover loss or damage that happens gradually  i.e. where 
its primarily caused by wear and tear. AXA believes the damage occurred because it thinks 
the pool house was in a poor state of repair immediately before the storm and it thinks this is 
the primary cause of the damage.In thinking about this, Ive asked myself three questions:
1. Were there storm conditions as defined under the terms of the insurance policy?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
All parties agree that there were storm conditions at the time and that the damage claimed 
for is consistent with damage a storm typically causes, so I wont comment on this further. 
The issue is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage.
Both parties have provided a lot of evidence in support of their respective positions. But in 
particular theyve both provided expert reports that come to different conclusions. Ive 
particularly focussed on the reports by the surveyor Mrs K instructed and the forensic 
investigator AXA instructed as I consider them to be the most qualified to make a fair and 
sufficiently persuasive assessment of whats most likely to have happened. In deciding this 
complaint I need to think about which report I find the most persuasive as theyve both come 
to different conclusions. 
Im conscious the various reports they have both compiled present a lot of commentary and 
findings. I also assure all parties I have thought and reflected on what theyve said, but for 
the same reasons Ive set out above, Ive not commented on everything theyve said. But 
Ive focussed on what I consider to be the core and most critical findings.
I recognise Mrs Ks concerns that the forensic investigators report is based upon an 
inspection around 16 months after the storm. But Im persuaded that he was able to carry 
out a sufficiently suitable inspection of the condition of the property to make an informed 
choice. I find myself agreeing with the investigator that its hard to see how a building could 
fail to such the extent it did without there being an inherent weakness beforehand. He says 
he would have expected an adequately designed and built permanent structure (such as a 
pool house) that had been maintained (i.e. that was in a good state of repair) to have been 
able to withstand such a storm. And I think this is an entirely fair comment to make and I 
think goes to the crux of this matter  i.e. how could the pool house that would generally be 
designed to withstand adverse weather conditions  and has done so over the preceding 30 
years  have failed to the extent it has.
The photographs Mrs K provided immediately after the storm showed that the pool house 
was in a poor state of repair at the time. The photographs AXA has provided, that were 
taken a couple of months after the storm, show that there was a lot of vegetation growing 
throughout the pool house and highlight the pool house to be in a poor condition.
I have considered Mrs Ks comment that the forensic investigator wasnt able to complete a 
thorough and accurate investigation due to the fact that the structure had been subject to 
substantial vegetation growth, water ingress and a lack of maintenance over two years, 
which she says will have accelerated the decay of the structure. And I agree that, ideally, 
AXA would have obtained such a report closer to the date of loss. But, as I said, Im satisfied 
the forensic investigator was able to complete a fair inspection of the property and his report 
is supported by contemporaneous photographs from the date of loss and months 
immediately following the storm. He has also been able to take photographs of the support 
structure, so Im satisfied he was able to suitably inspect the pool house.
I note Mrs Ks surveyor has said that the structure stood for decades after construction 
without report of any structural movement until the storm and has stood the test of time. And 
I, of course, have taken this into consideration. But this doesnt mean that the structure 
hasnt deteriorated over this time. And I note that the surveyor hasnt made any reference to the photographic evidence of the condition of the structure immediately preceding the storm.
I note the forensic investigator said the exposed moment connections could probably have 
been maintained to prolong their service life. This would have involved a regular schedule of 
inspection and application of surface preservatives (such as paint or varnish), and possibly 
periodic renewal or strengthening of the material around the connection. My understanding 
is that no such regular maintenance was undertaken. And I understand Mrs K has 
confirmed the maintenance that was carried out was to the vegetation.
Ive found the detailed explanation by the forensic investigator as to how the support 
structure will have failed over a prolonged period of time, if not adequately, maintained to be 
particularly persuasive. And it seems to me that this has contributed to the deterioration of 
the pool houses support structure.
Ultimately, I cannot ignore that the photographs Mrs K provided show the pool house was in 
a poor condition at the time of the storm. Mrs K is right that its for AXA to demonstrate the 
primary cause of the pool houses structural failure is gradual deterioration or wear and tear. 
But the test is whether it has shown its most likely that the primary cause was to an inherent 
fault or deterioration of the buildings structure and Ive found the analysis of the forensic 
investigator appointed by AXA to be the most persuasive and likely cause of the damage. 
Im sufficiently satisfied that AXA has provided enough to demonstrate the primary cause of 
the damage Mrs K is claiming for is a gradual deterioration of the buildings structure. And it 
seems to me that the storm has simply highlighted the inherent issues that were present at 
the time.
As I said, I do think AXA should have considered arranging an expert assessment sooner. 
And I think it could have been more pro-active in its handling of the claim. But I recognise 
that some of this was down to the impact of Covid-19 and Im also not persuaded Mrs K has 
lost out as a result of this. Ultimately, while I naturally sympathise with the situation Mrs K 
has found herself in, for the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that it was fair for AXA to not 
cover the claim Mrs K made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman