DRN-2729135
The complaint
Mr K complains that Capital One (Europe) plc decided to close his account and register a 
marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr K applied for an account with Capital One and was told he was successful and started 
using the account. But then Capital One told him that it wouldnt continue to provide the 
account. And he found out that it had registered the marker and he says this means he isnt 
able to open a personal account elsewhere or apply for a mortgage.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the bar for 
recording a marker at CIFAS was a high one. Capital One had found inconsistencies in the 
information Mr K had provided with his application. And it carried out further checks even 
though the account was already open. He didnt think it had acted unfairly in applying the 
marker based on the evidence it had.
Mr K didnt agree and said that the outcome was biased, and that the opinion should be 
supported with proof.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Capital One 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
It has provided details to this service of its review of Mr Ks application and the basis for its 
concerns. I can see from contact it had with Mr K that it had asked him to confirm he was the 
applicant and the details. Im satisfied that it made its decision then to close his account 
based on the checks and evidence it had and reviewed this when he complained. The nature 
of that information about fraud isnt something Id expect to be disclosed to him.
Ive looked at whether Capital One was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it 
had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must have 
carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Capital One needs to have enough information to make a formal 
report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable 
grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed what Mr K has told this service and the evidence Capital One has provided, 
Im satisfied that Capital One had sufficient grounds to decide to record the CIFAS marker. 
I appreciate that this outcome will be unwelcome for Mr K but Im afraid that I dont have a 
reasonable basis to require Capital One to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman