DRN-4185429
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Os complaint is about their mortgage account with Lloyds Bank PLC. Mr O, who 
has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that he was unhappy with the amount of 
questions Lloyds asked when he applied for a product switch in August 2022. Mr O also 
says that he was told by Lloyds he could fix the mortgage at a monthly payment of £570, but 
the bank has now declined to do this.
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs O want Lloyds to fix their mortgage payments at £573.49, 
backdate this to August 2022 and refund the excess paid by Mr and Mrs O on Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR).
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs O being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs O have an interest-only mortgage with Lloyds, which has been on SVR 
since 2011. In August 2022, when the mortgage had just over two years left to run, Mr O 
spoke to Lloyds to try to arrange a new fixed-rate product. This required a mortgage review 
so that Lloyds could recommend the most suitable product. However, Mr O wasnt happy 
about the questions Lloyds was asking, particularly in relation to the repayment vehicle for 
the mortgage.
As a result, no new interest rate product has been put in place, and Mr and Mrs Os 
mortgage repayments have increased. Mr O says that hed discussed a rate that would have 
given him payments of about £570 a month, and he wants Lloyds to put this in place. 
However, Lloyds wasnt able to find a call where an interest rate that would generate 
payments of that amount was discussed.
Mr and Mrs O complained but Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said it was 
entitled to carry out a mortgage review before recommending a new interest rate product. 
Lloyds also said that, given the length of time left to run on the mortgage, its questions about 
the repayment vehicle were justified. Lloyds said that Mr and Mrs O could apply for a new 
rate, subject to a mortgage review. Alternatively, Mr and Mrs O were free to speak to an 
independent financial adviser, if they didnt think Lloyds could offer them what they wanted.
Mr and Mrs O complained to our service. An investigator looked at what had happened but 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied Lloyds was entitled to request 
information about the mortgage and the repayment strategy for the capital balance. He also 
wasnt persuaded Lloyds had ever offered a product at a payment of £570 per month.
Mr and Mrs O asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr O maintains that Lloyds 
has acted unfairly. He said that although he could have applied for a rate online, he didnt 
because this is optional. Mr O said that for his second property, the lender (not Lloyds) fixed 
a new rate for him in minutes. 
Mr O said that the crux of his complaint is his dissatisfaction about the bank requesting 
information about the repayment vehicle, which Mr O felt was unnecessary, given that 
Lloyds already had the information in its records.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted the questions which Mr O would like 
answered, its not my role to put those questions to Lloyds or act as a representative or go-
between on this case.
Mr and Mrs O took out the mortgage some years ago, and so any changes they want to 
make to the mortgage fall within transitional arrangements put in place by the regulator. The 
transitional arrangements are the rules introduced in 2014 by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) as part of the Mortgage Market Review (MMR). MMR tightened up the 
rules on checking affordability. However, as highlighted by the FCA, the purpose of the 
transitional arrangements is to allow flexibility so that exceptions can be made to the 
affordability rules for existing borrowers as long as there is no additional borrowing and the 
proposed transaction is in their best interests.
This involves a degree of discretion on the part of the lender. The rule doesnt say that it
must not apply the new requirements  it says that it need not do so. In this case, Mr and 
Mrs O wanted to vary the interest rate on their mortgage  which is a change to the 
mortgage. Their previous interest rate product had ended in 2011, after which the mortgage 
had been on SVR. 
Mr and Mrs O could have applied for a new product online, in which case it would have been 
up to them to select the product which they thought best suited their needs. However, by 
contacting the bank to discuss this, Lloyds was then required to make a recommendation, 
which it could only do after gathering information about Mr and Mrs Os circumstances.
Given that the mortgage had only about two years left to run when Mr O spoke to Lloyds in 
August 2022, and that theyd not had a new interest rate product in place since 2011, I think 
it was reasonable for the bank to carry out a mortgage review in order to recommend the 
most suitable product. I also think it was also reasonable for Lloyds to ask about the 
repayment vehicle for the mortgage. 
Mr O says that Lloyds already had that information in its records. However, things might 
have changed since the mortgage was originally taken out. I therefore dont think the bank 
acted unfairly in asking for this information. 
Mr O spent a lot of time on the telephone with the bank, which I acknowledge he found 
frustrating. Mr O says that he was offered a rate which would have given him monthly payments of about £570. However, Ive listened to all the phone calls and Ive not found any 
call where this was discussed, nor any product switch offer for repayments of that amount. 
As I said above, Mr and Mrs O could, if theyd wanted to, have gone online to choose a new 
rate. But by asking Lloyds to advise them about a new rate, it was necessary for the bank to 
carry out a mortgage review. I know Mr O considers this to have been unnecessary and 
intrusive, but Im not persuaded that it was. Because Mr O didnt want to complete the 
mortgage review, a new interest rate product hasnt yet been put in place. Overall, on the 
basis of the evidence, Im not persuaded Lloyds is to blame for this.
I appreciate interest rates have increased since August 2022 and that this has impacted on 
Mr and Mrs Os mortgage repayments. Since the complaint was raised with us the 
Government has announced the introduction of the Mortgage Charter. The Charter includes 
various provisions which will help consumers worried about how theyre going to pay their 
mortgage both at present and in the future. Further information about the Charter, and about 
the help Lloyds might be able to offer, can be found here:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/mortgage-charter/mortgage-charter.
In addition, as Lloyds has already said, Mr and Mrs O can, if they wish, complete a mortgage 
review with the bank. Because their mortgage only has about a year left to run on it, they 
wont be able to choose a new product online. Alternatively, Mr and Mrs O are free to speak 
to an independent financial adviser about other mortgage options that they might find more 
suitable to their needs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman