DRN-3043140
The complaint
Mr S complains that the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portafina) 
to transfer deferred benefits from his company pension scheme  the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (BSPS) - to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) was unsuitable. The funds 
within the SIPP were then invested in several unregulated collective investment schemes 
(UCIS).
Mr S is represented in this matter by a third party but for ease Ill refer to all representations
as being made by Mr S. 
What happened
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint in July 2021. A copy of my provisional 
decision is attached for reference and forms part of this final decision. 
In summary I said that I was minded to conclude that the complaint should be upheld. I said 
because although Portafina had treated Mr S as an insistent client, I didnt think it had given 
him a balanced assessment of his options. Nor did I think that Mr S had fully understood the 
risks and long-term implications involved in transferring his deferred pension benefits and 
investing as he did. As that was the case, I didnt think he was in a position to make an 
informed decision about whether insisting on going ahead with the transfer was a suitable 
course of action. And in terms of responsibility for Mr Ss losses, I said that I thought 
apportioning responsibility to Portafina for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation 
in this case.
Mr S responded to my provisional findings and has confirmed that he has nothing further to 
add. 
Portafina hasnt provided any further comments or submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received any further comments or submissions from either party, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings. I am therefore upholding this complaint for the 
reasons explained in my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible into 
the position he would now be in but for Portafinas failings.
Unfortunately its not possible for Mr S to transfer his benefits back into the occupational 
scheme. This is because in 2016 Tata Steel UK announced it was looking at options for 
restructuring the business, which meant it was no longer able to support the BSPS in its 
current format. So members that remained in the scheme had the option to either enter 
the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or join the new BSPS II, which was a Tata backed 
scheme.
I believe the most likely outcome if the transfer had not gone ahead wouldve been for Mr S 
to remain within the scheme until 2016 and then elect to join BSPS II when this option 
became available. This is because BSPS II retained a lot of the same benefits the original 
scheme had. Unlike the PPF, BSPS II doesnt cut starting entitlements for deferred 
members and the scheme spouses pension is set at 50% of the members pension at the 
date of death. Comparatively the PPF would cut starting entitlements by 10% or more for 
anyone below the age of 65 and its spouses pension deducts any lump sum taken at 
retirement before calculating the 50% due. 
So taking this into consideration my final decision is that Portafina should undertake a 
redress calculation in line with the finalised pension review methodology set by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It should consider what the pension value wouldve 
been had Mr S remained with the BPSP scheme until 2016, and then entered the BPSP II.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of this final decision, and using the 
most recent financial assumptions published (as at the date of this decision). In accordance 
with the regulator's expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr S's acceptance of the decision.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain
Mr S's contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a 'SERPS adjustment' in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on 
Mr S's SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr S's pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldn't be paid in to the plan if it would conflict 
with any existing protection or allowance. 
If the future loss payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
For example, if Mr B would have been yet to take a tax-free cash sum from the 
occupational scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been 
taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The treatment of assets  if illiquid - held within the SIPP
My understanding is that at least some of the investments in the SIPP are illiquid. And the 
SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investments held within it. I think it would be best if 
the investments could be removed from the SIPP. Mr S would then be able to close the 
SIPP, if he wishes. That would then allow him to stop paying the fees for the SIPP. But the 
valuation of the relevant investments may prove difficult if there is no market for them.Therefore, for the sake of valuing the investments, Portafina should agree an amount with 
the SIPP provider as a commercial value. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs 
and take ownership of the investments. If the business is unable, or if there are any 
difficulties, in buying Mr Ss illiquid investments, it should give the holding a nil value for the
purposes of calculating compensation.
In this instance the business may ask Mr S to provide an undertaking to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the relevant holdings. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr S may 
receive from the investments and any eventual sums he would be able to access the
SIPP. Portafina would need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Furthermore, had Portafina acted in Mr Ss best interests, he wouldnt have established his 
SIPP. Its therefore unfair hes continuing to pay his annual SIPP fees if the SIPP cant be 
closed. Ideally the business would take over the illiquid holding to allow the SIPP to be 
closed. This is the fairest way of putting Mr S back in the position he would have been in. 
However, third parties are involved and we do not have the power to tell them what to do.
Therefore, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that the business pays Mr S an 
upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the most 
recent years fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for 
the SIPP to be closed. There are a number of ways they may want to seek to achieve that. 
It will also provide Mr S with some confidence that he wont be financially disadvantaged 
because of further fees.
Where we consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, this service may recommend that the business pays the balance. If the 
amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceed 150,000, I also 
recommend that Portafina pays Mr S the balance.
This recommendation isnt part of my final determination or award. It wouldnt bind Portafina. 
Its unlikely that Mr S could accept an award and go to court to ask for the balance of the 
compensation owing to him. And so Mr S may want to consider getting independent advice.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment should where possible be paid to 
Mr S within 90 days of the date Portafina receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in
excess of 90 days, that it takes Portafina to pay Mr S this compensation.
It's possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest won't apply.My final decision
For the reasons explained in my attached provisional findings, Im upholding this complaint 
and I direct Portal Financial Services LLP to pay redress as set out above. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision 
before 12 October 2021.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman