DRN-4128765
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain U K Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill) unfairly declined their 
home insurance claim.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs F took out a UKI home insurance policy. It started that day. Nearly 
two years later, in March 2022, they made a claim for flood damage to the property. Ill refer 
to the property as Property A. Mr and Mrs F said the damage had been caused by flooding 
that happened in mid-August 2020. UKI declined the claim. It said as Mr and Mrs Fs policy 
had, in September 2020, been retrospectively cancelled from the date it had been taken out 
(July 2020). So it said there wasnt any insurance in place for the property at the time 
Mr and Mrs F say the flood happened.   
Mr and Mrs F complained about that decision. In response UKI maintained its position that 
there was no cover to consider a claim against. It indicated Mr and Mrs F had, when taking 
out the policy in July 2020, incorrectly said the property was their permanent residence. It 
said in fact they werent living there due to ongoing issues of damp that pre-dated the 
policys inception. Mr and Mrs F werent satisfied, so came to this service.
In January 2023 our investigator considered the complaint. He said it was reasonable for 
UKI to decline the claim as there was no cover in place. He recommended it reimburse 
Mr and Mrs F premiums for the policy. He also felt UKI should pay £100 compensation to 
recognise a loss of expectation. UKI accepted the assessment. But as Mr and Mrs F didnt, 
the complaint was passed to me. 
In June 2023 I issued a provisional decision. As its reasoning forms part of this final decision 
Ive copied it in below. In it I explained why I intended to require UKI to consider 
Mr and Mrs Fs claim against the terms of their policy  and to pay them £500 compensation. 
I also invited both parties to provide anything further they would like me to consider before 
issuing a final decision. Ive addressed UKI and Mr and Mrs Fs responses below. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to find 
there was cover in place at the reported time of loss  mid August 2020. 
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs F and UKI provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to 
be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything
provided.
UKIs claim repudiation letter, of 7 June 2022, explains there was no cover in place 
for the claim  as the policy had been cancelled back to the date it had been taken 
out. Its final response letter implies the policy was avoided due to Mr and Mrs F 
misrepresenting the occupancy and condition of the property when taking it out. 
So the key issue for me, when considering if UKI fairly declined the claim is  is it fair 
and reasonable for UKI to say there was no cover in place for the relevant property at 
the time of the reported loss? 
Ill outline what I consider the key facts and timeline. On 29 July 2020 Mr and Mrs F 
took out a new UKI home insurance policy over the phone. It was for their home at 
the time  Property A. This is the property the claim is for. At that point it was, and 
was intended to be for the foreseeable future, their main and permanent residence. 
The cover started on the same day. 
Mr and Mrs F report heavy rainfall on 16 and 17 August 2020 at Property A. They 
have reported a resulting flood as the cause of damage. They say it began to smell 
mouldy. They say over the next few days it worsened. They report it being difficult to 
breath. They were concerned for the health of their already unwell son. So on 21 
August 2020 they moved to a property they already owned  Property B. They say 
this was without a tenant due to the Covid pandemic.   
On the same day Mr and Mrs F called UKI. In the call they explain they are moving 
out of Property A. They said it requires work. They arranged cover for Property B as 
their main home. Property As insurance needs were discussed as it being a kind of 
second home. Mrs F says they can be at the property on occasional days so it isnt 
unoccupied. UKI seem happy with this and says cover for Property A will continue.
On 9 September 2020 Mr and Mrs F receive documentation from UKI. This was the 
amendment to cover for Property A along with policy details for the new cover for 
Property B. Mrs F calls UKI to say the details given on the policy documents for 
Property As policy are incorrect. She says its down as permanently occupied by 
family. She explains she had said they will be there now and again  not permanently 
occupying it. She asks if UKI offer unoccupied cover. She explains the reason for it 
being uninhabitable due to damp and mould. 
In response UKI says it cant insure the property if its unoccupied. The adviser then 
says she has cancelled the policy back to 21 August 2020 (the date of the policy 
amendments  not the date of inception of 29 July 2020). 
There then follows some administrative errors and resulting confusion  with UKI 
cancelling the cover for Property B instead. However I dont feel its necessary to go 
into that here  other than to say it added to the distress and inconvenience 
experienced by Mr and Mrs F. 
Considering the above timeline it seems there was cover in place for in place for 
Property A at the reported date of loss - mid-August 2020. I can see two possible 
ways for UKI to have removed the cover  but neither is satisfactory.  
The first possibility is that UKI cancelled the policy due to a mid-term change in 
circumstances  for example because Mr and Mrs F moved out of Property A on 21 
August 2020. The change here would be occupation status and/or condition of the 
property as reported by Mr and Mrs F in the 21 August 2020 call. In this possibility 
any amendment to the policy (including cancellation) would have happened from 21 
August as UKIs operator declared in the call. This would mean the policy would have 
been in place at the time of the reported date of loss  mid-August 2020.The second possibility is that UKI backdated the cancellation to the date of inception 
 so from 29 July 2020. This would be an avoidance of the policy  so treating it as 
though it never existed. UKIs case notes say the issue isnt misrepresentation. But 
if it wishes to avoid a policy (because it wouldnt have offered cover had it known the 
property was unoccupied or suffering mould etc) then it is citing misrepresentation at 
the policy inception. So the relevant legislation comes into play  The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).    
For UKI to have any recourse under CIDRA, including avoiding the policy, several 
conditions need to be met. First there needs to have been a failure, by Mr and Mrs F 
to have taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.   
I havent explored the questions and answers involved when the policy was taken out 
in July 2020. It seems unnecessary - but I can consider them if either party feels it 
might make a difference. 
UKIs avoidance (or backdated cancellation) would be on the premise Mr and Mrs F 
misrepresented the occupancy status of Property A when taking out the policy on 29 
July 2020. As far as Im aware they said it was their main or permanent residence. I 
havent seen anything to make me think, on 29 July 2020, they intended the property 
to be anything other than that. For example theres nothing to indicate that at that 
point they had plans to move to Property B in August 2020. So I cant see there was 
a misrepresentation here.    
   
Alternatively UKI would need to show Mr and Mrs F failed to take reasonable care 
not to misrepresent the condition of the property  for example they said it was in a 
good condition when they were aware, or had reason to suspect, it wasnt. But so far 
UKI hasnt provided anything to show this. That means based on what Ive seen so 
far UKI cant fairly rely on CIDRA to say there was no cover in place at the reported 
date of loss  mid-August 2020.
So there was cover in place for Property A around the time of reported loss  mid-
August 2020. So UKIs cited reason for rejecting the claim, as there was no cover at 
that point, is unfair and unreasonable. As a result I intend to require it consider the 
claim in line with the terms of the policy. 
Id like to be clear that Im not requiring UKI to settle the claim  instead it will need to 
accept there was cover in place and consider against the terms of the policy. UKIs 
case notes discuss other reasons for declining the claim. I havent considered the 
fairness of those. It wouldnt be appropriate for me to do so in this complaint. UKI 
hasnt fully considered or presented those reasons  and Mr and Mrs F havent had 
an opportunity to respond. 
I do however intend to require UKI to pay Mr and Mrs F £500 compensation to 
recognise the unnecessary distress and inconvenience its caused them. Im not 
awarding this because UKI refused the claim. At this point the final outcome of that 
isnt known. 
Instead its because UKI, with a little consideration, could and should have worked 
out there was cover in place. By failing to do so its caused Mr and Mrs F a great deal 
of unnecessary distress and frustration over several months. This is clear from their 
correspondence. They appear to have reached the point where they feel UKIs 
conspired against them (including by withholding and editing evidence). Im not 
persuaded of that. Its errors seem more likely to be genuine and honest  mixed with a failure to make the effort to properly consider the circumstances. But I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs F are so frustrated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F accepted my provisional decision  but provided a few comments. First they 
pointed out a couple of errors I had made with dates. When first referring to the dates 21 
August 2020 and 9 September 2020 I incorrectly stated 2022 rather than 2020. Ive 
corrected these in the provisional decision text included above. 
Mr and Mrs F also asked for some clarification on a couple of points in my provisional 
decision  including the difference between settling the claim and considering it in line with 
the terms of the policy. Ive responded to these enquiries already. I dont feel it will 
necessary or helpful to repeat the explanations here.
UKI didnt accept my provisional decision. It said Mr and Mrs F were told the policy would be 
cancelled from inception and there would be no cover  and they accepted that. It didnt give 
a date for this. But I assume its referring to the telephone call on 9 September 2020. 
Unfortunately UKIs again failed to engage with this complaint properly. I set out in my 
provisional decision that Mr and Mrs F werent told, in the call, the policy would be cancelled 
back to inception. The date given was 21 August. That was the date UKI had been notified of 
the relevant mid-term change in their circumstances. The inception date of 29 July 2020 
wasnt mentioned in the call. So even if they did agree to a cancellation, it would only have 
been to 21 August 2020.
In any event, as Ive explained, if UKI did wish to backdate a cancellation to the inception it 
would be avoiding the policy. So it would be required to rely on CIDRA. As I set out in my 
provisional decision UKI had so far failed to show it could fairly do so. Unfortunately UKI 
didnt engage with this point. So it still hasnt provided anything to show it could fairly avoid 
the cover (in other words - backdate the cancellation to its date of inception).  
Finally UKI said Im penalising it for the administrative error of cancelling the wrong policy. 
That really isnt the situation. In my provisional decision I place very little weight on that 
mistake. That mistake is irrelevant to the main consideration - whether there was cover in 
place at the time of the reported loss (mid-August 2020).
I considered the two possibilities for that. Firstly that there was a mid-term change in 
Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances. That might allow UKI to cancel the cover from the date of that 
change. That date was 21 August 2020. Thats after the reported date of loss  so cover 
would still have been in place. The fact that UKI went on to cancel the wrong policy doesnt 
make a difference.  
Secondly that UKI had avoided the policy from its inception. It hasnt shown it could rely on 
the relevant legislation, CIDRA, to do that. So it cant fairly claim the policy was avoided. 
That means cover would still be in place at the reported date of loss. 
As a result I still feel there was cover in place for Property A around the time of the reported 
loss  mid-August 2020. So UKIs cited reason for rejecting the claim, as there was no cover 
at that point, is unfair and unreasonable. That means it will need to consider the claim in line 
with the terms of the policy. I also require, for the reasons set out above, UKI to pay 
Mr and Mrs F £500 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require UK Insurance Limited to consider Mr and Mrs Fs 
claim against the terms of their policy  and to pay them £500 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman