DRN-2969935
The complaint
Mr R complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc gave him a quote to insure his car but then later 
tried to charge him more on the basis they had used incorrect details to calculate the 
premium.   
What happened
Mr R called Sainsburys to purchase a new policy for his car. After providing all relevant 
details, Sainsburys gave Mr R a quote which he agreed and paid while on the phone. When 
Mr R received his policy documents, he noticed the car model was incorrectly recorded.     
Mr R called Sainsburys to ask them to correct the details but they told him he would need to 
pay a higher premium. Mr R says he was left with no option but to cancel the policy and 
Sainsburys then refunded his premium in full. Mr R then took out a policy with another 
insurer which was £190.44 more than what he had paid Sainsburys for the policy.     
Mr R complained to Sainsburys as he felt they should honour the contract they had in place 
or they should pay him the additional cost in having to take out a more expensive policy. 
Sainsburys responded and accepted their agent had made an error by entering the car 
model incorrectly. Sainsburys apologised for this. Sainsburys said they wouldnt be offering 
Mr R the difference in cost from the price he paid for the policy with them, compared to the 
price he paid his new insurer. They said, had the information been entered correctly by their 
agent, the price they wouldve quoted wouldve been significantly higher than what he 
originally paid. Sainsburys said they didnt feel Mr R was out of pocket as he received a full 
refund as he cancelled within the cooling off period. Sainsburys did offer £50 compensation 
for recording incorrect details of Mr Rs car.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. She agreed Sainsburys had made an error and 
thought the offer of £50 was reasonable. Mr R disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the investigators recommendation here is a fair way to resolve 
matters. I understand Mr R will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this 
decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr R. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. Sainsburys have admitted they got things wrong when they entered the incorrect 
car model details when working out a premium for Mr R. This provided a premium which was 
less than it wouldve been had the correct details been entered. The only issue I have to 
decide is whether the offer theyve made to put things right is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Sainsburys should compensate Mr R for the trouble and upset caused 
by their poor service. Mr R calls Sainsburys and provides all the information hes asked for 
in order to get a quote to insure his car. Its understandable that Mr R then believes, 
following the call, that the premium hes been quoted, and agreed to and paid, is correct. So, 
I can understand why Mr R was upset when he calls Sainsburys to correct an error they 
have made and is then told he would need to pay more to insure his car. I dont think its 
something Mr R wouldve been expecting and certainly not after the original call where he 
was led to believe the correct car was being insured. Mr R was also then inconvenienced in 
having to find an alternative insurer for a policy. 
     
I can see that, once Sainsburys are told about the issue two days after Mr R has taken out 
the policy, they then provide a revised quote for the correct car model. So, while there has 
been upset and inconvenience to Mr R, this has been over a limited period. Mr R first 
discovers theres a problem when he receives his policy documents. And while Mr R was 
shocked to learn he would have to pay more to insure his car, Sainsburys do explain the 
reason for this. 
I understand Mr R feels Sainsburys should pay him the difference between what he 
originally paid them and what he has had to pay for his new policy. And, he feels they should 
pay him £350 compensation. I agree compensation should be awarded, but I think the £50 
offered is reasonable. Mr R has been quoted an incorrect premium because this has been 
assessed and calculated against incorrect information. And although Sainsburys are 
responsible for that incorrect information being entered, Im not persuaded that means they 
should offer that premium to Mr R for the correct car or that they should be expected to pay 
the difference he has had to pay his new insurer.   
Generally, insurers are allowed to set the premium that they wish to charge for accepting a 
certain risk. When calculating insurance premiums insurers will take a number of factors into 
consideration; for example - the consumers age or occupation. They will also consider 
details about the thing that theyre insuring, such as the model of car. All these factors will 
affect the price of a consumers policy. An insurer will decide what factors to take into 
account and how much weight to put on each of them. 
So, while I do acknowledge Mr R feels there has been a breach of contract here, its not my 
role to make that determination. My role is to determine whether Sainsburys have acted 
reasonably, and if not, what they should do to put things right. I agree with Mr Rs point that 
he is offered a premium based on information he has given, and he has then accepted the 
offer and made payment. Sainsburys have then looked to change the terms of that 
agreement. I accept these points, but I cant ignore the fact that the premium offered was 
based on an incorrect car model and this is a key factor which can influence the price of a 
premium. So, its not unreasonable for Sainsburys to then reassess the premium based on 
the correct car model.  
In summary, I think Sainsburys have made an error here and I think their offer of £50 
compensation is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
Sainsburys Bank Plc have already made an offer to pay £50 compensation to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc should pay £50 to Mr R, if they havent done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Paviter DhaddyOmbudsman