DRN-3514782
The complaint
Mr H complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2018.
CST Wealth Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to CST.
Mr H also has a representative bringing the complaint on his behalf. However, Ill refer any 
comments and views as coming from Mr H himself.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Hs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr H was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to CST 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr H was 49 years old, married and with two dependent children. Mr and Mrs H 
owned their own home with a small mortgage outstanding.
Mr H was described as being in good health and working full-time in the steel 
industry. Mrs H was 48 and had some health conditions. She was retired on medical 
grounds and also received some state benefits.
Mr H earned around £36,000 per year. After expenses he and Mrs H had some 
reasonable disposable income left over each month. They had joint savings of 
£20,000 and no other major assets or liabilities.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Hs BSPS was approximately 
£40,240. Hed accrued over 4 years service. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 
65.
Mr H had also joined the new TATA Steel defined contribution (DC) pension scheme 
as a consequence of the BSPS closing to ongoing contributions.
CST set out its advice in a suitability report on 15 January 2018. In this it advised Mr H to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. CST said 
this would allow Mr H to achieve his objectives. Mr H accepted this advice and so transferred 
out.
In 2021 Mr H complained to CST about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out to a personal pension. Mr H referred his complaint to our Service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, CST said it 
hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr H had at the time. 
However, CST has since said it would like to settle the complaint. It said it would do this in 
full and using a specific redress calculator which the financial regulator has established for 
these cases. So, CST has asked for Mr H to supply details of his transferred pension value 
so it can begin the process of establishing if there has been a loss. CST has said if there is a 
loss, then it will pay what is due under the guidelines issued by the financial regulator.
However, Mr H still hasnt provided these details. This is unfortunate as weve asked for the 
value several times now and Im satisfied that Mr H is aware of what is needed to start the 
redress process. 
So, even though I can see CST is apparently willing to settle this complaint using the 
approach we endorse, it cant evidently be resolved informally. Its therefore come to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CST's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, CST should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Hs best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Hs best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from CST. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses made to 
the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Introductory issues
Id like to start by referring to the timeline of events. Ive already described above how 
members of the BSPS were given until 22 December 2017 to decide whether or not to join 
the BSPS2. We know that if no choice was made then the member would eventually move to 
the PPF if they didnt transfer away to a personal pension type arrangement. Ive seen 
evidence that Mr H was minded to make the choice to transfer to the BSPS2, if only as a 
precaution whilst he was seeking wider financial advice.
However, as I cant be completely sure he signed up for the BSPS2, Ill explain a little more 
about the timeline of events. If he did make a choice, hed have only remained signed up for 
the forthcoming BSPS2 for a short time. This is because we know that by 15 January 2018 
CST had advised him to transfer to a personal pension arrangement. CST confirmed to the 
BSPS on 19 January 2018 that it had provided regulated financial advice. And on 22 
January 2018 it sent pension discharge forms to the trustees to begin the transfer process 
on Mr Hs behalf.
I can also see a service proposition form and fact-find were produced by CST on 16 
November 2017. This, of course, was several weeks ahead of the hard deadline of 22 
December 2017 Ive mentioned above and where members of the BSPS needed to make a 
choice. 
I therefore think by 16 November 2017 there is clear evidence that CST had started to 
advise Mr H. There were also some other documents and questionnaires that Mr H and CST 
worked together on to complete as part of what was clearly a pension transfer advice 
process. I therefore think the advice process was substantially underway throughout 
November 2017 with CST committing substantial resources to analysing Mr Hs financial 
situation and a firm commitment to advising him about whether or not to transfer his DB 
pension.
I should say that none of this really matters to the actual suitability of the advice. 
Nevertheless, if Mr H hadnt formally made a choice before the 22 December deadline, it 
may matter to the redress that could be due for providing an unsuitable recommendation to 
transfer away from a DB scheme: redress would be measured against as if the member 
would have joined the BSPS2, rather doing nothing and entering the PPF. But in my view, 
CST had plenty of time to issue its suitability report ahead of the deadline as its advice 
process commenced in early November. At the very least, CST could and should therefore 
have reinforced the deadline issue of 22 December 2017 to Mr H and he could have signed 
up for the BSPS2 as a precautionary measure. It could have advised Mr H that hed have still been able to change his mind and hed have been able to later transfer away from 
BSPS2 rather than from the PPF.
Financial viability 
CST referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr H was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
The critical yield required to match the existing benefits at the age of 65 in the BSPS2, was 
6.6% if Mr H took a full pension without a tax-free lump sum. If taking a tax-free lump sum, 
the critical yield was 5.55%. However, CST also calculated the critical yield rates for an 
earlier retirement, at the age of 60. It did this because Mr H had apparently expressed a 
desire to retire early. I explain more about this issue later. But for the age of 60, the critical 
yields came out at 8.76% (no tax-free cash) and 7.27% (with tax free cash) respectively. 
CST acknowledged that achieving the critical yields would be ambitious because it said they 
were not guaranteed to be achievable. I think thats right as the yields we should focus on 
here were showing that to make the transfer worthwhile from a financial perspective, the 
growth would need to exceed somewhere in the regions of 6.55% -to- 7.27% per year. It 
would also have to do this year after year  for up to 16 years.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period was only 4.3% per year for 16 
years to retirement (age 65), which is below all of the critical yield figures Ive referred to 
above. For a retirement at the age of 60, the discount rate was only 3.8%. These figures 
imply Mr H wouldnt see growth rates above, or probably even close to, the critical yields. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2% although these hadnt 
been updated for some time and we were in a period then of low interest rates and low bond 
yields. So, if anything, projected returns would realistically be lower. 
CST assessed Mr H as a medium risk investor. But I think even this was too high. The 
evidence Ive seen shows Mr H was not a risk taker and he didnt like the idea of his capital, 
if transferred to a fund, going down as well as up. Its clear Mr H had no experience of wider 
share-buying or money market investments more commonly found in personally managed 
pensions and so he had no past experience to draw upon. Ive taken into account that he 
had a new company DC pension. However, theres no evidence the investment approach 
was anything other than an off the shelf strategy which involved no direct input from Mr H.Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, CSTs own transfer analysis said that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by 
the existing scheme the estimated fund required (also known as the capital value) was 
£85,266. Even to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated 
benefits provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in 
payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £55,858. 
To reiterate, these figures are found in CSTs own analysis based on data the regulator 
required businesses to refer to at the time. And because these figures are far above Mr Hs 
CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed 
pension Mr H could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan, rather than a 
similar DB scheme that was on offer here.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, CST also made mention of the PPF, which it described as 
a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the sponsoring 
employer becomes insolvent. CST said the critical yields to match the benefits available 
through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields related to the reduced benefits 
available with the PPF and CST itself says Mr H wouldnt have wanted to transfer to this 
scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated 
with a personal pension such as the one being recommended to Mr H, would have further 
reduced the likely growth. 
Ive also considered some projections CST used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr H well into retirement. I think most of these were 
based on growth projections which were based on past performance. Its also fair to say 
these were not comparing like-with-like. What CST was showing Mr H were comparisons 
with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. And some of the 
scenarios showed him running out of funds at a certain age whereas his DB pension was 
guaranteed for life.
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, CSTs own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr H would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term. 
Of course, according to CST, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. Rather, 
CST said Mr H also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other 
considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the 
overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
In the suitability report the reasons for recommending the transfer to a personal pension 
were listed in a table of advantages and disadvantages. The report said transferring would:
Allow Mr H to achieve his goal of retiring at age 60, allowing him to withdraw more of 
an income if he wished, to support him through retirement.
Provide control over the pension and how it is invested.
Have better death benefits for his wife and children should he die prematurely.Potential better returns although this wasnt guaranteed. 
Other issues listed within the report referred to a higher tax-free cash element within a 
personal pension plan and the ability to move money tax efficiently between income tax 
bands. The report also said hed be able to avoid encountering problems with the pension 
lifetime allowance (LTA). And he was also told a personal pension could more flexibly bridge 
any gap between an early retirement and reaching the state pension age.
I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Retiring early and flexibility
When issuing the suitability report and the recommendation to transfer away from the DB 
scheme, CST said Mr H wanted to begin reducing his working hours from around the age of 
56 and then retire at the age of 60. CST said transferring and using his pension flexibly 
would enable him to draw more of an income in certain years, to support him through the 
earlier stages of retirement.
I think its fair to say that this was all partly influenced by Mrs Hs health concerns of the time. 
Of course, this is an emotive subject. And I certainly wouldnt want to in any way imply that 
Mrs Hs health wasnt a very important matter. Nor would I wish to minimise the demands on 
Mr Hs time and / or their overall family life caused by the health concerns Mrs H was facing. 
However, Ive looked carefully at the notes from the time the actual advice was given. 
Theres no suggestion from the time that Mrs H needed full time care or that there was a 
requirement for Mr H to stop working because of her health. 
So, the reality as of early 2018 was that Mr H was still only 49 years of age. By pension / 
retirement standards this is still relatively young and however much Mr H aspired to reduce 
his hours or stop working completely, the simple fact was that these were not concrete 
retirement plans. Mr H had only expressed an interest in retiring early and as our investigator 
pointed out hed ticked a box on the pension questionnaire saying, I do not anticipate 
retiring early but would like the flexibility to do so should my circumstances change.
In my view, if looked at realistically, Mr Hs circumstances didnt yet support having fixed 
retirement plans and the adviser shouldnt have based any recommendations on this. Mr H 
had limited knowledge of what lay ahead for him  and limited financial resources with which 
to credibly consider early retirement. We know, for example, he still had two dependent 
children at the time. So, I think its fair to say he and Mrs H would have wanted to first see 
their children successfully gain employment in the years ahead and then leave home before 
these types of decision could be made. I also think that whilst Mrs H was enduring a medical 
condition which was clearly impacting her quality of life, the longer-term prognosis wasnt 
clear enough. Mr Hs CETV was also only £40,240. His new DC pension also comprised of 
only around £21,581. And although there was one other very small historic pension in his 
portfolio, the above was effectively Mr Hs retirement provision thus far, other than the state 
pension. 
In this context, I dont think irreversibly transferring away from a DB scheme was in Mr Hs 
best interests at the age of 49. He and Mrs H had speculated that in retirement theyd like an 
index-linked income of around £24,000 per year. But again, because retirement was so far 
off I think this was no more than an educated guess. And if their preference was for index-
linked retirement funds, then transferring away from the BSPS2  an index-linked scheme - 
doesnt seem to me to have been based on their preference.  I accept Mr H probably went into the advice sessions with an idea of what sounded good. 
However, CSTs job here wasnt to simply transact what Mr H might have thought was a 
good idea. CST was being paid for the advice and so its job was to provide advice that was 
right for him. At only 49 years old, I think the discussions on retirement at the age of 60 were 
premature and no more than aspirational. 
Even if I were to consider these plans were more than the mere aspirations Ive mentioned 
above, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr H required changing how his retirement benefits 
ought to be paid. 
I say this because we know Mrs H already received some state benefits and her own 
pension which jointly comprised around £16,000 per year; the evidence suggests these were 
index-linked to a degree. So in my view, this implies they were already some way towards 
achieving the annual retirement income of £24,000 theyd said they could comfortably live 
on. Ive also already mentioned that Mr H had signed up to a new and more flexible DC 
pension with his existing job as a consequence of the old BSPS scheme being closed to new 
contributions. This DC pension was being significantly contributed towards by both Mr H and 
his employer - 6% and 10% respectively. It still had up to 16 years left to run (almost 11 
years if he did eventually manage to retire early, at the age of 60). So, this secondary 
pension would have provided him with any flexibility he might have needed in the years 
ahead and it could have bridged the income gap between his early sixties for example, and 
when his state pension would be payable. I dont think the adviser took enough account of 
this.
CST itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS2. If retiring at 65, Mr H 
could expect an annual pension of around £2,805 per year or £1,936 per year together with 
a tax-free lump sum of £12,912. Even if I were to only use the estimated pension calculated 
for the earlier retirement, at aged 60, the reduced pension was £1,552 per year and a tax-
free lump-sum of £10,352. And it certainly isnt unreasonable to say Mr H could have built up 
his new DC fund to around £100,000 assuming only low growth. As Mr H appeared to have 
significant disposable income at the time, theres also no obvious reason why he shouldnt 
have been advised to increase his pension contributions thus building a much greater DC 
pension in the TATA fund. I therefore dont think theres anything showing Mr Hs pension 
entitlements wouldnt have met his income requirements, without any need to transfer from 
his DB scheme. Hed also said he was willing to use some or all of his £20,000 in savings to 
help kick start retirement.
So, I think Mr Hs circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 
and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. The evidence pointed to him still 
being able to retire perhaps a little earlier than 65 if he felt he really needed to  there would 
have been an actuarial reduction involved, depending on his age at the time. But because he 
also had a smaller second DC pension, this supported that strategy in my view. 
All this means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr H wouldnt want to continue membership 
of a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, 
I think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr H could have been in an 
agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of moderate 
value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring 
which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation 
guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On 
the other hand, hed have also built up a DC scheme over a reasonable period of time  up 
to 16 years. So, if Mr H ever found he needed so-called flexibility, then hed be able to use 
the latter, rather than transferring away from the former.Ive also seen no evidence that Mr H had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr H was being offered the opportunity to transfer to 
the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. 
Mr H himself had absolutely no experience of these types of money market investments 
and I think he would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing his 
transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr H 
would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him 
money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
Death benefits 
Death benefits are also an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would 
like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain 
benefits payable to a spouse and children if Mr H died. Various useful benefits existed pre-
accessing the pension and also post-accessing the pension. Mr H was married and had 
children so I think the benefits found in BSPS2 would have been of great value and 
reassurance to Mr H. In particular, I think it would have brought Mr H some comfort knowing 
that Mrs H could get at least half his pension if Mr H happened to pre-decease her, not least 
because she was unable to work and also had only a small pension of her own. 
I think the adviser told Mr H that hed be able to pass on the whole value of a personal 
pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone that he nominated. So the lump sum death benefits 
on offer through a personal pension were probably made to look like an attractive feature to 
Mr H. But this needed carefully explaining. Whilst I appreciate death benefits are important 
to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a 
personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise him about what was best 
for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
And I dont think CST explored to what extent Mr H was prepared to accept a lower 
retirement income in exchange for different death benefits.
Mr H was only 49. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death benefits is that the 
amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the pensioner starts to 
withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr H had lived a long life there could 
be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 60 was at least mentioned  CSTs defence of this 
complaint is partially predicated on this. The adviser should have therefore additionally 
known that a healthy male retiring at 60 would likely have quite a few years ahead in which 
he would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to pass on to 
someone. It also doesnt appear that CST took into account the fact that Mr H could have 
nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other (TATA) DC scheme. So, to this 
end, Mr H already had options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Hs situation. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr H, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and CST said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and CST 
said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr H was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was CSTs obligation to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that CST should 
have reassured Mr H that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr H through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his attitude to risk and the effect 
of pension charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think 
that these concerns should have led to CSTs recommendation to Mr H to transfer out of the 
DB scheme altogether.
Other issues
Tax-free cash
CST also implied to Mr H that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan (item 3.5 of the suitability report). It said hed be able to access 25% 
of his pension as a lump-sum and then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its often the 
case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when compared 
against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are 
calculated differently. But CST should have been telling Mr H at the time that extra tax-free 
lump sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from the age of 55 in his 
case, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years 
would obviously decrease. 
The lifetime allowance (LTA)
Similarly, CST said Mr H would have the opportunity to defer and minimise the impact of the 
LTA if transferring away. However, I think this and the issue above are issues unrelated to 
Mr Hs situation. Mr H was nowhere near the LTA.
I think they basically represent a cut and paste from general pension information and are 
somewhat misleading in his case.
Suitability of investments 
CST recommended that Mr H invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr H and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had been 
given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. 
He was giving up an opportunity of a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the 
BSPS2. By transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr H was likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which 
would justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think CST ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in 
retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that the BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr H still had 
quite a few years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr H would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think CST should have advised Mr H to opt into the BSPS2 (or remain in it if 
he had very recently done so). 
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr H would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that CST disclosed some of the risks 
of transferring to Mr H, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately 
it advised Mr H to transfer out, and I think Mr H relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr H would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against CSTs advice. I say this because Mr H was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if CST had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Hs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if CST had explained Mr H was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could probably meet his 
income needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have 
carried significant weight.
In light of the above, I think CST should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for CSTs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would have 
most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. CST should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
CST must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
CST should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr H and our Service upon completion of 
the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CST should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts CSTs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, CST may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.Our investigator recommended that CST should pay Mr H for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would likely have had on 
Mr H in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented most of his 
retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits would have 
impacted upon Mr H. So I agree the recommended payment of £250 for distress and 
inconvenience. CST should pay Mr H this amount in addition to the redress Ive set out 
above.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct CST Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on CST Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman