DRN-3626669
The complaint
Miss J and Mrs J complain about the quality of a vehicle they acquired through a hire 
purchase agreement financed by Mann Island Finance Limited (Mann Island). 
The complaint is brought by Miss J with Mrs Js agreement. For ease of reading, Ill refer to 
Miss J throughout my decision. 
What happened
In December 2020 Miss J acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. 
In January 2021 Miss J experienced a problem with the driver restraint system, and repairs 
were completed by the dealership, covered by a warranty. 
In February 2021 Miss J experienced problems with the headlight aim control, and repairs 
were completed by the dealership, covered by a warranty. 
In May 2021 Miss J experienced a further problem and a repair was completed to the drop 
links, covered by a warranty. 
Due to the problems experienced with the car, Miss J decided to have a vehicle health check 
completed. The report from this check concluded that the vehicle had previously been 
involved in a major accident and had been written off. It said the repair work had been 
carried out poorly, and not by the vehicle manufacturer. 
In July 2021 Miss J complained to Mann Island about the quality of the car. Mann Island 
arranged for an inspection of the vehicle, which was completed in October 2021. 
The inspection concluded that the vehicle has been involved in both a front and rear end 
collision and repaired to a very poor standard, but it wasnt unsafe. It identified 18 issues 
with the vehicle. The engineer said the repairs didnt look very old, but they couldnt be more 
precise than that. 
Mann Island sent Miss J their final response to her complaint in November 2021. They said 
the inspection report didnt find any evidence that the faults were present at the point of sale, 
and there were no issues identified on the MOT or periodic maintenance inspection 
completed prior to the sale of the vehicle, so they didnt uphold Miss Js complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Miss J brought her complaint to this service for investigation. She said the 
car failed its MOT in November 2020 due to the headlight aim, and then passed, but repairs 
didnt appear to have been completed. Miss J said the damage confirmed in the engineers 
report matched that found in the MOT, and the damage she had repaired in January and 
February 2021, showing the damage was present before the car was acquired. Miss J said 
she hadnt been involved in an accident. 
Our investigator gave her view that she thought it was highly unlikely Miss J had been 
involved in a major accident and had extensive repairs carried out across the entire vehicle 
when considering the timeframe and the various appointments with mechanics she had for 
repairs. 
Our investigator said the inspection was completed less than a year after the vehicle was 
required, so the conclusion that the repairs were completed recently wasnt enough to say 
that they were done after the vehicle was acquired. She concluded that, on the balance of 
probabilities, the vehicle was faulty when it was supplied to Miss J. 
Our investigator went on to say that she thought this made the vehicle of unsatisfactory 
quality at the time it was supplied, as she didnt think a reasonable person would expect 
such extensive damage that had been poorly repaired, even on a car of this age and 
mileage. 
Our investigator recommended that Miss J be allowed her final right to reject the vehicle, 
with the finance agreement being ended and the vehicle collected at no further cost to Miss 
J. She recommended that Mann Island refund Miss Js deposit plus interest, refund 50% of 
the monthly payments made toward the agreement to reflect the use Miss J had of the car 
plus interest, waive any arrears and remove any adverse information from Miss Js credit file. 
Mann Island accepted our investigators recommendations, but said theyd inspect the 
vehicle when it was collected and there may be charges applied for damage sustained whilst 
it was in Miss Js possession. 
Mann Island collected the vehicle in April 2022 and provided an estimate for repairs to Miss 
J totalling £5,010. They said they were charging for damage found when the vehicle was 
collected as follows: 
New front bumper
New passenger side headlight
New crash bar
New top frond bumper grill
New pedestrian sensor
Front panel plastic membrane
Passenger side wheel arch
From the bar sponge
New plug and screw
Plastic vent
Bottom bumper grill
Parking sensor x2
Refurbish alloy wheels
Spray work to the front and back bumpers, front and back wing, bonnet, and boot lid
Miss J complained that Mann Island were charging for damage that was present when the 
car was supplied, and that negative information had been recorded on her credit file about a 
missed payment after shed been told she could cancel her direct debit. 
Our investigator asked Mann Island to review the damage charges, with her 
recommendations that they had accepted, in mind. That is, that Mann Island had agreed to 
the rejection of the vehicle due to it being of unsatisfactory quality at the time of supply as a 
result of a previous accident. 
Mann Island said theyd reduce the damage charge to £3,000 following further inspection of 
the vehicle. They said the reaming charge was for new damage to the front of the vehicle. Our investigator gave her view that the damage noted when the vehicle was collected 
matched that noted when it was inspected in October 2021, and her recommendation 
remained the same that this damage was present at the point of sale, and so Miss J 
shouldnt be charged for it. 
Mann Island said the pictures of the damage at collection were clearly different from those at 
the inspection in October 2021, and so it was fair for Miss J to be charged for the additional 
damage caused.   
Miss J said the repairs to the damage present when the car was acquired were so poor, that 
this has resulted in deterioration to the paintwork, rather than it being new damage. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Mann Island as the supplier of the goods under this type 
of agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
Mann Island have accepted that Miss Js car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied, and that she is entitled to her final right to reject the car. They accepted our 
investigators recommendations to refund Miss Js deposit and 50% of her monthly payments 
plus interest, waive any arrears on Miss Js account, and remove any adverse information 
from her credit file. I think these recommendations were fair and reasonable, and theyre no 
longer in dispute between the parties. So, I havent considered these points further, but for 
the avoidance of doubt Ive included them in my decision as the full range of actions havent 
yet been completed. 
Mann Island said theyd inspect the vehicle when it was collected and would charge Miss J 
for any damage caused whilst she was in possession of the vehicle. Once the vehicle had 
been inspected, they initially charged her £5,010, but then reduced this to £3,000. They said 
the charge reflected damage to the front of the vehicle that wasnt noted in previous 
inspections, and so mustve been caused whilst Miss J had the vehicle. 
Ive seen the inspection reports completed in May 2021 and October 2021, along with the 
MOT and periodic maintenance inspection completed prior to Miss J acquiring the vehicle. 
The periodic maintenance inspection completed in November 2020 noted that the offside 
headlight aim needed readjusting, and the MOT completed in November 2020 also noted 
that the offside front headlamp aim was too low. 
Ive seen evidence that Miss J experienced a fault in the vehicle relating to the headlight aim 
control in February 2021. 
The inspection completed in October 2021 noted a number of areas of damage to both the 
front and rear of the vehicle, including to the front bumper and bonnet, and front wings. It 
concluded that the vehicle has been involved in both a front and rear end collision and 
repaired to a very poor standard. The damage that Mann Island have charged Miss J for following collection of the vehicle 
include the same areas as addressed in the inspection report completed in October 2021. 
Mann Island say the photos clearly show additional damage to that found at the inspection in 
October 2021. Ive reviewed the images, and alongside the conclusions that the previous 
repairs to this damage had been completed poorly, Im satisfied that the images show a 
deterioration of damage already present, rather than new damage to the car. 
So, all things considered, Im satisfied that the damage found at collection of the vehicle has 
previously been reported and is the same as the damage that made the vehicle of 
unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Miss J, and so Mann Island should 
remove the charge for this. 
Putting things right
Mann Island have accepted the rejection of Miss Js car and collected it from her. There 
should be no further charge to Miss J. The charge for damage should be removed, as Im 
satisfied that it was present when the car was supplied to Miss J. 
Mann Island should refund Miss Js deposit, plus 8% simple interest. 
Mann Island have accepted that Miss J had reduced use of the vehicle and have agreed to 
refund 50% of the monthly payments she made, plus 8% simple interest. I think this is fair in 
the circumstances. 
Mann Island have agreed to waive any arrears under Miss Js agreement and remove any 
adverse information from her credit file. I think this is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and Mann Island Finance Limited must: 
End the agreement at no further cost to Miss and Mrs J including removing the 
charge for damage made after the vehicle was collected. 
Refund Miss and Mrs Js deposit of £4,000 plus 8% simple yearly interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund 50% of the 15 monthly payments Miss and Mrs J made, at a total of 
£2,634.60 plus 8% simple yearly interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Waive any outstanding arrears on Miss and Mrs Js account. 
Remove any adverse information from Miss and Mrs Js credit file.
If Mann Island considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss and Mrs J how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss and Mrs J a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mrs J 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman