DRN-4012474
The complaint
Mr C complained that MCE Insurance Limited unfairly cancelled his motorcycle insurance 
policy
What happened
Mr C was stopped by the police for not having insurance for his motorcycle. But Mr C was 
insured. He had bought a policy through MCE, his insurance broker. However it wasnt 
shown on the national database because of MCEs administrative mistake. 
Mr C also missed premium payment dates and incurred late payment fees under his credit 
agreement and said he wouldnt pay them due to MCEs mistake. MCE cancelled his policy 
for non-payment. MCE didnt think they were wrong to do that. But they agreed that theyd 
made a mistake about the database entry and offered Mr C £50 in compensation. Mr C 
wanted more compensation and for MCE to reinstate his policy and remove the late payment 
fees.
The investigator recommended that Mr Cs complaint be partly upheld. He thought that MCE 
were not unreasonable to cancel his policy. But he thought that their failure to ensure the 
database showed Mr C as being insured had caused him trouble and upset, and £50 didnt 
fairly recognise the impact of that. So MCE should increase the compensation to £100. 
Neither Mr C nor MCE agreed and so Ive been asked to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C took out his policy in June and paid the premium in monthly instalments via a credit 
agreement. In August and October Mr C was late paying his monthly premium and MCE at 
first said they would charge him a £30 late payment fee each time. Having looked at his 
policy and credit agreement I see that this charge was clear, and MCE were entitled to 
charge it. However MCE agreed to waive it both times. I think that was fair of MCE. 
In about November the police stopped Mr C. Fortunately he was able to show them that he 
was insured. So it wasnt a case of Mr C being fined or having licence penalty points. 
However I can see that being stopped by the police and having to explain and prove the 
situation wouldve been upsetting for him. But although Mr C said he was stopped by the 
police multiple times, despite the investigators requests, he hasnt been able to tell us dates 
and times, so I dont have enough information to support that. 
In November MCE were then again unable to take Mr Cs monthly premium payment and 
another late payment fee became due. MCE had waived the October one because theyd 
made the mistake about his policy not being entered on the national database, and I think 
that was fair of them. 
Mr C wouldnt pay the November premium or the late payment fee because he said he 
wasn't receiving the service MCE offered if it looked like he wasnt insured. However I can 
see from MCEs file that they re-assured Mr C at that time that he was insured and that it 
was simply that due to MCEs mistake it didnt appear on the database. And once he made 
MCE aware of the problem, I can see that MCE did all they could to flag the issue with the 
insurer and resolve it promptly so that the database then showed that he was insured from 
the start.  
MCE also advised Mr C that he needed to keep paying the premiums or they would have to 
cancel the policy. Mr C was contractually obliged to make the payments under the policy in 
order to remain insured. I think that MCE did give him sufficient notice that they would cancel 
if he didnt and so it wasnt unreasonable of them to do so. And MCE are not required to 
reinstate the policy.
However I agree with the investigator that £50 doesnt adequately compensate Mr C for 
MCEs mistake and the inconvenience that being stopped by the police must have caused 
him and I think that £100 does so more adequately. So I think they should pay him that, less 
the £50 if they have already paid that.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I require MCE 
Insurance Limited to do the following:
 
 Pay Mr C total compensation of £100 for his distress and inconvenience, less any 
compensation amount that they have already paid him. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
MCE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr C  
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If MCE consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell him how much they have taken off. They should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
