DRN-3193537
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are seeking to recover £50,000 from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays), 
which they lost from their account as a result of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Barclays says it is not liable for the loss because Mr and Mrs M unwittingly authorised 
the payment themselves  and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to 
try to recoup the money from the receiving bank.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 to explain why I thought Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint should be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. 
This is an extract from my provisional decision: 
In 2015 Mr and Mrs M wanted to invest some funds. Mr M found a purported investment 
company through a website advert, and did also speak to them on the phone. He said an 
individual called him every day to pressure him to invest. He asked them about the 
investment, the company and the risk. He was assured his investment would be in 
managed property so would be low risk despite guaranteed monthly returns. Mr and Mrs 
M were persuaded to invest so transferred £50,000 via CHAPS transfer on 1 December 
2015. They said they did this in branch. 
Unbeknownst to Mr and Mrs M, they had actually been speaking to a scammer who was 
operating as a fake investment company. They discovered it was a scam when after a 
month he didnt receive his interest and only received excuses from the scammer when 
he asked where his money was. He said Barclays didnt ask any questions when he was 
making the payment. He explained he didnt report the scam until March 2016 as he had 
been chasing the scammer for his payments and got fed up after continuously receiving 
excuses from them. They reported the matter to the police, Trading Standards and 
Barclays. An individual has been convicted due to these events. But Mr and Mrs M are 
unhappy as they think Barclays should have done more checks and prevented them 
from sending money to the scammer. 
Barclays reviewed what happened and declined to refund the transaction. They said 
there was no error on their part in transferring the funds to the requested account details 
provided by the customer. They also said they had raised an indemnity and found there 
were no funds remaining in the beneficiary account. They offered a total of £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by delays in their investigation and delays in 
informing Mr and Mrs M that no funds remained in the receiving account. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy so they came to our service. An investigator reviewed 
what had happened and didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. They felt that 
the transaction was unusual and should have warranted more questions, but that they 
werent satisfied that the scam would have been uncovered and prevented if probing 
questions had been asked. They said this due to the sophisticated nature of the scam 
including the paperwork which they felt was so believable that Barclays likely wouldnt 
have recognised that it was a scam either. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our 
investigators findings. So, it has come to me to decide. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not minded to come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I am 
currently minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
It is not in dispute that this was an authorised payment even though Mr and Mrs M were 
the victims of a sophisticated scam. Mr M went into branch and verified his identity and  
instructed Barclays to send the £50,000 to the sort code and account number of the 
scammer.  Whilst he did so under deception, under the Payment Service Regulations 
2009 and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr and Mrs M are presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made of received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate. 
So, I consider that as a matter of good practice, Barclay should have been on the lookout 
for unusual and out of character transactions. Ive looked at the activity that took place 
on Mr and Mrs Ms accounts and a £50,000 payment was unusual and uncharacteristic, 
particularly as it was being sent to a new payee. Mr and Mrs M had made a payment of 
£30,000 a few months prior to this one, but this was to his own savings account and so 
this was been sent to an existing payee. Given that this was over £20,000 more and to a 
new payee I do still think this should have stood out as a suitably unusual transaction. Mr 
and Mrs M have said the transaction was made in branch, so branch staff had the 
opportunity before them to find out more about this transaction. And so, Im persuaded 
that Barclays staff should have been concerned about the possibility of fraud here and 
that Barclays should have asked some questions about the payment and warned Mr and 
Mrs M of potential fraud and scams. 
Due to the unusual nature of the payment the relevant law, regulations and good industry 
practice required Barclays to question of Mr and Mrs M about the transaction and the 
reasons for making them before it agreed to process them on her behalf. Mr M says he 
doesnt remember branch staff questioning him about the payment when he went into 
branch  he cant even remember being asked what the payment was for. And Barclays said 
that with the available information they couldnt confirm whether he was asked any questions regarding the payment. Im satisfied that this type of scam  an investment scam  wouldve 
been well-known to banks at the time Mr and Mrs M made the payment. But, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, it doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs M were asked questions about the 
transfer by branch staff before it was executed. 
In my judgment, Barclays could and should have done more here, particularly given that 
good industry practice from the time encourages staff to ask questions about potentially 
fraudulent payments in order to test the purpose and legitimacy of the payment. Staff 
should have asked more probing questions such as what the investment was for and its 
expected returns, what paperwork they had received upfront, whether they could show 
Barclays the paperwork, how they had been contacted and whether they had done 
sufficient checks on the alleged investment firm  including whether the firm was 
regulated. 
Mr and Mrs M werent given any cover story to provide to bank staff and Im satisfied that 
had they been asked these questions they would have told Barclays how they had found 
the firm, the checks they had completed, the reason for the payments and the promised 
returns on investment. Whilst we cannot know exactly what would have happened had 
Mr and Mrs M been further questioned, I think on balance the payments could have been 
prevented if Barclays had asked the probing questions. The scammer had told Mr and 
Mrs M that they would receive 17.4% monthly returns on their investment  which would 
have been implausible unless Mr and Mrs M were entering into high risk investments. 
But Mr and Mrs M were under the impression that their capital was not at risk and that 
they could remove it at any point, receiving it within 10-30 minutes of their request. The 
scammer told then that should anything happen to their initial capital then he would be 
personally liable and that he would facilitate the full compensation of his funds. He also 
said that all monies were covered under UK banking law. They thought they were 
entering into investments that ultimately guaranteed returns. Whilst the paperwork looks 
quite professional, I think the wording and promises contained within it would have given 
Barclays cause for concern here. I am satisfied that had Barclays asked these more 
probing questions or looked at the paperwork from the purported investment company, 
they would have realised that something was amiss  before it was too late. Mr and Mrs 
M have admitted they didnt do many checks such as seeing if the company were FCA 
regulated  and the returns were unusually high  theyd simply trusted that they were 
speaking to someone professional and asked them about the company and the risks. At 
this point, Barclays could have educated Mr and Mrs M about this particular type of scam 
and its key characteristics. Mr and Mrs M have said they trusted Barclays, and had they 
been told about the potential risks they would have exercised caution and not gone 
ahead with the payment. 
In other words, my current thinking is that but for Barclays failure to probe the scam 
probably would not have succeeded and Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have gone on to make 
the payment at all  and Mr and Mrs M wouldnt have made the £50,000 payment to the 
scammers. 
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from 
the payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for 
completeness, I will say that they did exercise care and urgency in contacting the 
receiving bank and trying to retrieve any funds  though unfortunately none were 
remaining as the scammer had removed them from the account. 
I have also considered whether Mr and Mrs M should bear some responsibility in terms 
of their actions. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of the payment 
authorisation they were totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what they were doing or the consequences of their actions. They thought they were sensibly investing 
their money with a professional investment company. I am satisfied they were simply the 
unwitting and blameless victims of a clever fraudster. And Barclays was the professional 
in financial matters; Mr and Mrs M were the laypeople. 
In the circumstances I currently minded to say that Barclays should fairly and reasonably 
reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the loss they suffered without any reduction together with 
interest to compensate them for being deprived of the money they lost. I think that had 
the fraudster not taken the money from Mr and Mrs M £47,000 that was moved from their 
savings account may have stayed in their savings account, so unless I change my mind I 
will ask Barclays to pay the interest at that rate. I think the further £3,000 would be 
refunded with an interest of 8% simple interest for to compensate them for being 
deprived of this money.
 
I also think it is appropriate that they have paid £250 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs M have suffered  this was a large amount of money and the 
uncertainty of not knowing whether they would get their money back would have added 
to the distress caused by the scammer. In reaching this conclusion I am mindful that their 
loss was ultimately caused by the callous act of a fraudster and it was an authorised 
transaction, but Barclays could ultimately have prevented the payments from leaving the 
account at all. 
My provisional decision 
For the reasons above, I am currently minded to uphold this complaint and require Barclays 
to: 
Pay Mr and Mrs M £50,000; 
Pay interest on that sum at the savings account rate for the £47,000 and 8% simple 
interest on the £3000 that came from their current account from the date of the loss 
to the date of the refund; and 
Pay Mr and Mrs M the £250 for distress and inconvenience, if they have not already 
done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M agreed with my provisional decision, and didnt have anything further to say in 
relation to this complaint. Barclays said that Mr M had previous investment experience, so 
they believe that this knowledge of investing should have meant that they understood what 
realistic returns looked like, and questioned whether this had been considered as part of the 
provisional decision. 
Mr M had indeed previously invested  he had some shares that he held since the 1990s. 
He said he also invested in properties through genuine companies around 2010, though they 
both went bankrupt meaning he didnt receive his funds or any returns. He made the 
decision to invest in this case as he had lost his job at the time and his pension wasnt what 
he expected. Barclays havent said so directly, but I would assume that they have raised his 
previous experience to say that Mr and Mrs M should perhaps be held responsible for some 
or all of their losses; or that Mr and Mrs M would have gone ahead with the payment even if 
they had intervened. So, Ill consider both points it turn.
 
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions. In this case, I still do not think Mr and Mrs M were to blame for what happened; whilst Mr M had dabbled in investments previously, it is clear they didnt 
foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm. Mr and Mrs M were not aware when 
authorising the payments that these would have been the consequences of their actions. I 
am not persuaded that the fact Mr M had dabbled in investments previously holds much 
weight here  ultimately Mr and Mrs M were simply the unwitting and blameless victims of 
clever fraudsters. The bank was the professional in financial matters; Mr and Mrs M were 
laypeople. 
I also remain persuaded, despite Mr Ms previous investment experience, that intervention 
from Barclays was both necessary, and would have most likely made a difference here. Its 
clear that Mr and Mrs M werent such savvy investors that they knew that the investment 
terms were too good to be true. As outlined above, I have no reason to believe that Mr and 
Mrs M would not have been entirely open about their investment if questioned. I remain of 
the opinion that they would have believed Barclays when it informed them about how 
suspicious and ultimately unrealistic the purported investment sounded  and that they 
would have not gone ahead with the payment.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and require Barclays to: 
Pay Mr and Mrs M £50,000; 
Pay interest on that sum at the savings account rate for the £47,000 and 8% simple 
interest on the £3000 that came from their current account from the date of the loss 
to the date of the refund; and 
Pay Mr and Mrs M the £250 for distress and inconvenience, if they have not already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman