DRN-3506256
The complaint
Mr S complains that the American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) mobile 
application (app) displayed that an offer had been saved to his Gold card when it hadnt 
been, resulting in Mr S losing out on £100.
What happened
Mr S has two American Express credit cards. Mr S attempted to save an offer to his Gold 
card. He says that the app displayed a green tick and a message which read the offer has 
been saved. The offer was if he spent £350 with the retailer, he would receive £100 back. Mr 
S made a purchase with the retailer for £358.50. 
Mr S did not receive the £100 credit, so he gave American Express a call. He explained what 
had happened to them, but they said that they had no record of the offer being saved on his 
Gold card. Mr S says that the call handler informed him that he would raise a manual 
request to credit his account. 
Mr S contacted American Express as he had not heard anything about the manual request, 
but Mr S says the call handler he spoke to told Mr S that he was unable to help, or see any 
information regarding a manual credit. Mr S found out by chat that American Express had 
declined the request, because they had no record of the offer being saved. As the call 
handlers he spoke to could not resolve the issue, Mr S made a complaint.
American Express partially upheld Mr Ss complaint. They said that Mr S had contacted 
them on 8 March 2022, where the call handler told him that he had saved the offer to his 
Platinum card but made the transaction on his Gold card, therefore he was not eligible for 
the credit as the terms and conditions of the offer were not met. American Express said that 
the call handler agreed to contact their offers team to explain the circumstances and to 
request a manual adjustment, however, the call handler made it clear he could not 
guarantee the outcome. 
American Express said the call handler told Mr S he would receive a phone call when a 
response was received, but they failed to give Mr S a call back. They credited Mr Ss Gold 
card with £25 credit in recognition of the inconvenience of them not calling him back. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He said in American Express response, there 
was no mention of the issue with the app or the app informing him the offer had been 
successfully saved, even though it hadnt been. Our investigator did not uphold the 
complaint. He said the evidence showed that Mr S had applied for the offer on his Platinum 
card and the evidence Mr S provided does not show that he saved the offer to his Gold card, 
so as there was no evidence to show it was saved to the Gold card, then he couldnt 
evidence that American Express had done anything wrong. He said he felt the £25 credited 
to Mr Ss card for not ringing him back was fair. 
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that due to his occupation, 
he believes that the error most likely occurred due to a connectivity issue between the app 
and their servers and the request he made never reached their servers, which is why they 
dont have any evidence of this and the app incorrectly handled the error and showed him a 
successful response, even though the error occurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must explain to Mr S that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how American Express have investigated 
his complaint, such as there being no mention of the issue with the app in his final response 
letter he received, dont come under my powers to consider. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about the likely cause of the error. But Im not persuaded 
by this. Im persuaded that Mr S had a successful response from the app as the evidence 
shows that he saved this to his Platinum card and not his Gold card, however, he made the 
purchase with the Gold card. I can see from the evidence American Express sent our service 
that he saved the retailer offer onto his Platinum card on 25 February at 11:25am. So Im 
satisfied that the reason Mr S got a successful message is because he saved the offer to his 
Platinum card.
I do believe that Mr S had genuinely thought he saved this to his Gold card also. And that is 
why he made the purchase with the Gold card. But the evidence shows that the offer was 
not enrolled on with the Gold card. The screenshots Mr S has sent our service show that the 
offer expired on 27 March. But these dont show which card these were saved to. 
Mr S had a conversation with American Express on 8 March, this is before the offer would 
have expired. The agent asks if Mr S could see the offer saved on his Gold card. Mr S 
responds that he cant see it now. This may suggest that the offer was not available for his 
Gold card. American Express have told me that not all offers are available on all accounts. 
But Mr S says he tried to save the offer onto both cards. While I cant verify this either way, 
on the balance of probabilities, this may explain why the offer did not show as either 
available or enrolled on Mr Ss Gold account before the offer had expired when he had the 
chat with the agent on 8 March.
From the screenshots American Express have provided me, these show Mr Ss enrolled 
offers archive. Ive looked at both of his accounts. It also shows offers that Mr S has enrolled 
on, but not fulfilled. From the screenshots, the retailer in question does not show on the 
archived enrolled Gold card offers, but it does show on the Platinum offers. 
As Mr S had successfully saved the offer to his Platinum card, this does not indicate that 
there would be an app error in saving an offer to a card, even if it was available on Mr Ss 
Gold card. The screenshot Ive seen shows Mr S did enrol on this offer for his Platinum card 
through the app and details the operating system he used. So Im not persuaded that there 
was an error on the app here. So I cant say that Mr Ss belief of what happened with the 
servers happened, as I have no evidence from either party to prove this. In order to uphold 
this part of the complaint, Id need to see evidence that American Express had made an 
error, but Im not persuaded that they did here. The evidence shows that the offer was saved 
to the Platinum card and not the Gold card, and because the Gold card was used to make 
the purchase, this is why Mr S had not met the terms and conditions of the offer. 
Ive listened to the phone calls Mr S had when he queried where the £100 was. The call 
handler says Im going to forward this to one of the managers, see they could approve it sir, 
but, err I wont be able to give you a guarantee, but as soon as I hear from them, I will get in 
touch with you. So here, the call handler states he cant guarantee if this would be successful, but he does set an expectation that he would call Mr S back once he had an 
answer.
Ive also listened to the call where Mr S rings American Express the following day, when he 
didnt receive a call back. The call handler tells Mr S that the request hadnt been actioned 
yet. The call handler explains that it may take a little while to get in touch with Mr S, but he 
would request they directly got in touch with Mr S. But this didnt happen. Mr S only found 
out that the request was declined when he used the chat facility.
So Im persuaded that this would have been frustrating for Mr S. He had been told by not 
one, but two call handlers that he would get a phone call about this. So while the phone call 
might not have provided Mr S the answer he was looking for, at least he would have known 
American Expresses position sooner than the chat agent told him. American Express set an 
expectation here, so they inconvenienced Mr S when they did not deliver on this. 
Ive considered whether the £25 American Express credited to Mr Ss account was fair for 
not calling him back. Im satisfied it was fair and Ill explain why. Mr S was inconvenienced 
when he needed to contact American Express after they had made their decision, without 
informing him about it. So Im satisfied that £25 is reasonable for Mr S chasing them up on 
the chat facility, only to be told that the request had been declined. This is broadly in line with 
what I would have awarded if American Express had not upheld this part of his complaint. 
In summary, Ive not seen any proof that the American Express app was at fault, so it would 
not be fair for me to say that American Express should pay Mr S £100 here as he had not 
met the terms and conditions of the offer. And Im satisfied that the compensation they paid 
Mr S for not ringing him back was proportionate. So it follows I dont require American 
Express to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman