DRN-3060428
The complaint
Mr G complains that the car he acquired through Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants VFS to reimburse him for the seven 
months that he couldnt use the car. Mr G is represented in his complaint by Mrs G.
What happened
Mr G entered a hire purchase agreement in September 2018 to acquire a new car. The 
agreement was over 48 months, with 47 monthly payments of £339.91 followed by a final 
payment of £9,607.50. Mrs G says issues with the diesel particulate filter (DPF) means the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality and because of this, VFS should reimburse Mr G for the 
months when he made loan repayments but wasnt able to use the car. Mrs G told us:
When they first acquired the car in September 2018, theyd told the dealer that they 
didnt want a diesel car because theyd had problems with a previous diesel car, and 
they planned to use the new car predominantly for short journeys to and from the 
train station. She says the salesman told them this was a newer model and they 
wouldnt experience the same DPF problems;
when the engine management and the DPF warning lights on the dashboard came 
on some time later, Mr G contacted VFS and an appointment was made to look at 
the car in three weeks time. In the meantime, Mr G was told it wasnt an urgent 
matter and he shouldnt worry about it  he should simply take the car for a blast on 
the motorway;
when the car was examined, Mr and Mrs G were told that theyd waited too long to 
have the car looked at  the DPF was blocked and it was no longer covered by a 
warranty and would cost more than £2,500 to repair;
VFS made a good will offer and said it would contribute towards the cost of repairs, 
but that theyd still need to pay a significant amount towards the overall costs;
they couldnt afford the quoted cost of repairs and decided to have the repairs 
undertaken privately for £24. And then the car was part-exchanged for another car at 
a local dealership in July 2020
they want a minimum of £2,379.37 in compensation because of the time, stress and 
energy theyve expended in dealing with this matter. Mr G suffered ill health just 
before the national lockdown, so they really needed to be able to use the car, but 
theyve paid nearly £2,400 in monthly payments for a car they couldnt use  
7 months x £339.91  and been held to ransom and asked to pay £2,500 to fix the 
problem with the DPF. And Mrs G has had to use public transport to get to work.
VFS said it hadnt been able to investigate Mr Gs complaint because hed part-exchanged 
the car and settled the finance agreement before he brought his complaint to VFS. And 
because of this it hadnt been able to look at the car and run any diagnostics. It said it had 
contacted the dealerships that Mr G had visited in March 2020 and June 2020, and they both 
confirmed the DPF needed replacing because the ash content had been high.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 was of particular relevance here and that 
shed taken it into account when investigating this complaint.
She said she was satisfied that the DPFs ash content was too high and a new DPF was 
needed. However, Mr G was able to have it repaired by paying £24 and having the DPF 
regenerated. She said shed not seen any evidence that the DPF wasnt working as it 
shouldve done or that the DPF had been faulty at the point of supply  Mr G had trouble-
free driving for the first 16 months and had been able to cover more than 10,000 miles. She 
said she had to consider that it was his usage of the car  regular short journeys  that had 
caused the DPF to become blocked.
She concluded that the car hadnt been of unsatisfactory quality when it was first supplied 
and because of this she wouldnt be asking VFS to refund any of the monthly payments to 
Mr G.
She said shed considered Mrs Gs comments about their being pressured into taking a 
diesel vehicle when theyd actually wanted a petrol car. But taking everything into account, 
she wasnt persuaded that theyd been mis-sold the car. She acknowledged she wasnt 
present when the discussions at the dealership took place, but on the basis that Mr G looked 
at half a dozen cars  both diesel and petrol  before returning to the dealership several 
days later to select this car, she was satisfied hed had a choice about which car to purchase 
and shed not seen any evidence that hed been pressured into taking this particular car.
Mr and Mrs G disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mrs G says they paid for a 
car they couldnt use, something that no one should be expected to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr G is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. VFS is also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This says 
under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  VFS in this case  has a responsibility to 
make sure the goods were of satisfactory quality.
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account any 
relevant factors. The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods. In this case, I would consider relevant factors to include, amongst others, the cars 
age, price, description and mileage.
The car that was supplied to Mr G was brand new and cost nearly £25,000. Ill take into 
account that I think a reasonable person would expect to have a significant amount of 
trouble-free motoring and expect that it could be used  free from defects  for a 
considerable amount of time.
What I need to consider in this case is whether the car supplied to Mr G was of satisfactory 
quality or not.The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that a car must be of satisfactory quality (taking into 
account its age and mileage), be as described and fit for purpose. If a problem arises within 
the first six months of purchase, theres a presumption that the problem was present at the 
point of sale unless the seller can prove otherwise. And the seller has to repair or replace the 
car free of charge. After six months, the onus is on the buyer to prove that the fault was 
present at the point of sale.
I dont think theres any dispute that Mr G has experienced problems with the DPF on his 
car. But, whilst I accept that there have been issues with the DPF, VFS would only be 
responsible for putting things right if the DPF issues caused the car to be of unsatisfactory 
quality or were present at the point of supply. And I simply dont think this is the case.
Im persuaded that had there been a fault with the DPF at the point of sale, it wouldve 
manifested itself far sooner and Mr G simply wouldnt have been able to drive nearly 10,000 
miles in the time between acquiring the car and his first reporting DPF issues 18 months 
later. If the fault was present at the point of sale, I would have expected it to have shown up 
far sooner.
For me to agree to uphold this complaint, Id need to be persuaded that there was a fault 
with the DPF and that it was present or developing at the point of sale. And I simply have no 
evidence to suggest that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman