DRN-2870177
The complaint
Mr W complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) did not provide clear information about a 
loan it gave him in October 2020.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
L2G lent Mr W a loan of £250 in October 2020, this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving 
the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and I will explain 
why.
On 30 October 2020, Mr W applied for a loan for £250 online with L2G. Mr W says he was 
looking into a short term loan due to financial difficulties and used a website to look into 
borrowing £100 for 2 weeks to ease pressure on his finances. He said he then received an 
email from L2G saying a payment for £250 was sent to his bank and a direct debit had been 
set up for the loan to be repaid over 73 weeks. Mr W has told our service that this meant he 
would be charged interest of over £900 alone for a £250 loan, which he says is 
unacceptable.
I have looked into this and can see that Mr W has signed a pre contract agreement and loan 
agreement with L2G. Within both of these agreements, I think that the length of the loan 
term, the amount and monthly repayments are made clear. So, on seeing this I think it is 
more likely than not Mr W would have been aware of what the terms of the loan were, and 
he signed the forms to accept them. 
Mr W says he asked to pay off the loan early but was told by L2G that this was not allowed. I 
have looked into this and cant see any terms given that would tie Mr W into having to repay 
the loan over the 73-week loan term. I have also been able to read the system notes that 
L2G kept and can see that it has recorded down that it sent a message to Mr W on 30 
October 2020 and this says we have transferred the funds to your bank account. Manage 
your account or make a payment anytime by visiting [L2Gs website], suggesting to me that 
Mr W was informed that he could make a payment any time by visiting L2Gs website, not 
just when he was contractually required to do so.
L2G has also recorded a note regarding an email received from Mr W on 4 November 2020 
where he raises a complaint about the length of the loan. Mr W would have still at this stage 
been able to withdraw from the loan agreement, according to the terms given. When Mr W 
emailed L2G on this occasion, he did not ask to repay the loan early or to withdraw from the 
agreement. 
I have read through all of the notes recorded by L2G and havent read any relating to Mr W 
wishing to make an early repayment. So although he may have requested this and L2G may 
not have recorded this down, I think on balance, I cant on this occasion say that Mr W was 
told he had to make repayments for the whole term of the loan. Ive not seen enough 
evidence to safely draw that conclusion.
So, overall, I agree with the investigator. I dont think L2G did anything wrong regarding Mr 
Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman