DRN-4301001
The complaint
Ms S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont exempt her from strong 
customer authentication.
What happened
Ms S has a current account with Halifax with a debit card. Shes been a customer of Halifax 
for many years.
Ms S has told us that shes largely housebound and has a number of disabilities and 
vulnerabilities which mean that she avoids screens and going online, amongst other things. 
Shes also told us that she used to do the majority of her shopping over the phone in order to 
avoid screens and going online. That included ordering food over the phone from a well- 
known supermarket.
Following the introduction of strong customer authentication, Ms S says that retailers  
including the supermarket she orders food from  started saying that theyd need to 
authenticate her payments when she placed orders over the phone. Ms S complained to 
Halifax saying that she didnt have a mobile phone in order to receive the one-time passcode 
shed need in order to authenticate and that she couldnt retrieve a one-time passcode from 
her landline at the same time as she was using it to place an order. She complained that she 
was being pushed into shopping online  and forced into using screens  and asked to be 
exempted from strong customer authentication.
Halifax looked into Ms Ss complaint and said that it could send one-time passcodes to her 
landline, or she could grant a trusted member of her family power of attorney over her 
account, so she didnt need a mobile phone in order to authenticate. It also said that it 
couldnt exempt her from strong customer authentication. And Halifax said, in any event, that 
it could see Ms S had been authenticating successfully.
Ms S was unhappy with Halifaxs response and complained to us. She said she couldnt 
retrieve one-time passcodes from her landline if she was using it to place an order. And if 
she was using her iPad to place an order, shed have to go from her bedroom to her living 
room and back again to retrieve one-time passcode. She said shed tried doing this in the 
past and had fallen and hurt herself. And having a landline in her bedroom wasnt an option. 
She also said that the times when shed authenticated successfully were when her family 
members had helped out, but that was increasingly not an option.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ss complaint and asked Halifax whether or not it 
would be prepared to offer Ms S a token with which she could authenticate herself when 
shopping online. Halifax agreed to do so. Our investigator thought that the token was a 
reasonable alternative way for Ms S to authenticate herself in the event that she needed to 
shop online. But they also felt an award of £350 was appropriate, so that recommended 
Halifax pay that too. Ms S disagreed, saying it would mean shed have to use a device with a 
screen. In short, Ms S didnt agree with our investigators recommendations and asked for 
her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, Ive looked into this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In July 2023 I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded to uphold this 
complaint. Heres what my provisional decision said:
Halifax has told us that its changed its online banking and the way its website 
worked. Halifax told Ms S that these changes were as a result of new regulations that 
came into effect in September 2019 that affected the whole banking sector.
Halifax is right that new regulations making changes to the way businesses 
authenticate came into effect in September 2019  the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Halifax is also right that these regulations affected the 
whole banking sector. The regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) 
to apply strong customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those 
circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of 
payment fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication 
for online banking and gave the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement 
strong customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry 
includes card issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, 
nothing to stop firms bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if 
they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong 
customer authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, 
in that the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other 
element, and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the 
authentication data, with the elements falling into two or more of the following 
categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking 
that the person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question 
using factors based on knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at 
least two independent factors when doing so. They cant, for example, check using 
only knowledge based factors, but they can check using one or more knowledge 
based factors and one or more possession based factors. The way Halifax has 
gone about those checks and the implications for Ms Ss ability to shop and manage 
her account independently is at the heart of this complaint.
Halifax approach to implementing strong customer authentication  in May 
2022
Halifax explained to Ms S in its final response in May 2022 that it had made changes 
to online banking and online shopping as a result of new regulations. Those changes 
involved asking its customers to use two factor authentication to identify themselves 
using two out of three different types of identification, namely:
something they knew (password / memorable information);
something they have (a device you own e.g. mobile phone or laptop);
something they are (biometrics like fingerprint or face scanning).
Typically, that would involve Halifax sending a one-time passcode to a customers 
mobile phone or landline, to be used in conjunction with their password and 
memorable information. In other words, passing a knowledge based check 
(password and memorable information) and a possession check (receiving a code 
on a mobile phone or landline and keying it in). Halifaxs approach has developed 
since May 2022  more on that later.
Why did Ms S complain?
Ms S complained because she says she couldnt order goods over the phone 
anymore following the changes Halifax made to its processes. Instead, according to 
Ms S, she was being forced online / into using screens in order to shop for food and 
other items. Ms S says that being forced online / into using screens has a massive 
impact on her physical and mental wellbeing given her disabilities and vulnerabilities.
Its clear from what Ms S has told us that she does not want strong customer 
authentication applied to her, does not want to have to go online and wants to avoid 
screens.
Halifaxs approach to strong customer authentication - now
Halifaxs approach to strong customer authentication has developed since Ms S 
originally complained in May 2022. Halifax, for example, now offers the option of its 
customers authenticating using a token. This is a device that doesnt rely on a 
mobile signal, but it is a device with a screen.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its 
expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about 
strong customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about 
this too. In a paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic 
Money  Our Approach  the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related rules in its Handbook. The FCA said the paper 
provides guidance for a practical understanding of the requirements, our regulatory 
approach and how businesses will experience regulatory supervision. The FCA 
added that its guidance is intended to illustrate ways (but not the only ways) in which 
a person can comply with the relevant regulations and rules.
In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary 
for a PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of 
authentication, to comply with their obligation to apply strong customer 
authentication in line with regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not 
all payment service users will possess a mobile phone or smart phone and 
payments may be made in areas without mobile phone reception. PSPs must 
provide a viable means to strongly authenticate customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that 
businesses shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers 
and should provide viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA 
has, in my opinion, also made it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes 
people who dont possess a mobile phone or a smart phone and not just those who 
cant use one. The FCA has talked, for example, about managing the potentially 
negative impact of strong customer authentication on different groups of customers 
particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or located in areas with limited 
digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for firms to develop 
strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of consumers and 
has said that this means they may need to provide several different authentication 
methods for your customers.
Should Halifax have done more for Ms S when he originally complained?
Ms S has told us that he doesnt own a mobile phone. So, Ive taken the papers the 
FCA has published on strong customer authentication and its thoughts  particularly 
in relation to people who do not possess a mobile  into account when deciding 
whether or not Halifax should have done more when Mr W originally complained and 
whether or not its actions were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In 
addition, Ive taken the Payment Services Regulations  in particular, Article 100  
into account as well as FCA Principle 6  that firms must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Having taken everything into account, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of 
Halifax to implement strong customer authentication  its an important measure to 
help combat fraud. Nor do I think it was unfair or unreasonable of Halifax to decide 
that it was going to rely on knowledge and possession when authenticating its 
customers (its since offered inherence). I do, however, agree with Ms S that Halifax 
needed to provide its customers with an alternative to a mobile phone in order to 
prove possession. Halifax did offer an alternative  a landline  at the time and it now 
offers tokens. Ms S have given good reasons why using her landline or a token 
wouldnt work, and I accept that neither of them are good options for her. There is, 
however, a more fundamental issue in this case, and its that issue that I want to turn 
to now.
Ms Ss fundamental issueHalifax said when it looked into Ms Ss complaint that it could see shed been 
authenticating successfully and that it couldn't exempt her from strong customer 
authentication. Ive told Halifax that I'm satisfied that Ms S hasn't been authenticating 
herself, and that the occasions when there have been successful authentications 
have been down to help from family and friends, and sometimes neighbours. In other 
words, I'm satisfied that she can't authenticate independently. Ms S has told me that 
her family and friends no longer want to help her  theyre moving increasingly away 
from online banking  and her circumstances and her familys circumstances mean 
that theyre less able to. But the more important point here is that Ms S should be 
able to operate her account independently. In this particular case, it doesnt feel right 
Halifax telling Ms S to appoint someone as her power of attorney. For that reason, I 
asked Halifax to consider exempting Ms S. Halifax said two things in response.
Firstly, Halifax said that if the only thing Ms S wants to do is place orders over the 
telephone using her card, then theres no need to exempt her from strong customer 
authentication as orders placed over the telephone arent caught by strong customer 
authentication. Having looked into this further, Halifax said that it appears that the 
supermarket, for example, where Ms S orders her food from over the phone is 
processing her order through its online system giving the appearance that shes 
using her debit card online when thats not what she is trying to do. Ill return to this in 
a moment.
Secondly, Halifax said that it cant remove the requirement for strong customer 
authentication. Ive already said to Halifax that I dont necessarily agree that this is 
the case and that it appears to be inconsistent with a paper UK Finance produced in 
October 2021. In that paper, UK Finance had the following to say at paragraph 20:
20. Vulnerable customers
20.1 UK Finance recognises that there will be certain customers in relation to 
which the application of SCA will present a number of challenges. These 
include vulnerable customers, defined by the FCA as somebody who, due to 
their personal circumstances, is especially susceptible to harm, particularly 
when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care.
20.2 UK Finance has set out below its views on how considerations vis--vis 
vulnerable customers should be applied with respect to two specific SCA-
related matters. However, as a general principle, UK Finance's view is that 
where, having exhausted all of its existing solutions to apply SCA taking into 
account the customer's potential vulnerability, an issuer cannot physically apply 
SCA, then the issuer may apply one SCA factor where possible (to complete 
the transaction) or where this too is not possible, execute the particular 
electronic transaction or take the particular action nonetheless. It is expected, 
however, that the issuer will apply some fraud risk mitigation measures (i.e. 
risk-based assessments of individual transactions, declining high risk 
transactions) and monitor the level of fraud, adjusting its approach as 
necessary.
In short, UK Finance's paper recognises that the harm of excluding particularly 
vulnerable customers from being able to manage their finances can outweigh the 
potential risks posed by fraud. I asked Halifax why it didnt think it could exempt Ms S 
in light of what UK Finance had said and was told Halifax would look into this and get 
back to me. To date, Halifax hasnt done so. So, Im going to require Halifax to tell 
me whether, in light of everything Ive said and the additional enquiries it has made, 
its position has changed and whether its now willing to exempt Ms S from strong customer authentication. In relation to this, I want to add one final point.
Halifax has said that Ms S shouldnt need to go through strong customer 
authentication if all she is doing is placing orders on the phone. I accept that this is all 
Ms S is trying to do. She doesnt use online banking  if she needs to move money 
she uses telephone banking  and she doesnt want to be forced into online 
shopping. I accept too that its more than likely the way the retailer is processing 
orders that is making them appear to be online shopping orders. I can, however, only 
look at Halifaxs part in this  given that its a regulated business providing a financial 
service. In this particular case, however, given that Halifax has said that Ms S 
shouldnt need to go through strong customer authentication as all shes doing is 
placing orders on the phone, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable to require Halifax 
to exempt her so that shes in the position she would have been had it not been for 
the actions of the retailer. I say that because Halifax has the ability to make a 
difference here, and Halifax is the only entity involved who we have jurisdiction over.
I cannot require Halifax to do something it isnt able to do. In such cases if I think the 
business hasnt been fair or reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience is the only real remedy available to me. So, in the event that Halifax 
says that it cannot exempt Ms S from strong customer authentication, Im minded to 
award compensation to reflect the impact this is going to have on Ms Ss ability to 
manage her account and the fact that she may have to move banks. Im minded to 
award Ms S £1,000 in compensation. Our investigator said that they thought an 
award of £350 was appropriate, but that was on the assumption that Halifax had 
offered a reasonable alternative. If Halifax says it can exempt Ms S, then Id be 
minded to make an award of a similar size to the one our investigator made.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Im minded to uphold this complaint and require Bank 
of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Ms S £1,000 in compensation in full and final 
settlement of this complaint, unless Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax confirms 
in response to this provisional decision that it can exempt Ms S.
I asked both parties to comment on my provisional decision. I didnt hear back from Ms S, 
but I had spoken to her on the phone and explained what I was minded to say and she was 
happy with that. Halifax replied saying that it could exempt Ms S but it could only apply an 
exemption to a particular card, meaning that Ms S would have to ask for any new card to be 
exempted if her existing card was lost or stolen or expired. Halifax also asked for an 
extension so that it could speak to stakeholders in the group it belonged to as it hadnt 
exempted a customer before and so wanted to be able to think everything through. I agreed 
to an extension. I have not, however, heard back from Halifax despite that extension having 
expired a while ago and despite emailing several times for an update. So, Im now going to 
issue a decision based on everything Ive been sent to date.
Putting things right
In its response Halifax confirmed to me that it could exempt Ms S from strong customer 
authentication even though the process wasnt as straightforward as it could be. Ive seen 
nothing from Halifax to suggest that its changed its mind. Im, therefore, going to require 
Halifax to exempt Ms S from strong customer authentication.
In my provisional decision, I said Id require Halifax to pay Ms S £1,000 in compensation if it 
couldnt exempt her to reflect the impact strong customer authentication was going to have 
on her ability to manage her account and the fact that she may have to move banks. Alternatively, if Halifax said it could exempt her, I said that I would be minded to make an 
award similar to the one our investigator made - £350  which was on the assumption that 
Halifax had offered a reasonable alternative. Its clear from what Halifax has said that 
exempting Ms S wont be as straightforward a process as it could be. So, Ms S is likely to 
still see an impact  albeit a lesser one  on her ability to manage her account.
Given everything Ive just said, I consider an award of £500  along with exemption  to be a 
fair outcome as that reflects the fact that although exempt Ms S will continue to be impacted. 
So, thats the award Im going to make.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to pay Ms S £500 in compensation and exempt her from strong customer 
authentication in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman