DRN-4322852
The complaint
Mr C complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 August 2023 where I set out a 
background to this complaint and my provisional findings. That decision forms part of my 
final decision. Important parts of my decision are below.
My provisional decision
When Mr C complained to Likely Loans, it acknowledged it shouldnt have lent him loan 1
and offered to refund payments above the capital amount and add statutory 8% interest. It
also offered to remove adverse information about that loan from Mr Cs credit file.
Likely Loans didnt uphold his complaint about loans 2 and 3, and so Mr C referred his
complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator
didnt think Likely Loans was wrong to lend loans 2 and 3 and so didnt recommend that
Mr Cs complaint about those loans should be upheld.
Mr Cs representatives disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to
understand whether the consumer could repay without borrowing further or suffering
significant adverse consequences.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks,
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. A business should also take into account and
react appropriately to what it knew about the consumer at the time it made its lending
decision.
As Likely Loans has already upheld Mr Cs complaint about loan 1, I wont be considering
the lending decision. Ive focussed my decision on the lending of loans 2 and 3.
Loan 2
Loan 2 was taken within three months of Mr C repaying loan1, due to the short space of time
between both loans, I think loans 1 and 2 form part of the same lending chain. It would be
reasonable to conclude that Mr Cs financial circumstances at the time of both loans werent
significantly different.
Likely Loans hasnt given the specific reason as to why it upheld Mr Cs complaint about loan
1 but it has upheld the complaint about that loan. I think that whatever its reasons were,
those were likely still present at the time of loan 2.
In any event, Ive looked at Mr Cs circumstances at the time of loan 2 and I think the results
of Likely Loans checks raised concerns about Mr Cs ability to maintain the repayments on
this loan. Just because Mr C repaid the loan within its term doesnt mean he did so without
suffering adverse financial consequences.
Likely Loans checks showed Mr Cs monthly income at the time of this loan was around
£1,977, his living costs including housing was around £765.25 and his monthly credit
commitments was around £917. Mr C was due to repay around 53%of his income towards
unsecure credit, including the repayment of this loan. At the least Likely Loans should have
taken its checks further to verify some of the information Mr C provided. I think it should have
gone beyond the electronic verification and looked to build a clearer picture of Mr Cs financial 
circumstances.
Mr C has provided copies of his bank statements from around that time and from what I can
see, Mr C was repaying several lenders and his account remained overdrawn for significant
periods around the time of the loan. Bearing in mind Likely Loans checks showed Mr C
would be left with a disposable income of £154 after repaying this loan, I think had it carried
out proportionate checks based on what it knew about Mr C, itd likely have found he couldnt
repay the loan over the term without suffering detriment to his finances and in the
circumstances it shouldnt have lent loan 2. This because further checks will show Mr C was
regularly in need of credit
Loan 3
There was a gap of around 9 months between Mr C repaying loan 2 and borrowing loan,
 I think it would be reasonable to consider this a separate lending chain to the previous two
loans.
At the time, Mr Cs repayment history wasnt concerning to Likely Loans as hed repaid most
of his loan repayments on time. Likely Loans considered his monthly income, expenses and
credit commitments.
The results of those checks showed Mr Cs overall credit commitments had reduced
compared to the time of loan 2. The checks showed he had a monthly income of around
£1,937.18, living costs of around £841.76 and his credit commitments were around £244.
So, after the repayment for this loan, Mr C was left with more than £500 of disposable
income. I think given that the credit search showed Mr Cs finances had improved and hed
be left with sufficient disposable income to afford and sustain the loan repayments
throughout the term.
I think Likely Loans checks went far enough and it was reasonable to lend Mr C this loan in
the circumstances. In conclusion, Likely Loans has upheld Mr Cs complaint about loan 1 and I think it 
shouldnt have lent loan 2. I dont think it was unreasonable to have lent loan 3 in the circumstances.
So, Likely Loans needs to put things right for loans 1 and 2.
The deadline for response to my provisional decision has now passed, Likely Loans didnt 
respond but Mr Cs representatives responded to say loan 3 was also unaffordable taking 
into account Mr Cs bank statements and credit file information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Likely Loans has provided evidence to show it did search Mr Cs credit file before lending 
loan 3, the result of that search suggests Mr C wasnt over indebted (Ive detailed what those 
checks showed in my provisional decision). I think Likely Loans search of Mr Cs credit file 
along with the other checks likely Loans carried out was sufficient in the circumstances on 
this loan.
Likely Loans didnt need to request Mr Cs bank statements before lending loan 3 as such it 
wont have seen the information in Mr Cs bank statement at the time that may have shown 
the loan was unaffordable.
From the reasonable checks it carried out, the loan was affordable for Mr C over the term 
and so I dont think it was wrong for it to lend loan 3.
However, it needs to put things right for loans 1 and 2. It acknowledges it shouldnt have lent 
loan 1 and further checks it ought to have carried out at the time of loan 2 would have shown 
than loan was unaffordable.
Putting things right
To put things right, Likely Loans should do the following.
Refund all interest and charges applied to loans 1 and 2.
Add interest at 8% per year simple on the payments from the date they were paid, if
they were, to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges on both loans.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to take off tax from this interest. Likely Loans must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Oakbrook Finance 
Limited trading as Likely Loans to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman