DRN-3902057
The complaint
Mr B and Mr F are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd (RSA) offered a cash 
settlement instead of completing repairs after they claimed under their policy for fire damage.
Mr B and Mr F had buildings and contents insurance with RSA in joint names. For ease of 
reading, and because he brought the complaint, Ill refer to Mr B throughout my decision.
What happened
In summary, Mr B claimed under his contents and buildings policy after a fire in his home. 
RSA appointed contractors to complete repairs. During the initial attempt at repairs, an 
escape of water caused further damage. RSA advised Mr B to raise a second claim.
From the start of the repairs, Mr B was unhappy with the contractors RSA appointed. 
Eventually, RSA decided to cash settle instead of repair because of the breakdown in 
relationship between Mr B and its contractors. But Mr B was unhappy with its decision. RSA 
asked him to provide quotes for the work using his own contractors or it would go ahead and 
cash settle.
Mr B complained to RSA. It offered him £75 in recognition of some poor decorating, but RSA 
said its attempt to settle the claim had been fair.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because the evidence indicated that RSA had 
made reasonable attempts to settle the claim using its own contractors. She said the cash 
settlement offer was fair based on the evidence available, so our investigator didnt think 
RSA needed to do any more.
Our investigator asked Mr B for his response on a number of occasions, and allowed extra 
time in line with his request, but he didnt respond to her proposed outcome. However, Mr B 
did raise new issues of complaint which arose after he moved back into his home. Our 
investigator explained that the new complaint issues would need to be raised directly with 
RSA in the first instance.
The two original complaints were passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B didnt respond to our investigators view, its not clear what, if anything, he doesnt 
agree with. So, Id like to reassure both Mr B and RSA that Ive considered all the 
information provided.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs and Mr Fs complaint. Theres a lot of 
information in relation to this complaint, so rather than comment on every point, Ill refer to 
the key issues and the evidence which I think best explains the reasons for my decision.
First complaint
In May 2022, RSA issued its first final response to Mr Bs complaint. His complaint was 
about the delays handling his claim and repairing the damage.
Delays
Mr B is unhappy about the time taken to handle his claim and the inconvenience caused 
because he needed to move out of his home.
Ive looked at the timeline of events relating to the claim, as described by both Mr B and 
RSA. Ive also considered the emails and account notes which show the activity during the 
claim handling. Having done so, I cant reasonably say that the evidence shows RSA caused 
any significant or avoidable delays. It is clear, though, that RSA was unable to progress work 
because it needed to wait for Mr B to make decisions. For example, RSA repeatedly asked 
Mr B to confirm his choices for kitchen units, tiles and splashback, appliances, boiler and 
flooring. 
Some of these items, such as the splashback and boiler, were upgrades on what Mr B had 
previously, and RSA explained hed need to pay the difference between like-for-like 
replacements and the upgrade. Although Mr B disputed this point in respect of the boiler, it 
seems he didnt disagree otherwise. But, even at the point of bringing his complaint to this 
service, I note Mr B hadnt informed RSA of all of his choices.
Looking at the time Mr B and Mr F have spent in alternative accommodation, I cant fairly say 
RSA contributed to the need for repeated extensions. Until they told RSA what they wanted 
in terms of repairs and replacement, RSA couldnt progress the work, which resulted in 
delays. So, the extended time in alternative accommodation was outside of RSAs control.
RSA apologised to Mr B for three weeks of delay which it agreed it couldve avoided, and 
paid £75 by way of apology. Given that the evidence persuades me RSA was not 
responsible for the majority of delays, I think thats fair. I wont be asking RSA to do any 
more here.
Second complaint
In October 2022, RSA sent its second final response which addressed the key issues of Mr 
Bs ongoing complaint. Those issues are summarised as follows:
Additional damage
Careless and poor workmanship
Failure to include items beyond economical repair in the claim
Cash settlement
Additional claimsAdditional damage
Mr B was unhappy that he suffered a leak in his kitchen, and his outside tap stopped working 
after RSAs contractors had been in to carry out some preliminary work. He said RSA 
mustve caused the problems. 
RSA confirmed it turned the water off to prevent further damage within the kitchen after the 
leak, which explains why the outside tap didnt work. Once the water was turned back on, 
the outside tap worked again.
In respect of the leak, the evidence indicates that the source was separate to the work RSA 
had done. Therefore, I cant reasonably say RSA caused the leak. 
That said, Ive thought about the impact on Mr B if RSA had caused the leak to his kitchen. I 
accept there wouldve been some additional drying time, and Mr B wouldnt have needed to 
pay an additional excess. I also see that his floor cabinets were damaged. However, before 
the leak Mr B wouldve been required to contribute towards the cost of his undamaged 
kitchen cabinets. After the leak, RSA confirmed it would cover the full cost of the cabinets. 
Therefore, I cant reasonably say that Mr B has suffered a loss because of the leak, so 
theres nothing to put right here.
Careless and poor workmanship
Mr B complained that RSA lost his patio door key, and its standard of decorating was poor.
I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that RSA lost Mr Bs patio door key, although I 
appreciate its not something that would be easy to prove. But Ive accepted that its missing.
RSA looked into the matter for Mr B and said it was pointless sourcing a new key because it 
was already paying to replace the patio doors. Therefore, he wouldve needed new keys 
anyway. That seems fair.
So, Ive thought about any inconvenience it may have caused Mr B. Given that he was living 
in alternative accommodation, and his possessions were either beyond repair or being 
cleaned, I havent identified how the missing key wouldve caused significant inconvenience. 
Therefore, I see no reason to ask RSA to do anything in respect of this matter.
In respect of the poor workmanship, I agree that RSA didnt complete the decorating to a 
standard any reasonable person might expect. The main example referenced by both parties 
is that RSA painted around, but not behind, a free-standing wardrobe. Thats not acceptable 
and I see RSA apologised for its mistake. To put this right, Id have asked RSA to 
redecorate. Its already done that, so theres nothing more for me to require here.
Mr B was also unhappy about the colours RSA used to decorate his home. In the absence of 
contact from Mr B confirming his choices, RSA tried to match the paint to the existing 
colours. That seems a sensible decision. But, when Mr B said he was unhappy with the 
colour, RSA repainted. So, I dont think Mr B suffered a loss that RSA still needs to put right.
Items beyond economical repair (BER)
Mr B is unhappy that RSA didnt include the full list of items which he thinks shouldve been 
declared BER. RSA said some of the items werent damaged, so there was no need to 
include them in the claim.Looking at the evidence, RSA gave a reasonable explanation for not including those items, 
and I also see that it gave Mr B the opportunity to provide a list which he thought more 
accurately reflected the loss. At the time of bringing his complaint to this service, RSA hadnt 
received that list.
Whether or not RSA failed to include some items as BER, I cant hold it responsible for 
failing to consider them when Mr B hasnt said what, exactly, he thinks it missed. If Mr B 
provides details, then Id expect RSA to look into the matter and let Mr B know the outcome. 
Thats what it offered to do, so theres nothing further for me to require here.
Cash settlement
Mr B complains that RSA imposed a cash settlement on him instead of using its contractors 
to complete the repairs.
Looking at the timeline of events, its clear that RSA originally appointed contractors with the 
expectation that it would complete repairs rather than cash settle. But some time later, it 
decided to cash settle because of the clear breakdown in relationship between RSA and Mr 
B. This is demonstrated in the issues Ive already addressed above.
The policy sets out how RSA will settle a claim, as follows:
Our philosophy is to repair or replace lost or damaged property, where we consider it 
appropriate and we have developed a network of contractors, repairers and product 
suppliers dedicated to providing claim solutions.
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but we agree to 
pay our customer a cash settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the amount 
we would have paid our preferred supplier.
So, Im satisfied that RSA was entitled to offer a cash settlement instead of completing the 
repairs. If Mr B had chosen a cash settlement rather than repairs, RSA wouldve been 
entitled to reduce the amount it paid to reflect its own costs. But, as it wasn't his choice, RSA 
gave Mr B the opportunity to provide quotes upon which it could base its offer. Although Ive 
seen Mr Bs notes about his attempts to get quotes, the position is that he didnt provide 
RSA with anything. So, its settlement offer is uplifted from its own base costs to reflect the 
cost to a consumer. I think thats fair.
Overall, I havent seen any evidence which persuades me that RSAs decision to cash settle 
was unfair, and Im satisfied its offer was in line with the policy.
Additional claims
Mr B was unhappy that RSA asked him to make new claims for parts of the damage. 
Ill focus on the escape of water to explain my point. The evidence, as Ive explained above, 
suggests that the leak was unrelated to the damage caused by the fire. Therefore, it was 
reasonable for RSA to ask Mr B to make a new claim under a different peril covered by the 
policy. Each peril covered within the policy attracts its own cover and exclusions, so I 
wouldnt expect RSA to consider escape of water damage with a completely difference 
cause under a claim for fire damage.
I havent seen anything to suggest that RSA treated Mr B unfairly here.Overall, I appreciate Mr B and Mr F mustve suffered inconvenience and distress as a result 
of the fire, and then water damage, which led to them moving into alternative 
accommodation for around 18 months. But, having considered the account of events they 
provided, the photos of damage and repairs, and RSAs account notes, I havent seen 
anything which persuades me RSA caused any significant additional inconvenience, distress 
or avoidable delays to that already caused by the fire.
RSAs offer to cash settle puts Mr B in control of the repairs, materials and colour schemes, 
which I consider fair and reasonable given the apparent breakdown in relationship between 
Mr B and RSAs contractors.
I see no reason to ask RSA to do any more in respect of Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman