DRN-3972752
The complaint
Company S is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt reimburse the money S lost due to 
an authorised push payment scam. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at 
length here. 
Briefly, as I understand it, a fraudster hacked into the email account of a director of S and 
sent several emails to a staff member asking them to make payments, to different payees.  
Six payments were made over a period of ten days, totalling £200,000. The first three 
payments went to two different beneficiary accounts with Bank A. The fourth payment went 
to an account with a building society. The final two payments went to another beneficiary 
account with Bank A. 
HSBC reimbursed S the first four payments. It however did not agree to pay interest on the 
reimbursed sum. It also declined to reimburse the fifth and the sixth payments. The bank 
said that when S attempted to make the fifth payment to a new payee, it called the payer (S 
employee who was authorised to make the payment) and warned them about the risk of 
directors emails being hacked and fraudsters impersonating as directors. The bank said that 
it advised the payer to contact the director, but they still went ahead with the payment. So, it 
shouldnt be held responsible for any loss to S following its warning.
I issued a provisional decision (which forms part of this Decision). I said, in summary:
Company Ss claim isnt eligible to be considered under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model code (the CRM code). This in turn means that I dont have to specifically 
consider whether or not the exceptions under the CRM code applied in this instance. 
HSBC has accepted that it could have done more to help prevent the loss to S in relation 
to the first four transactions, and has reimbursed the sum of £100,000 to S. In the 
circumstances there isnt anything further for me to add.  
As regards paying interest on that sum, the relevant question is the opportunity cost of 
the lost funds to S. In this case, I cannot be certain about the cost to S of being deprived 
of the money because it might have used the funds in a variety of ways. Without any 
compelling reason in this case to depart from our usual approach, I consider it fair and 
reasonable that HSBC pays S simple interest on the sum it reimbursed at 8% p.a. 
In relation to the fifth and sixth payments (totalling £100,000), I am not persuaded that 
HSBC should reimburse them. When S made the fifth payment (for £50,000), HSBC 
intervened and spoke to the payer. The banks agent questioned the payer about the 
payment. On being told that the payment was on the instructions of the director, the 
agent did alert the payer to impersonation scam - where a fraudster pretending to be a 
director instructs payments. The payer however firmly believed that the instructions were 
genuine and asked the bank to go ahead with the payment.
I considered whether, at that time, the banks agent ought to have insisted that the payer 
confirm the payment with the director over the phone. However, the payer did try to 
contact the director earlier in the day (for a different reason) but couldnt. So, I was of the 
view that the payer would most likely have advised HSBC that the director wasnt 
reachable. They would have reiterated that the payment was genuine and requested that 
HSBC go ahead with the payment. So, I didnt think that any banks failure in this regard 
would have made a difference.
In relation to the sixth payment which happened the next day, I noted that HSBC 
intervened and spoke to the same payer. The payer again insisted that the payment was 
genuine. The bank then proceeded to allow the payment. 
After taking everything into account and bearing in mind that the disputed transactions 
werent eligible to be considered under the CRM code, I was of the view that it wouldnt 
be fair and reasonable to ask HSBC to reimburse the fifth and sixth payments.
S had also asked that their legal fees in dealing with this matter be reimbursed. They 
said that they had to resort to legal help due to HSBCs approach in this case and that S 
wouldnt have been able to address our requirements without legal help. I noted that S 
was provided with referral rights to this service by HSBC. Thus, the company could have 
brought the complaint to this service  which is free of charge to them. In the 
circumstances I didnt think it is fair for me to ask HSBC reimburse S the legal fees it 
incurred in pursuing its claim / complaint.
S did not agree with my provisional conclusions. They said, in summary:
They dont accept that they should not receive any reimbursement from HSBC in relation 
to the fifth and sixth transactions.
 
In relation to the fifth transaction, when the payer said that they would email the director 
to confirm the payment, HSBC should have made it clear that it was vital that they call 
the director. Had it done so, the payer would have called the director, and this would 
have had a material effect on preventing the scam. Also, the bank should have picked up 
on the point that if it were too difficult for the director to speak by phone, how was it 
possible for him to email. 
Even if S were to accept the position that the telephone call from HSBC in respect of the 
fifth transaction was enough to have amounted to an Effective Warning, HSBCs 
approach on the sixth transaction was grossly insufficient. There was no warning 
provided at all during HSBCs call with the payer, let alone a warning that can be 
described as effective. 
It is accepted that a phone call was not made by the payer to the director when the fifth 
payment was made and that was in part due to the fact that the fraudster (appearing as 
the director) had represented that he could not speak that day. However, there was no 
such representations made by the director (the fraudster) to the payer on the day the 
sixth payment was made. Further, in the payers emails to the director, they even 
referred to hoping that the director hadnt been hacked or words to that effect. That 
indicates an increased nervousness that, had HSBC provided an Effective Warning in 
relation to the sixth transaction, would more likely than not have prompted a call which 
more likely than not led to discovering the fraud.The pattern of conduct from HSBC created an illusion of comfort to the payer. Because 
HSBC had allowed each preceding transaction to go through without concern, the payer 
was put further under the spell of the scam not only by the fraudster, but by HSBC also. 
Had HSBC specifically told the payer that they should confirm payment instructions with 
the director by telephone, the spell the payer was under would have been broken. 
Also, HSBC could have confirmed the position with a director of the company directly. 
What if, for example, the payer was a fraudulent employee sending the payment to 
themselves. In such a situation it would not have been an Effective Warning to have 
called the fraudster themselves and instead it would have been appropriate to clarify the 
transaction with a director.
HSBC responded to say that it has nothing to add to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not persuaded to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. 
I am thankful to S for providing detailed submissions to support the complaint, all of which I 
have read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact 
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are 
expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision is not to address 
every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
S has made references to HSBC not providing an Effective Warning. As I explained in 
the provisional decision, I dont think that the relevant transactions are eligible to be 
considered under the CRM code. Therefore, some of the considerations specific to the 
CRM code dont apply here  as for example whether HSBC gave Effective Warning as 
defined under the CRM code. 
That said, I have reached my conclusions based on what is in my opinion fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
I remain of the view that when S made the fifth payment, HSBC did warn the payer about 
the risk of a director impersonation scam. However, the payer was quite clear that the 
payment was genuine and asked the bank to proceed.  I also remain of the view that 
even if HSBC had recommended that the payer speak to the director, its more likely that 
the payer would have advised HSBC that the director wasnt reachable and would have 
reiterated that the payment was genuine and requested that HSBC go ahead with the 
payment.
S say that the situation was different when they made the sixth transaction on the next 
day. They say on that day the fraudster (pretending to be the director) made no 
representation that he was unavailable. Therefore, they believe that had HSBC advised 
the payer to call the director and confirm the payment, they would have done so but 
HSBC gave no warning at all. Therefore, they believe that HSBC should reimburse the 
sixth payment.I am not persuaded by this.  On the day of the transaction, it was the payer who first 
emailed the director asking whether the additional £50,000 should be paid that day. 
Given the conversation with the bank the previous day and as the director made no 
representation about not being available that day, the payer could have contacted the 
director over phone to confirm this. But they did not.
In fact, in a subsequent email that day, the payer told the fraudster: will now await the 
usual call from HSBC fraud department! They make you so paranoid so I hope your 
e-mail account hasnt been hacked and that this isnt a huge scam. This suggests to me 
that they had understood HSBCs warning about email intercept scam  in that the 
directors email could be hacked by scammers. But they did not call the director and 
continued to correspond via email. 
As far as HSBCs action in relation to the sixth payment is concerned, the previous day 
the bank spoke to the payer during which it talked about the risk of impersonation scams. 
But the payer was adamant that it was a genuine payment. They said: I do understand. I 
do understand. I think from the tone of the email and the comments he made about 
somebody else in the office  that nobody else would know about it ..it is a genuine .. I 
mean I know it is genuine . I am convinced it is genuine. 
During the conversation, the payer also let it be known that S would be making another 
payment the next day for £50,000. The payer said: And there will be another one of 
these tomorrow. Ill warn you there will be another £50,000 tomorrow I have to pay.
Thus, on the next day, the payment was made to an existing payee and the bank was 
already told by the payer that they would be making the payment that day. Further, when 
the bank called to verify this payment, the payer said: Yes, I made the payment this 
morning. I made a similar one or exactly the same amount yesterday  it is all legitimate 
.. Ive checked it all.. the director told me to do it.. I had .. a conversation with somebody 
yesterday.. it is genuine...
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. But that is not the end of the story. The 
bank also has an ongoing obligation to be alert to various risks in relation to the accounts 
with it. 
Ultimately, it is a matter for the bank as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate.  In this instance, taking 
everything into account, including the conversations the payer had with the bank, I 
consider that HSBC broadly struck that balance. Therefore, I do not consider it fair to ask 
the bank to reimburse the fifth and/or sixth transactions.
S has suggested that HSBC ought to have called a director of the company rather than 
the payer and has referred me to a hypothetical situation where the payer themselves 
could be making unauthorised payments. Firstly, that is not of course what happened 
here and secondly, I dont think there was anything suspicious that ought to have made 
the bank suspect fraud by the payer. So, I am satisfied that HSBC didnt do anything 
wrong in contacting the payer in this case.
In reaching my decision, I have also taken into account the overall outcome in relation to 
this fraud, as there are multiple parties involved here (i.e., HSBC, Bank A and S). The 
relevant banks have borne 75% of the £200,000 that was sent to the fraudster, which 
means the ultimate loss to S is 25%. As I remain of the view that there was contributory negligence on part of S, I consider this a fair and reasonable outcome overall.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. In full and final settlement of the 
complaint, HSBC should:
Pay interest at 8% simple p.a. on the £100,000 it has refunded. Interest should be paid
from the date of transactions to the date of payment of the £100,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman