DRN-1977905
The complaint
Ms M complains that RAC Financial Services Ltd renewed her membership policy without 
notifying her in advance. 
What happened
Ms M first obtained a roadside assistance policy with RAC in 2016, renewing each year. In 
2019, the policy renewed automatically, but Ms M says she was never informed about this, 
only finding out after the renewal had taken place. She complained to RAC, saying shed 
had no time to consider the renewal offer, shop around for a better deal, or cancel the policy. 
RAC responded, advising Ms M that shed signed up to a continuous annual membership, 
renewing automatically, when she took out the policy in 2016. RAC also advised it had sent 
Ms M a renewal three weeks (or so) prior to the renewal date, advising her of the impending 
renewal and the new premium. RAC also advised that Ms M had complained almost one 
month after the 14-day cooling off period expired, and so it wouldnt be upholding her 
complaint. But RAC did agreed to cancel Ms Ms membership from the date of the complaint, 
and a pro-rata refund was offered. 
Unhappy with this, Ms M brought her complaint to us. She said she was planning to sell her 
car at time of the complaint and wanted the policy cancelled back to the renewal date with a 
full refund. However, after reviewing documents provided by RAC, an investigator here was 
satisfied it had notified Ms M of the renewal and didnt uphold her complaint. 
Ms M asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, and so its been passed to 
me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I wont be upholding Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Im aware, having listened to two telephone conversations Ms M had with RAC in October 
2019 (when she raised her complaint), that she was adamant shed not given RAC 
permission to auto-renew her policy each year. RAC have advised that Ms M applied online 
for the policy in 2016, and that auto-renewal was the only option available using that 
method. Ive also seen a copy of RACs August 2016 joining letter to Ms M, which clearly 
states the policy auto-renews each year, with payment being taken by visa debit. So Im 
satisfied that auto-renewal was the agreed method to renew the policy and that RAC took 
reasonable steps to inform Ms M of that.
I now need to consider whether RAC also took reasonable steps to let Ms M know about the 
policy renewal before taking the money from her bank account in August 2019. 
Ive seen that RACs internal system notes list the August 2019 renewal documents. And a 
separate screenshot confirms the correct email address for Ms M. RAC says these records 
show that renewal documents were sent to Ms M on the date in question. However, whilst 
they dont conclusively evidence an email being physically sent to Ms M, Im satisfied these 
show the relevant documents were created and most likely sent to the email address listed 
for Ms M. RAC have confirmed this is how their system records such communications, which 
I accept as a reasonable explanation.
I appreciate Ms M remains adamant the renewal notification email wasnt received. She says 
she checked her email account, including her spam folder, and can find no evidence of the 
RAC renewal email in these accounts. And because these accounts do contain other RAC 
emails, including marketing emails as well as the renewal confirmation email, Ms M thinks 
this supports her belief that RACs email never arrived  otherwise it would be viewable in 
these accounts along with all of the other RAC emails. 
However, Im aware, and appreciate, that Ms Ms primary focus at that time was very much 
on the rehabilitation of a close family relative, and so its possible the email could have been 
missed and then accidentally deleted. I say this because another relevant email RAC sent to 
Ms M  the policy renewed communication on the day the new policy started (at the end of 
August 2019)  doesnt seem to have been noticed until October 2019 when Ms M raised 
her complaint. 
In the first of Ms Ms October 2019 complaint calls, she says twice that the policy renewed 
email was visible in her inbox at the end of August 2019, yet confirms shes only raising the 
complaint with RAC some two months later after checking her bank account. So Im satisfied 
Ms M had evidence of the renewal within the 14-day cooling off period, which would have 
allowed her to cancel the policy within the cooling off period and collect a full refund.  
I dont doubt Ms Ms sincerity, and I appreciate she was dealing with a lot of important family 
matters at the time. But taking all of the above into consideration Im satisfied RAC likely 
notified Ms M of the impending policy renewal, and that it did promptly notify her it had been 
renewed - such that shed have been able to cancel the policy and obtain a full refund had 
she noticed the policy renewed email. And so, I wont be asking RAC to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman