DRN-3034907
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vanquis Bank Limited has added interest to his account balance despite
being in prison and has refused to discuss a settlement figure.
What happened
Mr S says he went into prison in August 2019 and his father told Vanquis that. He says
Vanquis continued to add interest and charges to his account balance which was unfair. Mr
S says his father asked Vanquis to stop the interest and charges, but it wouldnt do so. And
says his father asked Vanquis to consider a settlement offer but it said it could only speak to
him about it. Mr S says he is concerned that his debt is increasing but is not able to repay it.
Vanquis says it hasnt made a mistake and has applied interest and charges correctly and in
line with the account terms and conditions. It says it could only agree a repayment plan or
discuss a settlement amount with Mr S himself and not his father. Vanquis says it sold the
account in July 2020.
Mr S brought his complaint to is and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The
investigator thought interest and charges were applied in line with agreed account terms and
conditions and thought Vanquis was reasonably entitled to decide it wished to discuss
matters with Mr S himself.
Mr S doesnt accept that view.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said I thought the complaint should be upheld in part.
I looked at Vanquiss records and I was satisfied it was aware that in August 2019 Mr S
was in prison. I accepted that in its self wouldnt mean the credit card agreement would end 
but I thought it ought to be obvious to Vanquis at that stage Mr S would have difficulties 
making repayments from prison,
I looked at Mr Ss account statements and could see that from some time before
August 2019 he was unable to make required payments but at that stage interest wasnt
being applied. So, I thought Vanquis ought reasonably to have been aware by August 2019 
that there were payments not being made and that Mr S was now in prison.
I could see that Vanquis started applying interest and charges again from about December
2019 and that Mr S didnt make any required payments until the account was sold in July
2020. I asked Vanquis to confirm the default date and I said I couldnt see that it told me, but 
I could see it applied interest until July 2020 which suggests that is the default date.
I said there was no dispute Mr Ss father told Vanquis in around February 2020 that his son 
had received a lengthy custodial sentence following his remand in custody the previous year.
I said the key issue is the default date and when it ought reasonably to have been obvious to
Vanquis the relationship between it and Mr S had broken down. The Information
Commissioners Office (ICO) suggests that should be between three and six months of
arrears. I didnt think Mr S made any payments from early 2019 until the account was sold in
July 2020. I also thought it clear that Vanquis knew about Mr Ss personal circumstances 
and that it unlikely he would be able to make required payments. So, I didnt think Vanquis 
acted fairly by adding interest and charges to the account balance for as long as it did.
Vanquis started adding interest again in December 2019. And my provisional view was that 
by February 2020 it ought reasonably to have been obvious the relationship between it and 
Mr S had broken down following about three months of further missed payments in addition 
to the months of payments not being made.
I thought provisionally that Vanquis should remove any interest and charges from Mr Ss
account from February 2020 and deduct that amount from the overall balance. I also thought 
it should backdate the default date to February 2020.
I appreciated Mr S says Vanquis ought to have been able to discuss a settlement figure with
his father, but I didnt think it acted unfairly by insisting it spoke to Mr S personally about 
such matters. I dont know why Vanquis didnt wish to discuss such an option but said that 
was up to it to decide when exercising its commercial judgement.
Overall my provisional view was that I upheld this complaint in part. I also made clear that I
thought Mr Ss father has done his best to update Vanquis about his sons position and that 
it was also clear that Mr S himself had not ignored the position. But had done what he could, 
in difficult circumstances, to update Vanquis.
Mr S or Vanquis do not wish to add anything further to what they have previously told us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view I reached in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. 
Putting things right
Vanquis should backdate the default date to February 2020 and refund any charges, interest 
or fees from that date and deduct them from the overall balance owed by Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Vanquis Bank Limited to 
backdate the default date to February 2020 and update the Credit Reference Agencies. I 
also order it to refund any charges, fees or interest applied to the account from that date and 
deduct them from the balance owed by Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman