DRN-2799653
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vitality Corporate Services Limited (trading as VitalityLife) declined his 
application for life cover due to his medical history. He says this was medical discrimination. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In March 2020 Mr H applied for life cover with VitalityLife through an independent financial 
adviser. Mr H disclosed that in October 2018 hed suffered from a stroke but had fully 
recovered. VitalityLife contacted Mr Hs GP requesting medical information. 
VitalityLife considered the medical information and, on 18 May 2020, wrote to Mr H informing 
him that they were unable to offer cover. VitalityLife sent a letter to Mr Hs GP explaining the 
reason for the application being declined was due to his history of a lacunar stroke with 
ongoing residual functional hemiparesis.
Mr H complained to VitalityLife about his application being declined due to him suffering from 
a stroke. He said their decision was medical discrimination. 
VitalityLife didnt uphold the complaint. In short, they said:
When underwriting an application for cover they need to consider the risks 
associated with any given medical condition over of the entire life of the policy and 
not only any immediate medical concerns. But, while a doctor can review a medical 
condition on an ongoing basis, they can only consider this risk once - at the 
underwriting stage of the application. This process isnt intended to inconvenience or 
discriminate but to ensure the medical concerns are appropriately dealt with. 
The underwriting process allows them to classify applicants according to their degree 
of insurability so that, if cover can be offered, the appropriate premiums are charged 
and the corrects terms offered. 
Their head of underwriting has confirmed that they correctly declined the application 
for cover as the medical risk is currently un-insurable according to their underwriting 
philosophy. As, when assessing Mr Hs application in May 2020, the total rating was 
+200% which exceeds their maximum rating allowed. 
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but he 
didnt think VitalityLife had acted unfairly or discriminated against Mr H. He said he didnt 
think it was unreasonable for VitalityLife to take Mr Hs medical information into 
consideration. And, having considered both this and VitalityLifes underwriting criteria, he 
was satisfied that no cover was available to him. Our investigator noted Mr Hs strength of 
feeling about the matter but he explained that insurance companies can assess applications 
differently, which is at their discretion and not something we can interfere with. 
Mr H disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr H feels very strongly about VitalityLifes decision to decline his application 
for life cover. And Id like to reassure Mr H that Ive taken everything hes said in to 
consideration when deciding his complaint. But, while I know this isnt the outcome Mr H is 
hoping for, I dont think VitalityLife has acted unfairly or discriminated again him. Ill explain 
why.
Insurers consider the associated risks when underwriting applications for cover. This is 
because, if an insurer is prepared to offer cover, the premium payable is based on the risk of 
having to pay out on the policy. In relation to an application for life insurance, the associated 
risks will typically include a persons lifestyle and health (medical) history. And a stroke is a 
relevant health consideration for an insurer when determining that level of risk. 
I appreciate Mr H has said that he has made a full recovery from the stroke he suffered in 
2018. But an insurer, as per above, can decide on what basis they are willing to offer cover 
(if at all). This is commonly known as their underwriting criteria. Mr H was assessed by 
VitalityLife against this criteria  like any other applicant - based on the information he 
provided and which they obtained from his GP. And they declined Mr Hs application due to 
the lacunar stroke and ongoing residual functional hemiparesis. Ive reviewed this and Im 
satisfied that VitalityLife correctly assessed his application for cover in line with their 
underwriting criteria. 
I understand Mr H has said he had no control over the stroke happening, whereas if he was 
being judged on drug use or smoking that would be different. While that may be true, 
VitalityLife assessed the risk of having to pay out on the policy and this isnt restricted to 
simply what an applicant can control. Instead, it is reasonable for an insurer to consider a 
persons health history, such as a stroke, when determining that of level of risk. And while I 
know Mr H disagrees, an insurer can apply their commercial judgment when deciding the 
level of risk they are willing to accept. In this case, VitalityLife werent prepared to offer cover 
to Mr H.
I appreciate how strongly Mr H feels about this his stroke being considered by VitalityLife 
and it being the reason for his application being declined. But the fact someone is declined 
cover due to them having suffered, of suffering from, a health issue is not evidence that 
there has been discrimination. It follows that for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
VitalityLife acted unfairly or discriminated against Mr H by declining his application for cover. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman