DRN-3489811
The complaint
Mr T complains about the suitability of the advice provided by D C Financial Limited (D C
Financial) in July 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the British Steel
Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension.
Mr T is represented in this complaint by a law firm (Representative A).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 1 March 2022, in which I set out the
background and my provisional findings. Ive repeated what I said here:
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel) announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their
safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) 
the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide benefits to members of defined benefits
pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent.
Mr T was concerned what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of his
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. In February 2017, he met an adviser from D C Financial.
The adviser completed a fact find document and risk profile assessment in respect of Mr T.
D C Financial said the purpose of the meeting was to discuss, in generic terms only, the
advantages and disadvantages of the BSPS, PPF and pension transfer options. A personal
recommendation wasnt provided by D C Financial at that meeting.
On 31 March 2017, Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement
(RAA) had been agreed. Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and
sponsor a new defined benefits pension scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions
relating to funding and size being satisfied (the RAA was subsequently approved by the
Pensions Regulator in August 2017 and the BSPS2 set up in April 2018).
Mr T returned to D C Financial for a personal recommendation on what he should do. It
obtained details of his safeguarded benefits. As at June 2017, these were as follows:
He had accrued 38 years and 4 months qualifying service between 17 November 
1978 and 31 March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was a safeguarded benefit defined by reference to his
final salary, pensionable service and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving
the scheme on 31 March 2017, his annual scheme pension was £27,681.76;
The scheme pension comprised several elements, each part of which would be
revalued by a prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age
of 65 and, once in payment, would escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at 55 and a 18% reduction at 60;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension at 65 was £34,937 and at 60 was
£25,106;
On death before retirement, a refund of contributions of £87,076.46 plus interest at
3% per year compound and a 50% spouses pension would be provided  after
retirement, a potential lump sum equivalent to his remaining annual pension between
the date of death and five years after the date of retirement and a 50% spouses
pension thereafter calculated as if no tax-free cash was taken by Mr T at retirement;
The provision of a dependants allowance for any qualifying dependants calculated
as five sixths of the spouse's pension with this amount being shared between
dependants; and
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £670,945.41
which had been reduced by 8% due to the BSPS being in deficit (the transfer value
was subsequently increased to £692,824.06 following a cash injection into the BSPS
by Tata Steel).
D C Financial recorded the following information about Mr T and his partners circumstances:
He was 55, unmarried, in good health and employed by Tata Steel on a gross annual
salary of about £45,000;
His partner was 54, in good health and was employed in two part-time roles
generating a combined gross annual salary of about £12,000;
They had three children aged between 20 and 23;
Their assets totalled £80,800 which comprised their jointly owned home valued at
£80,000 and cash savings of about £800;
Their liabilities totalled about £27,400 which comprised an outstanding repayment
mortgage of about £22,400 on their jointly owned home which was due to be repaid
in 2025 (when Mr T would be 63 and his partner 62), a personal loan of about £4,400
due to be repaid in 2020 and credit card debt of about £600;
Their joint net income covered outgoings with monthly surplus disposable income of 
about £1,000;
Through his employment, he had life cover equivalent to 5 times his salary if he died
while in service. He and his partner didnt have any other life cover;
In addition to his safeguarded benefits, he was building up retirement benefits in the
Tata Steel defined contribution pension scheme and had been since April 2017  heand Tata Steel were, in total, contributing 26% of his pensionable salary into his plan
(this included an element of salary sacrifice);
His partner didnt have any private or occupational pension savings in her name;
He planned to retire at 60 while his partner planned to retire at her State Pension Age
of 67 but both were unsure of their estimated retirement income needs;
They were both on course to receive their full State pensions at 67; and
He had a moderate risk profile of 5 on a scale of 1 to 10 where 1 was no risk and
10 high risk.
D C Financials recommendation to Mr T
In July 2017, D C Financial issued its suitability report to Mr T. The suitability report stated
that Mr T had the following objectives and wanted to transfer to a personal pension to
achieve these, as follows:
1. You wish to access £100,000 tax free cash from your pension which you will use
to pay off your mortgage and an outstanding loan [which totalled about £26,800]. You
would also like to purchase a shared property in [overseas] as you would like to retire
there in the future, and do some home improvements. The remainder of the tax free
cash will remain invested.
2. You are uncertain of the future of the scheme and you want control of your own
pension fund.
3. You are concerned of the BSPS entering the Pension Protection Fund, and losing
the flexibility of accessing your fund.
4. To take any tax free cash now, you would have to start taking an income from the
British Steel Pension Scheme. Penalties are imposed by the BSPS for accessing
benefits before the normal scheme retirement age of 65.
5. The inflexible death benefits concern you after your death, the pension ceases.
You feel it is important to be able to pass on any unused pension fund to your partner
and children.
The suitability report also stated that Mr T planned to retire at 60 and his retirement income
need at that time would be as follows:
Your required level of income in retirement is to be around £24,125 per annum gross
(£24,125 is a withdrawal of 4.22% on £570,945 (amount left after the £100,000 tax
free cash is taken off)). The withdrawal rate can be reduced when your state pension
commences at age 67. Your current State Pension is estimated at £6,217.64 per
annum, you need further years of National Insurance contributions to receive the full
state pension. The State Pension will provide a secure and inflation proofed income
from your state pension age.
Critical yield
D C Financial calculated the following critical yield figures based on a transfer value of
£670,945.41 being invested in a personal pension. This showed the average annualinvestment return required by the personal pension to provide benefits of equal value to
either the BSPS or PPF:
At age 60 based
on a full pensionAt age 60 based
on a reduced
pension and
maximum tax-free
cashAt age 65 
based
on a full 
pensionAt age 65 based
on a reduced
pension and
maximum tax-free
cash
BSPS 11.25% Not calculated 6.71% Not calculated
PPF Not calculated Not calculated 2.02% 1.41%
After setting out in the suitability report the advantages and disadvantages of a pension
transfer compared to retaining safeguarded benefits, D C Financial recommended that Mr T
transfer to a personal pension to achieve his objectives.
Mr T accepted the recommendation in July 2017. While waiting for the transfer to be
completed, Mr T requested, without consultation with D C Financial, that it arrange for the
maximum tax-free cash be paid to him once the transfer had completed because he had
found a more expensive property overseas.
On 3 October 2017, the transfer was completed. The transfer value of £692,824.06 was
invested in a new personal pension. In line with Mr Ts instruction, this was immediately and
fully crystallised to enable him to withdraw the maximum tax-free cash of £173,206 (rather
than the figure of £100,000, as originally intended and upon which D C Financials
recommendation was based). The balance of the crystallised money remained in the
personal pension and invested across different funds to provide taxable income to Mr T at a
later date.
D C Financials initial adviser charge of £8,000 was deducted from the personal pension
fund value. In addition, the total ongoing annual charge was as follows:
Adviser charge  1.00%
Product charge  0.25%
Fund charges across recommended funds  these ranged from 0.63% to 1.25%
Therefore, the total ongoing annual charge would be somewhere between 1.88% and 2.5%
depending on the relative values of the underlying investment funds.
This complaint
In October 2019, Representative A, on behalf of Mr T, complained to D C Financial about the
suitability of the pension transfer advice it provided in July 2017. Its position can be
summarised as follows:
In May 2016, the trustees of the BSPS indicated that the BSPS2 would provide 
greater benefits than the PPF and only marginally less generous benefits than the
BSPS. This information was available to D C Financial at the time of its
recommendation to Mr T;
Mr T had heard worrying rumours about the steelworks and the security of his
safeguarded benefits. Everything he had heard about the PPF and a potential
successor scheme, the BSPS2, was very negative;
He was unsure what to do so sought advice from D C Financial. It made no effort toassuage his concerns. Instead, it advised him to opt-out of the BSPS and to transfer
the value of his safeguarded benefits to a personal pension rather than the PPF or
BSPS2. It allowed him to think that a transfer to either the PPF or BSPS2 would be a
poor outcome;
His safeguarded benefits offered guaranteed income and represented most of his
retirement provision meaning hed be heavily reliant on it to provide retirement
income. He doesnt recall D C Financial highlighting the potential risks of transferring
out of the BSPS. The adviser gave him the impression that he could retire at 60 and
that this would be sustainable due to the size of the transfer value. There wasnt any
mention of some of the key risks he now faces with his pension  investment risk,
longevity risk and inflation risk;
There wasnt any discussion about the retirement provision he was building up in his
Tata Steel defined contribution plan and how this could help meet his objectives but,
in any event, this didnt offer guaranteed benefits like the BSPS.
He was, and still is, in good health and so there wasnt any reason to think he
wouldnt reach or even exceed his average life expectancy;
While he had death in service benefits of six times his salary through his employment
with Tata Steel, there wasnt any discussion about how separate life cover could
meet his death benefit objective despite D C Financial being aware he had
substantial monthly surplus disposable income available to pay for this;
D C Financial made no effort to establish whether Mr T and his partner intended to
get married to secure the spouses pension available under the PPF or BSPS2.
Rather, it simply allowed Mr T to transfer without exploring all the possibilities and
options;
He didnt understand how valuable safeguarded benefits were until long after he
transferred out of the BSPS. He now knows that had he transferred to either the PPF
or BSPS2, he wouldnt have to worry about the markets, inflation or the charges he
now faces through the personal pension. Rather, hed have peace of mind and a
guaranteed, escalating income for life without the costs and charges hes now
paying;
He cannot recall completing a risk profile or agreeing to the moderate risk profile
determined by D C financial. Hes not a sophisticated investor and didnt want to take
any significant risks with his pension;
He was encouraged to believe that hed be better off if he transferred, not worse off.
He wasnt made aware of the level of benefits he was likely to receive from the
personal pension or by how much his fund would grow after charges. Due to his
wider financial situation including limited other savings and investments, he didnt 
have the capacity to accept the risks associated with the pension transfer;
He didnt have any specific objectives other than to protect the benefits he had built
up. D C Financials records made it look like he was obsessed with purchasing a 
property overseas when he wasnt. It was true that he wanted to purchase a property
but hed always planned to do that when he retired and wouldve waited if he was told
that was the suitable thing to do;Like most people he was interested in retiring early if he could but didnt know if this
was possible or whether it would be a good idea. There wasnt any discussion about
his retirement income needs and so hes unsure how D C Financial determined that
his gross annual income need from 60 was £24,125. The adviser persuaded him that
it was a no-brainer to transfer out because he could achieve all his objectives risk-
free. But the adviser failed to explain to Mr T what he couldve received from the PPF
or BSPS2 at 60 and so he transferred from an uninformed position because he didnt
know all the important facts;
He didnt recall being shown the suitability report issued to him by D C Financial at
the time. But having read a copy as part of making this complaint, he considered it
full of technical language that he didnt understand. The information he recalled
receiving at the time seemed to suggest that even if he took out a lump sum and a
monthly income, hed still end up with more money than he started with;
Until he made this complaint he didnt realise his revalued annual scheme pension at
65 was £34,937 under the BSPS and £30,121 under the PPF. The critical yields
applicable to his case werent explained to him;
The transfer value paid represented poor value for money because it was less than
20 times his revalued BSPS scheme pension at 65. He felt this ought to have been a
red flag to D C Financial that a pension transfer was unsuitable; and
D C Financial failed to adhere to several regulatory requirements including COBS
4.2.1(1) R, COBS 9.2.1(1) R, COBS 9.2.1(2) R), COBS 9.2.2 R and COBS 19.1.
To put things right, Representative A requested D C Financial to pay redress to Mr T on the 
basis that he instead transferred to the BSPS2 and not a personal pension.
D C Financials response to Mr Ts complaint
D C Financial didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint because it was satisfied that its advice to
transfer to the personal pension was suitable. Its position can be summarised as follows:
The basis of Mr Ts complaint, as set out by Representative A, contained several 
inaccuracies and isnt a true reflection of the advice, process or service it provided to 
Mr T. The complaint submitted was generic and based on a narrative Representative 
A had pursued in the financial press and on social media about other BSPS 
members negative experiences;
Contrary to Representative As assertion, it didnt advise Mr T to opt-out of the BSPS 
on 31 March 2017. Rather, he left the BSPS on that date because it had closed to 
further benefit accrual;
Its advice was tailored to Mr Ts personal circumstances, considering his current and 
future plans, needs and objectives. It wasnt a rushed process. Rather, meetings and 
correspondence took place over several months, meaning Mr T had plenty of time to 
reflect and consider his options. He expressed satisfaction with its advice at every 
stage of the process, including at subsequent annual review meetings, also 
recommended D C Financial to colleagues and retains D C Financial as his financial 
adviser. So it was surprised to receive this complaint;
Mr T was very knowledgeable about the BSPS and his entitlements, including the 
lack of a spouses pension to his unmarried partner. He wasnt interested in the reduction of his benefits under a new scheme. At their initial meeting in                          
February 2017, Mr T had already made his mind up to transfer out of the BSPS due 
to his distrust of Tata Steel and his concerns about the value of his safeguarded 
benefits being transferred to the PPF. The situation with Tata Steel was 
unprecedented. With so much uncertainty surrounding the BSPS and his future 
employment, Mr T felt more comfortable with his pension benefits being under his 
control in a personal pension;
His retirement plan involved retiring overseas at 60 and receiving gross annual 
income of £24,125. In preparation of this, he had decided that he required an 
immediate lump sum of £100,000 to cover the cost of purchasing a property 
overseas and to repay his debts which would immediately reduce monthly outgoings 
by £655. He wanted to ensure that all major property expenses, purchase and set up 
costs were taken care of while still earning his salary from Tata Steel. Mr T saw the 
ability to access partial tax-free cash at 55 as an opportunity to achieve his retirement 
objectives since it would enable him to spend time overseas during periods off work 
during the five-year period up to 60 as part of his retirement preparations. The idea of 
being debt free was also very appealing to Mr T and met one of his objectives. He 
wasnt prepared to wait one year, let alone five or 10 years, to complete the property 
purchase. The only viable option to meet his objectives was a pension transfer to a 
personal pension;
Contrary to Representative As view, details about the BSPS2 werent known at the 
time of its advice in July 2017 so it couldnt consider that option in formulating it 
recommendation. The potential establishment of the BSPS2 wasnt known until the 
Time to Choose exercise was completed in December 2017 which was after its 
recommendation in July 2017. Therefore, it could only consider the BSPS, PPF and 
pension transfer to a personal pension as the range of viable options. In its opinion, 
neither the BSPS nor PPF wouldve met Mr Ts objectives, meaning a transfer to a 
personal pension was the only option;
Transferring to the PPF wouldve meant Mr T wasnt able to meet his retirement 
objectives to purchase a property overseas as soon as possible, to retire at 60, and 
then be in receipt of gross annual income of £24,125. If Mr T had transferred to the 
PPF he wouldve suffered a 10% reduction compared to the scheme pension payable 
by the BSPS. This would be reduced further if he accessed benefits at 60 in line with 
his objective. Furthermore, 48.40% of his pension income wouldnt increase in 
payment [in respect of service before 6 April 1997] and therefore wouldnt be 
protected against inflation. Had Mr T transferred to the PPF and at 60 taken the 
projected tax-free cash of £131,953 and a reduced annual pension of £19,775, hed 
need to live a number of years beyond his life expectancy to receive an amount 
equivalent to the transfer value of £692,824.06 paid by the BSPS when he was 
concerned that he had a reduced life expectancy. Transferring to the PPF 
guaranteed that Mr T couldnt meet his objectives  hed need to work longer, accept 
a retirement income below his gross annual income need of £24,125 and delay or 
cancel his plans to purchase a property overseas. Furthermore, since Mr T was 
unmarried, the PPF wouldnt pay a spouses pension to his partner and so offered no 
security to her;
In its view, since the BSPS was closing, the critical yield figures for the PPF were 
more relevant for considering required investment returns. On the basis Mr T took the 
maximum tax-free cash, the critical yield from a personal pension to match the PPF 
at age 65 was 1.41% and likely achievable;Contrary to Representative As claim, Mr Ts target gross annual income figure of 
£24,125 wasnt fabricated but instead based on an analysis of his estimate outgoings 
in retirement. Its retirement income modelling showed that Mr Ts gross annual 
income need of £24,125 from 60 was sustainable from the recommended personal 
pension during his expected lifetime. This considered the projected inflation-proofed 
State pension payable from 67 and money built up in the Tata Steel defined 
contribution pension plan at different stages in retirement, meaning hed draw more 
income from the personal pension in the early years and less in later years;
Accessing tax-free cash and flexible or no income wasnt available under the BSPS 
or PPF. Taking income from the BSPS of PPF before 65 wouldve required Mr T to 
draw actuarily reduced taxable income that wasnt required. And due to his employed 
earnings, most of the pension income wouldve been taxed at the higher rate of 40% 
until he retired at 60;
Mr T was of the view that due to the nature of his job working in heavy industry for 
nearly 40 years, he had a reduced life expectancy. He was keen to ensure his 
pension benefits wouldnt be lost on death and that the full value of his safeguarded 
benefits be utilised with flexible options available to his beneficiaries. He was 
concerned about providing for his partner who didnt have any personal or 
occupational pension savings in her name and, since they were unmarried, thought 
that she wouldnt be entitled to a spouses pension under the BSPS or PPF. So he 
viewed a transfer to a personal pension as an opportunity to provide long term 
security for his partner. By transferring, in day one, death benefits increased from 
£87,076.46 [value of refund of contributions payable by the BSPS on death before 
retirement] to £684,824.06 [value of personal pension immediately following the 
pension transfer after D C Financials initial adviser charge of £8,000 was deducted]. 
Life cover was discussed with Mr T but he rejected it as an option because of the 
likely cost and that he didnt want to start another financial product. Despite knowing 
the lack of financial protection for his partner, Mr T never arranged life cover 
protection to compensate for lack of a spouses pension and still wasnt interested 
when it was discussed. The option of a pension transfer provided a definitive solution 
to the death benefit objective;
Through his employment, Mr T had life cover equivalent to 4 times his salary if he 
died while in service and not 6 times his salary, as stated by Representative A; 
A partial transfer wasnt an option under the BSPS. And if the BSPS was transferred 
to the PPF then the opportunity for a pension transfer in the future would be lost;
Contrary to Representative As claim that Mr T didnt recall seeing the suitability 
report, he in fact signed it to confirm he understood and agreed with the advice to 
transfer. It also provided Mr T with a list of advantages and disadvantages of 
maintaining safeguarded benefits compared to transferring to a personal pension, so 
he made the decision to transfer from an informed position in the knowledge of the 
range of risks associated with both options including the loss of guaranteed benefits;
Between February and June 2017, the transfer value increased from £392,800 to 
£692,824.06  it acted in Mr Ts best interests by ensuring that the pension transfer 
didnt complete until he received the highest transfer value offered; and 
Since the transfer, Mr T had withdrawn at least £264,174 from his personal pension, 
something he wouldnt have been able to do through the BSPS or PPF. But he 
withdrew more money than was planned for including taking the maximum tax-free cash and several taxable withdrawals against its advice. Mr T was warned about this, 
the loss of his personal allowance, triggering of the Money Purchase Annual 
Allowance and that hed be jeopardising his standard of living in retirement, but he 
decided to act against its advice. It didnt think Mr T wouldve made this complaint 
had he followed his original retirement plans. It believes he made this complaint to 
recoup some of the money it believes he spent recklessly since the pension transfer 
under his own instruction.
Our investigators assessment
Our investigator thought that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. His findings can be
summarised as follows:
Mr Ts safeguarded benefits amounted to 38 years and 4 months pensionable
service and so represented most of his retirement provision. He was heavily reliant
on the value of these benefits to provide secure retirement income;
While Mr T was building up additional retirement provision in his Tata Steel defined
contribution pension plan, it was the case that he had limited other investments and
savings upon which he could rely to support his desired standard of living in
retirement. This meant he had a very low capacity for loss to absorb financial loss in
connection with his safeguarded benefits;
Prior to meeting D C Financial, Mr T hadnt previously obtained financial advice and
had no experience of investing and managing significant sums of money. So it
wouldve been difficult for him to understand and manage the risks associated with
investing the transfer value of £692,824.06, which was more than eight times the
value of his home, to meet his income needs throughout retirement;
The critical yield figure of 11.25% per year on transfer to a personal pension (based
on Mr T taking benefits at 60, in line with his recorded early retirement objective) was
likely unachievable and inconsistent with his moderate risk profile. The required rate
of investment growth was significantly higher than the relevant discount rate of 3.0%
per year published by this service and the FCA's projection rates for pensions. As a
result, he concluded that the pension transfer would likely lead to Mr T receiving
substantially lower retirement benefits compared to the BSPS;
While D C Financial acknowledged in its suitability report that the critical yield was
unlikely to be achieved, it didnt explain the implications of this to Mr T. The advice
was geared towards providing a gross annual income of £24,125 but it was unclear
how this figure was determined because the fact find document noted that Mr T was
unsure of the estimated level of retirement income he required. The figure of £24,125
wasnt indexed against inflation in D C Financials cashflow modelling so it was
unclear how it could continue to meet Mr Ts living costs throughout retirement. This
contrasted with the BSPS and PPF options which would offer escalation in payment
and therefore provide some protection against inflation;
He wasnt convinced Mr Ts various objectives for transferring including early
retirement, purchasing an overseas property, repaying debt, covering the cost of
immediate home improvements, obtaining control, concerns about his continuing
employment, avoiding the PPF and changing the format of death benefits were
sufficient to justify relinquishing his safeguarded benefits or that there was an
exceptional reason that superseded the general suitability considerations. He
therefore concluded that the pension transfer was unsuitable because it was likelyMr T would be worse off by transferring;
He thought that D C Financial misinformed Mr T about the benefits payable by the
BSPS at 65. This was because in its suitability report it incorrectly presented Mr Ts
revalued BSPS pension at 65 as £27,681.76 when that was the figure when he left
the scheme at 55 on 31 March 2017. As stated, in the Transfer Value Analysis
System (TVAS) report, with revaluation, the future BSPS pension at 65 was
estimated to be £34,937. The investigator stated that the suitability report didnt set
out the estimated future benefits of the BSPS and PPF and so didnt correctly inform
Mr T of what he was relinquishing by transferring;
In addition, the critical yield at 60 on transfer to the PPF wasnt disclosed in the
suitability report to enable Mr T to compare it with the figure of 11.25% for the
personal pension option. This meant Mr T made the decision to transfer from an
uninformed position. Overall, he wasnt satisfied that D C Financial provided a
balanced assessment of the PPF option to Mr T;
In his opinion, Mr T couldnt afford to take benefits earlier than 60 and maintain his
lifestyle in retirement and so his expectations around this and his other objectives,
such as purchasing a property overseas, shouldve been managed by D C Financial.
He said he wasnt persuaded that Mr T wouldve insisted to proceed against advice
had he been provided a suitable recommendation; and
D C Financial ought to have advised Mr T to maintain his safeguarded benefits
because of the valuable guarantees it offered.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that D C Financial carry out a 
redress calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis 
that Mr T maintained his benefits in the BSPS (which was ultimately transferred to 
the PPF) and would be a 20% income tax payer in retirement. In addition, he 
recommended that D C Financial pay Mr T £300 for the upset caused by the transfer 
and the expectation that hell be worse off in retirement.
D C Financials response to our investigators assessment
D C Financial didnt accept our investigators assessment that its recommendation was
unsuitable. But, to bring this complaint to a conclusion, it commissioned an independent
actuary to undertake a redress calculation. This showed that, as at 12 November 2020, Mr T
hadnt suffered a financial loss. Representative A requested further details about the loss
assessment to satisfy itself that the no loss outcome was correct. This complaint was
referred to me for review because D C Financial was unable to provide the information
requested by Representative A in the format it wanted.
I requested further details from D C Financial about the loss assessment carried out by the
independent actuary on 12 November 2020. In response to my request, D C Financial
appointed a legal firm to represent it (Representative B) which provided substantial
comments for my consideration, which essentially repeated the submissions previously
provided by D C Financial.
Representative B also provided the additional information I requested about the loss
assessment calculation. The actuarys report stated that the loss had been carried out in line
with the pension review methodology, as amended by the FCA in October 2017. The
calculation showed that the capitalised value of Mr Ts personal pension was £759,362.44,which comprised £433,028.41 remaining money in the personal pension and risk adjusted
withdrawals of £326,334.03. In arriving at the risk adjusted figure of £326,334.03, the actuary
used the FTSE UK Private Investor Income Index as a proxy growth rate applied to the
actual withdrawals of £289,174.01 Mr T had taken from the personal pension up to the date
of the loss assessment. Conversely, the equivalent capitalised value of Mr Ts benefits at the
same date, had he instead transferred to BSPS2, was £716,032.58. So the actuary
concluded that Mr T hadnt suffered a financial loss. Representative B confirmed that when
carrying out the loss assessment the actuary considered the potential loss on the most
beneficial basis on the assumption Mr T was married and transferred to the BSPS2, even
though he was unmarried and the BSPS2 wasnt a viable option at the time of D C
Financials recommendation.
Before making my final decision, Representative B requested that I hold an oral hearing with
the parties to scrutinise Mr Ts version of events and the position put forward by
Representative A regarding the basis of this complaint.
I arranged for a copy of the submissions sent by Representative B, including the additional
information about the loss assessment, to be provided to Representative A to give it the
opportunity to comment. It replied that it didnt have anything to add at that stage but
requested the opportunity to do so in the future if I was minded to not uphold Mr Ts
complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach
my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Both parties to this complaint have submitted substantial comments and evidence for my
consideration. Ive considered all the evidence afresh including both parties most recent
submissions. Id like to make clear that the purpose of this decision isnt to address every
point raised by the parties. So, if I havent commented on any specific point, its because I
dont believe it affects what I think is the right outcome.
Request for an oral hearing
Representative B requested that I hold an oral hearing with the parties to scrutinise Mr Ts
version of events and the position put forward by Representative A regarding the basis of
this complaint. I dont think this is necessary.
Oral hearings arent designed for the parties to plead their case or to cross-examine the
other party  theyre only granted by an ombudsman if they think it will help them get to the
bottom of what happened and to ultimately make a decision. In this case, I dont think a
hearing is necessary because Im satisfied that theres sufficient documentary evidence
already provided by the parties to enable me to reach a fair and reasonable decision.
But if either party wishes to make additional verbal submissions, it may do so to the
investigator, or by leaving a voicemail message with the investigator for my attention.The genesis of this complaint
D C Financial said its surprised that Mr T complained because he expressed satisfaction
with its advice at every stage of the process, including at subsequent annual review
meetings, also recommended it to colleagues and retains it as his financial adviser. It said
that Mr T only made this complaint to recoup some of the money it believes hes spent since
the pension transfer.
There may be any number of reasons why Mr T made this complaint. In recent years the
FCA identified that many steelworkers received unsuitable pension transfer advice and may
have made poor financial choices, losing significant sums of money as a result. It therefore
wrote to individuals, like Mr T, who transferred out of the BSPS to encourage them to revisit
the advice that they received and to complain if they had concerns. The fact that Mr T made
this complaint doesnt mean its without merit, as I think is implied by D C Financial, or that
hes acted unreasonably. D C Financial will, I hope, agree that, regardless of how his
concerns materialised, Mr T is entitled to complain about the advice it provided if hes
concerned it was unsuitable.
Ill now go on to consider the suitability of D C Financials pension transfer advice.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
What follows isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
it advised Mr T but provides useful context for my assessment of its actions here.
The FCA sets the rules and guidance that businesses must follow when advising
clients on pension transfers. Businesses are required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly,
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The suitability rules and guidance that applied are set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the
rules and guidance are to ensure that businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice
that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a
level of risk beyond their investment objective and risk profile. To ensure that this is the
case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the
necessary information for it to be confident its advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this
section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a
fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving
safeguarded benefits  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to adhere to these rules and guidance because the FCA considers
safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and guidance,
businesses advising on pension transfers must start by assuming that the existing defined
benefits scheme is suitable and only to recommend a transfer, which converts safeguarded
benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients best interests.
The FCA requires businesses to consider alternative, viable options to achieve the clients
objectives to enable them to maintain their safeguarded benefits.
The important point to make here is that the FCA refers to clearly in its rules. In my view,
borderline cases  those which appear evenly balanced as to whether to transfer or not dont meet the clearly requirement, as required by the FCA. Therefore, if I conclude that
alternative options couldve met Mr Ts objectives and enabled him to maintain his
safeguarded benefits, then its likely Ill find the advice to transfer unsuitable given the FCAs
default position. Id also like to highlight that the FCA refers to contemporaneous evidence
in its rules. This means that any further analysis carried out by D C Financial after its
recommendation in response to this complaint is essentially irrelevant to my consideration of
the advice given in 2017, although I accept some circumstances, such as the use of pension
funds beyond what was expected may be factored into a redress calculation. 
In line with the FCAs rule, to determine suitability when the advice was given, I must base 
my decision on the evidence from the period leading up to and including its recommendation 
in July 2017 to decide whether its pension transfer recommendation was suitable and clearly 
in Mr T's best interests.
Mr Ts situation
Mr Ts situation at the time D C Financial advised him in July 2017 was unusual for the
reasons set out in the background above. After the BSPS closed on 31 March 2017, there
followed a period of uncertainty regarding the future of the scheme.
Its my opinion that at the time D C Financial issued its recommendation to Mr T on
25 July 2017, there was insufficient information available about the BSPS2 to enable it to
carry out a proper analysis of that option. It wasnt certain that the BSPS2 would go ahead
until at least the RAA was approved by the Pensions Regulator on 11 August 2017 which
was after D C Financial issued its recommendation. But there was no imminent threat of the
BSPS entering the PPF  on the contrary, there had already been an update in
May 2017 that the key commercial terms of the RAA had been agreed. Given that the whole
purpose of the consultation was to prevent the BSPS entering the PPF, I therefore think that
it was just as likely as not, if not more likely, by that point, that the BSPS would avoid
entering the PPF by being restructured into a successor scheme  as it then did. And so I
think its strongly arguable that D C Financial shouldve delayed its recommendation until
more detail became available, but, for the purpose of making a determination, and on the
basis that it advised Mr T before the outcome of the consultation was known, Im going to
proceed on the basis that D C Financial essentially had two options  beyond that of waiting
to learn the results of the consultation  to consider when it issued its recommendation to
Mr T, as follows:
1. Advise him to maintain his safeguarded benefits in the knowledge that there was a 
possibility they would ultimately be transferred to the PPF in the future; or
2. Advise him to transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a personal pension.
D C Financial said that at their initial meeting in February 2017, Mr T had already made his
mind up to transfer out of the BSPS due to his distrust of Tata Steel and his concerns about
the value of his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF. I acknowledge that the
situation was rapidly evolving and there were serious concerns relating to the BSPS at the
time D C financial advised Mr T. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for
individuals such as Mr T. But this only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice
where a regulated advisory business was appointed. Any concerns Mr T had about the
security of his safeguarded benefits shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed
by the professional party in the transaction, D C Financial.
I recognise that there was no perfect solution for Mr T. And that his safeguarded benefits
was ultimately his money to do with as he saw fit. However, he was relying on D C Financialto provide expert, balanced information and advice, taking into account all the information
available to it at that time  so that he could then make an informed decision. I understand 
that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions
or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension scheme but, as the
professional party, D C Financial was tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and
providing an appropriately balanced view of the available options.
D C Financial believes that a pension transfer was necessary at that time and that it fulfilled
Mr Ts wishes. Financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever
course of action a client wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action
to be unsuitable for their client, or otherwise not in their best interests, its incumbent upon
them to explain this  and why.
And in line with the FCAs default position, its my view that D C Financial shouldve only
considered a pension transfer to a personal pension if it could demonstrate, on the
contemporaneous evidence, that it was clearly in Mr Ts best interests rather than
maintaining his safeguarded benefits.
Critical yield and discount rates
The TVAS rules applied at the time D C Financial advised Mr T. This required it to conduct a
transfer value analysis and to calculate the critical yield applicable for the proposed
transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the invested
transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the
defined benefits scheme (and at a different age, if selected) on the assumption that the value
of the alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal
retirement age  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative pension will
achieve sufficient investment growth to match the defined benefits scheme, which in this
case was the BSPS.
The TVAS isnt a precise tool or personalised to reflect individual circumstances and
objectives. But a TVAS has a role to play where its likely the individual would use the
accumulated fund to provide steady, secure income during retirement. So a TVAS was likely
useful for a client, like Mr T, that intended to use their safeguarded benefits towards
achieving a minimum retirement income objective. And the critical yield also gives an
indication of the value offered by the transfer value and the ability to secure comparable
benefits on the open market. So, its therefore useful in that regard.
D C Financials recommendation to Mr T was provided before the FCA published instructions
in Finalised Guidance FG17/9 regarding how businesses could calculate future 'discount
rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being
upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were published by this service on our website.
While businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension
transfers, I consider that they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in Mr Ts case. The closest
discount rate to this time which I'm able to refer to was published by this service for the
period before 1 October 2017 and was 3.0% based on Mr T taking benefits at 60, in line with
his early retirement objective. But even if D C Financial rejects that measure as a reasonable
comparator, the FCA's projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper
rate, 5% per year for the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate.
In contrast, using the TVAS rules, D C Financial calculated the critical yield figures in the
table below based on a transfer value of £670,945.41 being invested in a personal pension.
This showed the average annual investment return required by the personal pension to
provide benefits of equal value to either the BSPS or PPF, as follows:At age 60 based
on a full pensionAt age 60 based
on a reduced
pension and
maximum tax-free
cashAt age 65 
based
on a full 
pensionAt age 65 based
on a reduced
pension and
maximum tax-free
cash
BSPS 11.25% Not calculated 6.71% Not calculated
PPF Not calculated Not calculated 2.02% 1.41%
Bearing in mind the discount rate and FCAs projection rates noted above, its my view that
the critical yield figures for the BSPS, which ranged from 6.71% to 11.25% per year,
depending on when and how Mr T accessed the benefits from the personal pension,
demonstrated that the transfer value of £670,945.41 represented poor value for money. This
is because the invested transfer value would need to achieve significant investment growth
to match the relinquished safeguarded benefits. I acknowledge that the transfer value was
subsequently increased from £670,945.41 to £692,824.06 by the time the transfer was
carried out, meaning the critical yield figures shown in the table above would be marginally
lower if all other underlying assumptions remained unchanged. But it doesnt change my
view that the transfer value represented poor value for money.
Based on the above considerations, I think it was highly likely that Mr T would receive
benefits from the personal pension of a lower overall value than the BSPS at retirement,
bearing in mind investment in the personal pension would need to align to his moderate risk
profile and therefore restrict the potential for the kind of investment growth required to match
the relinquished safeguarded benefits. And it seems D C Financial agrees with my
assessment because in its suitability report it stated, The critical yield required is high and it
would be very unlikely that an investment could provide a return to match the benefits you
are giving up. So based on this alone, a transfer wasnt in Mr Ts best interests.
Notwithstanding the above, the TVAS report states that the annual ongoing adviser
remuneration to D C Financial was assumed to be at £1 rather than an amount equivalent to
1.00% of the personal pension fund value, as stated in the suitability report. If Im reading the
TVAS report correctly then this is a failing on the part of D C Financial because the
difference between £1 and 1.00% of the personal pension fund value as an annual charge is
clearly significant, bearing in mind the personal pension fund value was £684,824.06
immediately following the pension transfer (and after D C Financials initial adviser charge of
£8,000 had been deducted). And if my understanding is correct, it means the invested
transfer value would need to achieve even greater investment growth than indicated by the
TVAS report to account for the ongoing adviser charge. So the critical yield figures
presented to Mr T wouldve therefore be understated, further undermining the case for a
pension transfer.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this.
D C Financials rationale for transferring
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, D C Financial undertook its fact finding for Mr T and then
set out its assessment of his circumstances and objectives regarding his safeguarded
benefits. The latter, as set out above, may be summarised as follows:To draw tax-free cash to immediately repay debt and cover the cost of home 
improvements;
To draw tax-free cash to immediately purchase a property overseas with a view to 
residing in it permanently when he retires at 60;
To receive gross annual retirement income of £24,125 from 60 onwards without 
reduction or penalty;
To provide death benefits to his partner and children; and
To control his own pension fund due to concerns about his future employment with 
Tata Steel and the uncertainty regarding the future of BSPS, including the risk that it 
might transfer to the PPF.
Ive considered these objectives and concerns further below. To make my findings easier to
follow, Ive set them out under separate headings.
Debt repayment and home improvement objectives
At the time of D C Financials advice in July 2017, Mr T and his partner were 55 and 54
respectively and on course to repay the personal loan of about £4,400 in three years time in
2020 and the mortgage of about £22,400 in eight years time in 2025. The credit card debt of
£600 could be repaid at any time. These liabilities totalled £27,400. D C Financial recorded
that Mr T wanted to defer drawing a pension income until he was 60 but draw immediate tax- 
free cash so that he could repay this debt. When responding to this complaint, it said that
repayment of the debt would reduce monthly outgoings by £655 which was a key motivating
factor for Mr T.
D C Financial said that, unlike a personal pension, the flexibility to draw tax-free cash but
defer income until a later date wasnt available through the BSPS or PPF. And that the only
way to achieve the debt repayment objective was therefore by transferring to a personal
pension. It said the lack of flexibility to take immediate tax-free cash but defer income under
the BSPS and PPF rendered those options unsuitable.
Accessing pension benefits early at 55, whether as tax-free cash, income or both, would
likely lead to reduced retirement benefits later in life. Like many people, Mr T might have
wanted to repay his debt. But, given his background, its my view that he didnt have the
necessary knowledge or experience to understand whether it made financial sense to do this
by accessing his safeguarded benefits early to obtain tax-free cash at the cost of reduced
retirement benefits later in life. While he may have wanted to repay his debt at that time,
suitable advice might have been to do nothing or to use surplus disposable income to repay
it sooner. Given his inexperience, its my view that Mr T was relying on D C Financial to
provide suitable advice and to act in his best interests in this regard.
The suitability report doesnt elaborate on the reasons why Mr T wanted to immediately
repay his debt. Theres no suggestion that he was having trouble in making the total monthly
debt repayments of £655 at the time D C Financial provided advice or that this might be the
case in the future. Indeed, D C Financial recorded that Mr T had monthly surplus disposable
income of about £1,000, so it doesnt seem he was struggling financially or why it was a key
motivating factor to increase the monthly surplus disposable income from £1,000 to £1,655.
Therefore, its unclear to me why it was deemed suitable for Mr T to relinquish his
safeguarded benefits and the valuable guarantees to repay debt.As noted above, the FCA expects businesses to adequately consider alternative options to
achieve the clients objectives to enable them to maintain safeguarded benefits. In my view,
there were alternative options, as follows:
Mr T, then aged 55, couldve opted for early retirement benefits from the BSPS. The 
suitability report didnt include the benefits payable by the BSPS at 55. Rather, it 
simply stated that, There would be a 30% reduction in the scheme pension if you 
were to retire at age 55 and an 18% reduction at 60. A personalised figure  in 
monetary terms  wasnt presented to Mr T to help him make an informed decision 
about the BSPS option, which itself is a disclosure failing bearing in mind he wanted 
to access some of his benefits at 55. Given the significant value of his safeguarded 
benefits, its my view that early retirement at 55, even with the 30% reduction, 
wouldve generated sufficient tax-free cash to repay the total debt of £27,400 had           
Mr T opted to convert some of his safeguarded benefits into tax-free cash. This 
course of action wouldve enabled Mr T to maintain his safeguarded benefits, albeit 
with a 30% reduction due to early payment, but nonetheless still achieve the debt 
repayment objective;
Alternatively, Mr T couldve decided to let the mortgage and loan run to their full 
repayment terms. He could clearly afford the repayments given that he had monthly 
surplus disposable income of about £1,000 after paying all essential bills and debt 
repayments. And interest rates were at the time, and had been for the preceding 
several years, very low by historical standards. So its unlikely the interest charged 
on the mortgage and loan was punitive and certainly not as expensive as 
relinquishing safeguarded benefits. This option wouldve enabled Mr T to maintain his 
safeguarded benefits; or
Alternatively, Mr T couldve used some or all the monthly surplus disposable income 
of about £1,000 to repay the debt sooner, possibly before his planned retirement at 
60. This option wouldve enabled Mr T to maintain his safeguarded benefits. This 
seems the most sensible course of action to me based on what was known at the 
time.
I think that these were potentially viable, alternative options to achieve the debt repayment
objective and ought to have been properly assessed. But I cannot see evidence these
options were seriously considered by D C Financial. So I dont agree with its assessment
that a pension transfer was the only suitable option. Its my view that D C Financial shouldve
considered and presented these alternative options in a fair and balanced way to Mr T so
that he could make an informed decision on the available options and whether it was in fact
suitable to repay the debt immediately at that point in time by accessing his safeguarded
benefits early. But theres inadequate evidence that D C Financial did this.
As for the home improvement objective, the suitability report doesnt specify how much tax-
free cash Mr T required for this. So its unclear how much tax-free cash was needed. This
would surely be the first step towards assessing how the home improvements might be
funded. Or whether Mr Ts surplus monthly income could be used to pay for a loan to cover
the cost of the home improvements rather than relinquishing his safeguarded benefits.
In conclusion, regarding his debt repayment and home improvement objectives, its my view
that Mr T made the decision to transfer from an uninformed position. Im not satisfied that
D C Financial demonstrated, on the contemporaneous evidence, that it adequately
considered alternative options or why it was clearly in Mr Ts best interests to relinquish his
safeguarded benefits to achieve these objectives.Property purchase objective
At the time of its advice, D C Financial recorded that Mr T wanted to draw tax-free cash to
immediately purchase a property overseas with a view to residing in it permanently when he
retired at 60. When responding to this complaint, D C Financial said Mr T was adamant he
wanted to buy a property at that time and wasnt prepared to wait one year, let alone five or
10 years, to do this. Conversely, Representative A said that D C Financials records made it
look like Mr T was determined to buy a property when he wasnt. It said it was true that he
wanted to buy a property but, before meeting D C Financial, had always planned to do that
when he retired at 60 and wouldve waited if he was told that was the suitable thing to do. So
while its not in dispute that Mr T wanted to buy a property overseas, theres disagreement
about when he planned to do this. Its also unclear about how much he planned to spend on
the property purchase, which Ill come on to now.
The suitability report is confusing regarding the amount earmarked for the property
purchase. In one section it stated, You want to take £100,000 of tax free cash immediately,
the remainder [money in personal pension] will remain invested at present. You had
explained you wished to invest £100,000 in a property share in [overseas] (where you
ultimately wish to retire to). You also wished to make various gifts to your children and make
a few home improvements [my emphasis added]. This suggests that the full fax-free cash of
£100,000 would be used to buy the property. Theres no mention of any tax-free cash being
earmarked for debt repayment.
But then in another section of the suitability report it stated, You wish to access £100,000
tax free cash from your pension which you will use to pay off your mortgage and an
outstanding loan. You would also like to purchase a shared property in [overseas] as you
would like to retire there in the future, and do some home improvements. The remainder of
the tax free cash will remain invested [my emphasis added]. This suggests that the debt
totalling £27,400 would be repaid in the first instance, leaving about £72,600 to cover the
cost of home improvements and buying the property. So it seems that about £70,000 might
have been earmarked for the property purchase.
To further complicate matters, while waiting for the pension transfer to be completed, Mr T
requested, without consultation with D C Financial, that it arrange to pay him the maximum
tax-free cash because he had found a more expensive property to buy. So he ended up
receiving tax-free cash of £173,206.
Theres no contemporaneous evidence that Mr T had found a property to buy or what the
likely cost would be at the time D C Financial advised him. This is supported by the fact that
the suitability report references different valuations relating to the property purchase of
anywhere between £70,000 and £100,000 and that Mr T, after the recommendation,
requested the maximum tax-free cash of £173,206 to assist with the purchase of a more
expensive property. So I think its fair to say that there was, at the very least, a lack of
certainty or clarity regarding this objective.
I also have concerns relating to the urgency which has been attributed to Mr T in seeking an
overseas property. But even if I accept that he wanted to buy a property as urgently as D C
Financial has suggested, then its my view that it ought to have more clearly defined the
amount of tax-free cash required to support its recommendation. Given the lack of certainty
surrounding the property purchase, both in terms of the likely purchase cost and timing of
purchase, Im not convinced it was clearly suitable for Mr T to relinquish his safeguarded
benefits at that time to achieve this objective. But, again, even if I accept that Mr T was
looking to buy a property in the immediate future, as asserted by D C Financial, its my view
that there were in any case alternative options, as follows:Mr T, then aged 55, couldve opted for early retirement benefits from the BSPS. As 
noted above, the suitability report didnt include the benefits payable by the BSPS at 
55. Rather, it simply stated that, There would be a 30% reduction in the scheme 
pension if you were to retire at age 55 and an 18% reduction at 60. A personalised 
figure  in monetary terms  wasnt presented to Mr T to help him make an informed 
decision about the BSPS option, which itself is a disclosure failing bearing in mind he 
wanted to access benefits at 55. Given the significant value of his safeguarded 
benefits, its my view that early retirement at 55, even with the 30% reduction, 
wouldve likely generated sufficient tax-free cash to buy a property. I acknowledge 
that I make this finding without a firm view on the cost of the property or the amount 
of tax-free cash that might have been payable by the BSPS at 55, but thats because 
D C Financial didnt clarify these matters at the time, as it ought it have done. But it 
seems, in any event, that because there wasnt a firm figure in mind regarding the 
cost of the property, Mr T may have been prepared to limit how much he spent based 
on the maximum tax-free cash available from the BSPS; or
Alternatively, Mr T couldve used some or all of the monthly surplus disposable 
income of about £1,000 towards buying the property. For example, by taking out a 
bridging loan. This course of action wouldve enabled Mr T to buy a property at 55 
while allowing him to delay taking his safeguarded benefits until his planned 
retirement at 60 or perhaps longer (see my comments below under Income 
objective), limiting the impact of the early retirement reduction. Then, at retirement, 
he could commute some of his scheme pension into tax-free cash to repay the 
bridging loan. As noted above, interest rates were at the time, and had been for the 
preceding several years, very low by historical standards. So, overall, the cost of a 
bridging loan is likely to have been more beneficial compared to the overall  and 
permanent - cost of relinquishing safeguarded benefits at 55.
I think that these were viable, alternative options to achieve the property purchase objective 
and ought to have been assessed. But I cannot see evidence that these options were 
considered by D C Financial. So I dont agree with its assessment that a pension transfer 
was the suitable option here. Its my view that D C Financial shouldve considered and 
presented these alternative options in a fair and balanced way to Mr T so that he could make 
an informed decision on the options and whether it was in fact suitable to relinquish his 
safeguarded benefits at that time to buy a property. But theres inadequate evidence that D 
C Financial did this.
In conclusion, regarding achieving his property purchase objective, its my view that Mr T
made the decision to transfer from an uninformed position. Im not satisfied D C Financial
demonstrated, on the contemporaneous evidence, that it adequately considered alternative
options or why it was clearly in Mr Ts best interests to relinquish his safeguarded benefits at
that time to achieve this objective.
Ive thought about what decision Mr T might have made if he was fully informed. While I cant
know for certain, I think its likely, on balance, that he wouldve delayed buying the property
at that time if he knew the scale and consequences of relinquishing his safeguarded
benefits.
Income objective
D C Financial recorded that Mr T wanted to receive gross annual retirement income of
£24,125 from 60 onwards without reduction or penalty after drawing tax-free cash from 55,
as set out above. It said the plan was that Mr T would draw that level of income from the
personal pension until his State pension started at 67, at which point hed reduce the level ofwithdrawal from his personal pension by an amount equivalent to his State pension. At the
time of D C Financials recommendation, Mr Ts annual State pension was estimated to be
£6,217.64. Assuming he remained in employment until 60, and therefore paid further
National Insurance contributions in the interim period, it appears hed be entitled to the full
State pension at 67. The full State pension in 2017/18 was £8,296.60. It increases each year
in line with changes to the CPI. But even with this increase to the State pension, I think its
fair to say that the personal pension would still be required to provide a significant proportion
of Mr Ts income need for many years into his retirement to maintain his target gross annual
retirement income of £24,125.
D C Financial said that, unlike a personal pension, the flexibility to draw varying levels of
income at different points in time and separately to tax-free cash wasnt available through
the BSPS or PPF. And that the only way to achieve the flexibility Mr T desired was by
transferring to a personal pension. It said the lack of income flexibility under the BSPS and
PPF rendered those options unsuitable.
In my view, to determine a retirement income need at a specific age, the starting point is to
establish a realistic target income based on the clients likely fixed outgoings, discretionary
spending plans and excess income for saving. This information would then reveal the
income required to cover the expected expenditure from the target retirement age.
Representative A said theres no evidence to show how D C Financial determined that
Mr Ts gross annual income need from 60 was £24,125. I agree. Firstly, the fact find
document recorded that Mr T was unsure of the estimated level of retirement income he
required. And, secondly, theres no contemporaneous evidence Ive seen that shows a
breakdown of Mr Ts estimated outgoings in retirement to support the need for gross income
of £24,125. So its unclear to me how D C Financial arrived at the figure of £24,125 and
whether, in fact, Mr T required that level of retirement income.
But even if I accept that Mr Ts retirement income need was £24,125 from 60, I make the
following observations. The basis of D C Financials advice was that the figure of £24,125
would remain level throughout Mr Ts retirement, despite it recording he was in good health
and therefore could expect a normal life expectancy into his late 70s or early 80s. So its
unclear how level income of £24,125 from 60 onwards would keep pace with inflation over
the next 20 year period, and possibly beyond, without Mr T having to withdraw more money
from his personal pension than planned for by D C Financial in its recommendation. As
noted above, I recognise that the State pension would increase in payment, but it would take
many years for this to reach and escalate beyond £24,125.
This contrasted with the BSPS and PPF which, in addition to the State pension, would offer
escalation in payment and therefore provide further protection against inflation. I
acknowledge that under the PPF only service after 6 April 1997 would escalate in payment.
But, as noted above, the basis of D C Financials advice was that the income of £24,125
would remain level throughout Mr Ts retirement. So I dont think D C Financial wouldve
necessarily considered it an issue that only about half of the PPF income would escalate in
payment in respect of service between 6 April 1997 and 31 March 2017 when no guarantees
applied to the personal pension.
D C Financial recorded that Mr T wanted flexible income and, due to the uncertainty
regarding the future of the BSPS, including the risk that it might transfer to the PPF, he also
wanted control of his own pension fund. But Im not convinced that there was a genuine
need for flexibility and control. Its my view that Mr T required certainty rather than flexibility
given it was very likely hed be heavily reliant on the value of his safeguarded benefits to
meet a significant proportion of his retirement income need of £24,125. As for Mr Ts
apparent desire to control his pension fund, he hadnt controlled his safeguarded benefitsbetween 17 November 1978 and 31 March 2017. So its unclear why he suddenly desired or 
needed control. And he didnt have any experience of managing large sums of money and 
dealing with the various risks this entails, so it strikes me as odd that hed suddenly want to
take this on. Therefore, Im not persuaded, on the evidence, that Mr Ts need to control his
pension savings to mitigate the risk of his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF
outweighed the risks associated with a pension transfer. I think his misapprehensions about
the PPF shouldve been appropriately managed by D C Financial.
As explained in the sections above, I have my doubts whether there was a genuine urgency
to repay debt and buy a property at 55 and so, if properly advised, Mr T might have
maintained his benefits in the BSPS until he retired at 60. If I accept that his retirement
income need at 60 was £24,125, its my view there were alternative options to the pension
transfer, as follows:
Mr T couldve maintained his safeguarded benefits and taken early retirement at 60. 
For the BSPS, the estimated revalued annual scheme pension at 60 was £25,106 
(the estimated maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension option wasnt 
calculated) which exceeded the target annual income of £24,125. And in the event 
Mr Ts safeguarded benefits were transferred to the PPF before he was 60, the 
estimated revalued annual income at 60 was £19,775 plus tax-free cash of £131,952. 
I recognise that the PPF annual income of £19,775 is £4,350 less than the target 
income of £24,125. But Mr T couldve used £30,450 of the tax-free cash of £131,952 
to cover the income shortfall for the seven-year period to 67 and left a substantial 
amount of cash of about £100,000 to buy the overseas property. So its fair to say 
that both the BSPS and PPF couldve met Mr Ts annual retirement income need of 
£24,125 from 60 and wouldve entailed far less risk, management and costs 
compared to the recommended personal pension; or
Alternatively, Mr T couldve maintained his safeguarded benefits in the knowledge it 
might be transferred to the PPF with the aim of leaving these untouched for as long 
as possible. Then at 60 he couldve used money built up in his Tata Steel defined 
contribution plan to meet his annual income need of £24,125 in the first instance. He 
joined that plan in April 2017 and, according to the fact find document, was 
contributing 26% of his pensionable salary into it each year. His gross annual salary 
was about £45,000. 
Given it was Mr Ts intention to continue working full-time with Tata Steel for the five-
year period until he retired at 60, it seems D C Financial couldve reasonably 
expected that about £60,000 wouldve been invested in his Tata Steel defined 
contribution pension plan by the time he reached 60. This ignores likely investment 
growth and increases in contributions linked to rises in Mr Ts salary. So the pension 
savings of around £60,000 couldve likely met the annual retirement income need of 
£24,125 for about two and a half years, at which point Mr T would need to take early 
retirement from the BSPS (or, more likely, the PPF) to continue meeting the income 
need. The benefit of delaying taking benefits from the BSPS (or the PPF) is that it 
would limit the early retirement reduction applied. It was recorded that Mr T was 
concerned about his future employment with Tata Steel. In the event he was made 
redundant during the five-year period up to 60, its my view hed likely receive a 
significant redundancy payment bearing in mind he had been employed by the 
company since 1978. The safety net of a significant redundancy payment wouldve 
mitigated the risk of contributions not being paid into the Tata Steel defined 
contribution plan for the full five-year period to 60 if Mr T lost his job in the intervening 
period. And in the event Mr T left the employment of Tata Steel before 60, I think its 
likely that hed find alternative employment, albeit most likely outside of the steel industry, and, with the legal requirements of auto-enrolment, would build up 
additional defined contributions elsewhere over the period to 60.
So, whichever way its viewed, I think Mr T would likely have access to substantial
cash through either his defined contribution pension savings, redundancy payment in
the event of losing his employment, or a combination of both, if applicable. Both of
which he couldve used to meet his annual income need of £24,125 from 60 onwards
in the first instance, enabling him to delay drawing his BSPS (or PPF) benefits for as
long as possible.
I acknowledge that following the pension transfer, Mr T took flexible payments from
his personal pension which triggered the Money Purchase Annual Allowance. This
means that only contributions up to £4,000 into his Tata Steel defined contribution
plan currently benefit from tax relief. But this eventuality has only arisen because of
the transfer. Mr T likely wouldnt have taken flexible payments had a different course
of action, such as those Ive set out above, been recommended by D C Financial.
I think that these were viable, alternative options to achieve the income objective and ought
to have been properly assessed. But I cannot see evidence that these options were
considered by D C Financial. I recognise that under these alternative options Mr T would
potentially be in receipt of excess income over his annual income need of £24,125 once the
State pension started at 67. But any excess income couldve been reinvested for future use.
Its my view that D C Financial shouldve considered and presented these alternative options
in a fair and balanced way to Mr T so that he could make an informed decision on the
available options. But theres inadequate evidence that it did this.
Misleading information in the suitability report
Its my view that, in its suitability report, D C Financial didnt fairly present the estimated
retirement income payable by the BSPS or PPF which prevented Mr T from making an
informed decision.
With regard to the BSPS, the report stated, Your current accumulated pension in the British
Steel Scheme is £27,681.76 per annum at age 65, as a deferred member of the scheme this
will increase each year to the normal scheme retirement age of 65. When in payment the
income would be inflation proofed. There would be a 30% reduction in the scheme pension if
you were to retire at age 55 and an 18% reduction at 60. I think its fair to say that an
inexperienced investor like Mr T wouldve interpreted this to mean that his estimated BSPS
annual scheme pension at 65 was £27,681, £22,699 at 60 and £19,377 at 55.
However, as Ive said above, the figure of £27,681.76 was the scheme pension at the date of
leaving the BSPS on 31 March 2017. This figure would be revalued to 65. As stated in the
TVAS report, with revaluation, the estimated BSPS scheme pension at 65 was £34,937 and
£25,106 at 60. So the suitability report provided a misleading picture of the estimated
benefits payable by the BSPS. As a result, Mr T wasnt correctly informed as to what he was
relinquishing. I acknowledge that the TVAS report sent to Mr T included the revalued figure
of £34,937, but it wouldve required Mr T to cross-reference this with the suitability report,
spot the mistake and then question D C Financial about it. I dont think its reasonable to
expect Mr T to have done this. Furthermore, the suitability report included the statement
The BSPS scheme does not offer flexible income or PCLS which you wished to access.
This was clearly incorrect because it was possible to commute some of the BSPS scheme
pension into tax-free cash. Again, I think this misled Mr T about the benefits available under
the BSPS. It was D C Financials responsibility to provide accurate information about the
BSPS in its suitability report to enable Mr T to make an informed decision.As for the PPF, the suitability report didnt state what that option would pay  in monetary
terms  at any age including 55, 60 and 65. So Mr T wasnt placed into an informed position
regarding the PPF either.
Finally, the pension transfer was portrayed by D C Financial in its suitability report as
allowing for early retirement without the penalties which would be applied to the BSPS
scheme pension. The report stated, You are currently in good health and are not planning to
retire until age 60 and feel the penalties imposed for early retirement under the BSPS are
too high. In listing the advantages of the pension transfer, D C Financial stated, The fund
can be accessed from age 55 without penalty. The reality was of course that the personal
pension wouldve had less time to grow if accessed before 65 and any resulting income
would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to Mr T so he
could understand that accessing the BSPS, PPF or personal pension early would likely lead
to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking benefits at 65.
In conclusion, its my view that Mr T made the decision to transfer from an uninformed
position regarding achieving his income objective. Im not satisfied D C Financial
demonstrated, on the contemporaneous evidence, that it adequately considered alternative
options or why it was clearly in Mr Ts best interests to relinquish his safeguarded benefits
when it was clear that both the BSPS and PPF options couldve met his retirement income
need at 60 and with far less risk than the pension transfer it recommended.
Death benefit objective
D C Financial recorded Mr Ts death benefit objective as follows:
The inflexible death benefits concern you after your death, the pension ceases. You
feel it is important to be able to pass on any unused pension fund to your partner and
children.
In its suitability report, D C Financial stated:
You are aware that by transferring your British Steel pension you will be giving up all
the above guaranteed benefits. Miss [name], your partner is aware of your intention
to transfer away from the defined benefit scheme, however she is not entitled to the
50% spouses pension as you are not married. Your children would not qualify for a
dependent's pension as they are over 16. You would be giving up guaranteed and
secure income for life by transferring the British Steel Pension.
The fact that Mr T and his partner were unmarried was a key driver underpinning D C
Financials recommendation to transfer. But I havent seen any evidence that D C Financial
established with the BSPS how it would likely treat Mr Ts partner in the event of his earlier
death. In my view, a business acting in its clients bests interests wouldve investigated this
specific point and documented it since the answer would clearly influence the decision to
transfer or otherwise. Rather, it seems that due to Mr Ts unmarried status, D C Financial
simply assumed that his partner wouldnt be entitled to any benefits under the BSPS in the
event of his earlier death. Im not so certain. Ill explain why.
Pension scheme trustees have certain fiduciary duties when exercising their duties. These
include acting:
in line with the trust deed and rules;
in the best interests of the scheme beneficiaries;
impartially; andprudently, responsibly and honestly.
Mr Ts safeguarded benefits included the potential provision of benefits to any person who
met the definition of dependant under the trust deed and rules of the scheme. Therefore,
following his death, the BSPS trustees would automatically assess whether there were any
dependants  for example, a spouse, children or other relatives who financially depended on
Mr T. The BSPS trust deed and rules applicable as at 31 March 2016 defined dependants of
a deceased member, as follows:
(i) the widow, widower, Same Sex Spouse or Civil Partner of the deceased;
(ii) the issue of the deceased;
(iii) the grandparents of the deceased and the grandparents of the widow or
widower or Same Sex Spouse or Civil Partner of the deceased and the
grandparents of any previous or deceased wife or husband or Same Sex
Spouse or Civil Partner of the deceased;
(iv) the issue of each of the grandparents of the deceased and the issue of
each of the grandparents of the widow or widower or Same Sex Spouse or
Civil Partner of the deceased and the issue of each of the grandparents of
any previous or deceased wife or husband or Same Sex Spouse or Civil
Partner of the deceased and the spouse of any such issue;
(v) the person or persons (if any and whether of full age or not) to whom the
deceased has at any time put himself in loco parentis or their issue and
any person who held the deceased in loco parentis or such person's issue;
and
(vi) any person who in the opinion of the Trustee was wholly or in part
dependent on the earnings of or financially inter-dependent with the
deceased at his death [my emphasis added]
Mr T and his partner had lived together for many years while raising their three children, the
oldest of which was born in 1993. His partner was 54, in good health and had two part-time
employed roles generating a combined gross annual salary of about £12,000 while Mr T had
a gross annual salary of about £45,000. His was the main source of income into the family
home. Their joint income paid for and provided a home for them, with the bulk of their living
costs covered by Mr Ts salary. His partner didnt have any private or occupational pension
savings in her name while Mr T had substantial safeguarded benefits. Based on this, I think
its fair to say that Mr Ts partner was financially dependent on him for the provision of
ordinary necessities of life and would continue to be so for the foreseeable future and likely
throughout her retirement. This also seems to have been the conclusion of D C Financial,
given its advice was based on Mr Ts partner being financially dependent on him and the
uncertainty as to whether she would be catered for within the scheme in the event of his
earlier death.
Therefore, based on the above considerations, and in the absence of adequate research
carried out by D C Financial at the time of its advice, its my conclusion that had Mr T
nominated his partner, the trustees of the BSPS, exercising their fiduciary duties, would
more likely than not conclude that she was wholly or in part dependent on him  and
therefore decide to pay her benefits in the event of his earlier death. I consider it unlikely that
the trustees would reach any other decision given the level of her financial dependency,
including the fact that she didnt have any private or occupational pension provision in her
name upon which she could rely.Although I think it more likely than not the BSPS wouldve paid benefits to Mr Ts partner, its
unclear what would be paid. I think the BSPS trustees would likely make an assessment on
a case-by-case basis. And I think its fair to say that the greater level of financial dependency
on the deceased member, the higher level of benefits paid. And in this case, its clear that
Mr Ts partner was heavily dependent on him. Given these facts, Id have expected D C
Financial to have investigated the trustees position to demonstrate that it was acting in its
clients bests interests before recommending a pension transfer. Since theres no evidence
that it did, its my view that Mr T made the decision to transfer from an uninformed position.
In fact, Id go as far as to say that D C Financial misinformed Mr T when it told him his
partner wouldnt be entitled to any benefits under the BSPS when my view is the opposite,
for the reasons explained. When responding to this complaint, D C Financial didnt provide
any evidence that persuades me that the BSPS trustees wouldnt pay benefits to Mr Ts
partner on his earlier death.
Its worth noting here that the benefits paid by the PPF to a spouse, civil partner or other
relevant dependant is based on the former scheme rules. Therefore, bearing in mind the
definition of dependant under the BSPS, I think its fair to say that Mr Ts partner would
more likely than not be entitled to benefits under the PPF if he nominated her to receive
survivor's benefits in the event of his earlier death.
Notwithstanding the above, I note that while his safeguarded benefits were maintained in the
BSPS, a lump sum equivalent to a refund of contributions of £87,076.46 plus interest at 3%
per year compound would be paid to Mr Ts partner. Furthermore, through his employment,
Mr T had life cover based on a multiple of his salary. Theres a dispute about the multiple.
When responding to this complaint, D C Financial said that the multiple was four times but
Representative A said it was six times. Im going to rely on what was recorded by D C
Financial in the fact find document which states five times. So that would be five times
£45,000, meaning a further lump sum of about £225,000 would be paid to Mr Ts partner in
the event he died while still employed by Tata Steel  regardless of whether his safeguarded
benefits were maintained in the BSPS, transferred to the PPF or a personal pension.
Therefore, it seems to me that in the immediate future, certainly while Mr T remained
employed by Tata Steel, that a lump sum of at least £225,000 would be payable to his
partner if he died before her. So I think its fair to say that there wasnt any immediate need
to transfer at that time to provide death benefits.
Was there an alternative option to meet the death benefit objective?
I acknowledge that the recommended personal pension offered flexible death benefits 
nominated beneficiaries could choose to convert the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity,
death lump sum or income drawdown or any combination of these. Based on the applicable
tax rules, if death occurs under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the
benefits are taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that
immediately following the transfer to the personal pension the death benefits available would
be significant (subject to investment performance).
When responding to this complaint, D C Financial said that, due to the nature of his job
working in heavy industry for nearly 40 years, Mr T had a reduced life expectancy. But
theres no mention of this in the contemporaneous evidence. Rather, both the fact find
document and suitability report state that Mr T was in good health  there wasnt any
reference to a reduced life expectancy. In its correspondence to this service, Representative
B, on behalf of D C Financial, stated that Mr T was in good health, so it too shares my view.
Based on the evidence, Im going to work on the basis that Mr T had a normal life
expectancy. Therefore, he could expect to live into his late 70s or early 80s.
As Ive noted above, the value of his safeguarded benefits represented the backbone of hisretirement provision  hed inevitably require this money to meet his core income needs in
retirement. Therefore, withdrawing tax-free cash at 55, and then more money during
retirement to meet his income need, would likely mean that the size of the fund remaining in
later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected. Its
impossible to say with any degree of certainty what fund might reasonably be available to
Mr Ts partner based on his expected rate of withdrawal and life expectancy  and therefore
how the personal pension might provide financial support for his partner.
As noted above, the FCA expects businesses to adequately consider alternative options to
achieve the clients objectives to enable them to maintain safeguarded benefits. If it was a
genuine desire that Mr T provide for his partner and children on his death (in addition to that
provided above while he remained employed by Tata Steel), then life cover couldve
achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum to his beneficiaries. Pure life cover for
a defined term is generally cheap and may have been affordable for Mr T given he was 55
and recorded as being in good health. D C Financial recorded that Mr T had monthly surplus
disposable income of about £1,000. So I dont think affordability of additional life cover
wouldve been an issue had it been properly explored.
But I cannot see evidence that D C Financial adequately investigated the alternative option
of life cover. For example, I havent seen evidence that it quantified Mr Ts death lump sum
need, over what term, how this might change over time, how it might be met by other means
or present life cover quotes to him. In its suitability report, D C Financial stated, We provide
advice on the widest range of retail investment products including life policies, personal
pensions, stakeholder pensions, unit trusts, investment trusts, open-ended collective
investment schemes and structured capital-at-risk products, so it seems it had the means to
investigate and provide personalised life cover quotes, but didnt do so.
Had this been properly researched and explained to Mr T, he might have made a different
decision regarding the pension transfer, bearing in mind his early retirement objective
couldve been met by the BSPS and PPF, as Ive set out above. When responding to this
complaint, D C Financial said that life cover was discussed with Mr T but he rejected it as an
option because of the likely cost and that he didnt want to start another financial product.
But I havent seen evidence that there was a meaningful discussion about this including
obtaining quotes or that he rejected this option due to cost. And as for Mr T not wanting to
start another financial product, Im not convinced he wouldnt have agreed to this bearing in
mind he started a new personal pension on the recommendation of D C Financial.
In conclusion, Mr T had no recorded health issues at the time of D C Financials
recommendation which might reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees
attached to his own retirement income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his partner
and children. So Im not convinced there was any real merit in Mr T transferring to a personal
pension at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit. Its my view that theres no real
evidence that a death lump sum, certainly beyond what was already in place whilst
employed by Tata Steel, was required.
Mr Ts concerns about the PPF
When responding to this complaint, D C Financial said that Mr T wasnt interested in the
potential reduction of his benefits under the PPF. And that at their initial meeting in
February 2017, hed already made his mind up to transfer out of the BSPS due to his distrust
of Tata Steel and his concerns about the value of his safeguarded benefits being transferred
to the PPF. Consequently, he wanted his benefits under his control to avoid these being
transferred to the PPF.At the time D C Financial advised Mr T, there was a possibility that the value of his
safeguarded benefits would ultimately be transferred to the PPF in the future if he
maintained them in the BSPS. The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a
lifeboat scheme to protect members of defined benefits schemes with the promise of
providing a minimum level of benefits. The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law.
Depending on his age on transfer to the PPF, Mr T could expect to receive a minimum of
90% of his BSPS scheme pension, although this would be affected by the revaluation and
escalation rates under the PPF.
This contrasted with a personal pension where theres no promise of a minimum level of
benefits payable. In its 2016/17 annual report, publicly available at the time of D C
Financials recommendation, the PPF stated that its overall financial position as at
31 March 2017 remained robust, with an increase in its surplus funds to £6.1bn. There was
no reason at that time to question the financial viability of the PPF to provide benefits in the
future.
In the case of Mr T, had the BSPS been transferred to the PPF, his benefits wouldve been
calculated as follows. At the time D C Financial advised Mr T in 2017 he was 55. His scheme
pension at the date of leaving the BSPS on 31 March 2017 was £27,681.76. This figure
would be revalued up to the PPF assessment date, whenever that was. The benefits would
be based on 90% of the revalued BSPS scheme pension built up immediately before that
date. And then, once in the PPF, the benefits would be revalued every year up to 65 (or
early retirement date if the member retired early) subject to a cap of 5% for service from 6
April 1997 to 5 April 2009 and 2.5% after. Then, once benefits come into payment, the
amount in respect of service on or after 6 April 1997 would escalate each year in line with
CPI up to a maximum of 2.5%.
Mr T accrued 38 years and 4 months qualifying service between 17 November 1978 and
31 March 2017. I acknowledge that under the PPF, only his service between 6 April 1997
and 31 March 2007 was guaranteed to be revalued, as set out above. But I dont think this
limited revaluation meant that the PPF was an unsuitable outcome. After all, there wasnt
any guaranteed revaluation under the personal pension recommended by D C Financial.
In my view, D C Financial inappropriately presented the PPF option in the negative and an
outcome for Mr T to avoid. In its suitability report it stated, You are satisfied with your CETV,
and do not want to stay within the scheme any longer and risk entering the Pension
Protection Fund (PPF). And when listing the advantages of a pension transfer it stated,
Removes the risk of your pension entering the Pension Protection Fund. And when listing
the disadvantages of maintaining safeguarded benefits it stated, Risk of default and the
scheme entering the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)
Based on what it stated in its suitability report, I think its more likely than not that D C
Financial emphasised these points in verbal discussions with Mr T which wouldve probably
further coloured his misapprehensions about the PPF and an outcome to avoid at all costs.
If Mr T was apparently concerned about the BSPS transferring to the PPF which would result
in him losing 10% of his starting scheme pension, then I have to also question why, as an
individual who hadnt previously obtained financial advice and had no experience of
investing and managing significant sums of money, he would accept the risk of transferring
to a personal pension which exposed him to inflation, investment and longevity risks, where
the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. So it seems odd to me that Mr T wasnt
interested in the potential reduction of his benefits under the PPF, as asserted by D C
Financial, yet was content to accept the unlimited downside risks associated with the
pension transfer. This suggests to me that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to
understand the features, risks and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. Hewas clearly reliant on D C Financial to provide a fair and balanced assessment of the PPF
and to act in his best interests in this regard. But I dont think it did. Rather, it unfairly
presented the BSPS, and therefore the PPF, as an outcome for Mr T to avoid.
Given the possibility that the BSPS would transfer to the PPF, I think D C Financial ought to
have presented in its suitability report the estimated benefits payable by the PPF  in
monetary terms  at 60 and 65 to enable Mr T to make an informed decision. But, as Ive
noted above, it didnt do this. So its my view he made the decision to transfer from an
uninformed position regarding the PPF.
If properly informed, would Mr T have still insisted on the pension transfer?
In potential mitigation of D C Financials advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr T, if
placed in a fully informed position that his objectives couldve been met by the PPF, as Ive
set out above, would nevertheless still have insisted on the pension transfer if advised to
retain his safeguarded benefits. On balance, its my view that had Mr Ts fears about the
security of his safeguarded benefits been adequately allayed and was placed into an
informed position about the alternative options, he wouldnt have insisted on a pension
transfer given his inexperience, moderate risk profile and his wider personal and financial
circumstances. Im not persuaded that, if fully informed, he wouldve relinquished his
safeguarded benefits in exchange for the unlimited downside risks associated with the
pension transfer.
Conclusion
In its final response letter to this complaint, D C Financial said that the pension transfer was
the only option available to meet Mr Ts objectives. However, for the reasons explained
above, Im not satisfied that it demonstrated, on the contemporaneous evidence, that it
adequately considered alternative options to meet Mr Ts objectives or why it was clearly in
his best interests to relinquish his safeguarded benefits to achieve these.
Mr Ts safeguarded benefits were the backbone of his (and his partners) retirement
provision. In my view, the primary concern here shouldve been the security of those
benefits. A combination of the BSPS or PPF benefits and, if necessary, those derived of the
Tata Steel defined contribution plan, along with the State pension wouldve met Mr Ts
retirement income need from 60 onwards. Im not convinced that there was a genuine, or at
least clearly demonstrated, need to repay the debt early, to purchase a property overseas at
that time or to provide a death lump sum to his beneficiaries in exchange for the loss of
guaranteed retirement income. As for the death benefit objective, as noted above, I think its
more likely than not that the BSPS and the PPF, if required, would pay benefits to Mr Ts
partner based on the fact she was entirely reliant on him to support her standard of living
and didnt have any private or occupational pension provision in her own name.
Its my view that D C Financials failure to carry out adequate analysis and presentation of
alternative options resulted in Mr T making the decision to transfer from an uninformed
position. And had this not been the case, Im confident that he wouldnt have proceeded with
the transfer.
The key contributing factors here relate to inadequate consideration of alternative options to
achieve Mr Ts stated objectives, the unbalanced and misrepresentative portrayal of the
value of Mr Ts safeguarded benefits compared to the recommended pension transfer and
exposing his significant retirement provision to more risk than he was likely able to tolerate 
all of which are a failure to adhere to COBS 2.1.1R, COBS 4.2.1, 9.2.2R, 19.1.2R, 19.1.6G,
19.1.7G and 19.1.8G.In summary, my provisional decision was that it was fair and reasonable to uphold this
complaint based on the available evidence. I went on to set out what I considered to be fair
compensation based on the position Mr T wouldve been in had he opted for the PPF and 
taken benefits at 60. I explained why I thought Mr T wouldve opted for the PPF rather than 
the BSPS2 because it was likely the better option for members who expected to retire early 
and/or take the maximum tax-free cash available, which was applicable to Mr Ts situation. I 
stated that redress should be calculated in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
I asked the Representatives for Mr T and D C Financial to provide any further comments or 
evidence that they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. Both 
Representatives provided additional comments, some of which related to the proposed 
redress methodology. After considering those comments, I was still minded to uphold this 
complaint but change the basis of the redress methodology. I explained why to the 
Representatives and gave them a further opportunity to comment which they both did. 
While I was considering the Representatives additional comments, the FCA launched a 
consultation on 2 August 2022 regarding changes to FG 17/9 and set out its proposals in a 
consultation document  CP22/15-calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer 
advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with any changes expected to be 
implemented in early 2023. Our investigator asked Representative A whether Mr T preferred 
any redress to be calculated now in line with the current guidance under FG 17/9 or wait for 
the any new guidance and rules to be published. It confirmed Mr T preferred for any losses 
to be calculated under the current methodology but, if this complaint hasnt been settled in 
full and final settlement by the time any new guidance or rules come into effect, that it 
expects D C Financial to carry out a calculation in line with the updated rules and/or 
guidance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
The findings I made in my provisional decision and set out above form part of this final 
decision. Ive considered all the additional comments and evidence provided to me in 
response to my provisional decision. Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision 
isnt to repeat or address every single point raised by the parties. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Suitability 
In response to my provisional decision, Representative B for D C Financial said that the 
advice provided to Mr T was suitable both in accordance with the standard of a reasonably 
competent financial advisor and in accordance with the FCA's rules and guidance at the time 
of the advice. It accepted that the suitability report included incorrect information and 
couldve presented some of the information to Mr T in clearer way. But it considered these 
issues relatively minor because they were either correctly stated elsewhere and/or wouldve 
been clarified during discussions with Mr T. When looking at the advice holistically, it was 
satisfied that Mr T was provided with sufficient information to understand the risks associated with transferring his BSPS benefits to a personal pension. In its view, Mr T acted 
in an imprudent manner by withdrawing large sums from his personal pension and so always 
intended to transfer regardless of what D C Financial advised him to do. Therefore, it didnt 
agree that this complaint should be upheld and Mr T awarded compensation. 
Ive carefully considered Representative Bs comments. For the reasons explained in my 
provisional decision, I dont think D C Financials advice to transfer to the personal pension 
could be regarded as suitable in the circumstances. I wont repeat my reasons here. Nothing 
Representative B has said in response to my provisional decision changes my view on this. 
And I disagree with its view that the failings in the suitability report were minor. The suitability 
report significantly understated the estimated pension payable by the BSPS at 65. And it 
didnt state what level of benefits the PPF would pay  in monetary terms  at any age 
including 55, 60 and 65. Mr T was relying on D C Financial to provide him accurate 
information. So it remains my view that he wasnt placed into an informed position regarding 
the benefits payable by the BSPS or PPF before deciding to accept the recommendation to 
transfer.
As noted in my provisional decision, Mr T was an inexperienced investor. Prior to the 
pension transfer, theres no evidence that he had any experience of handling or investing 
large sums of money. So Im not surprised that he may have acted imprudently when he 
suddenly had access to a significant sum of money following the pension transfer. But 
access to that money came at the expense of relinquishing valuable guaranteed and 
escalating pension income that represented the backbone of his retirement provision.
Its my view that Mr T was heavily reliant on D C Financial to provide expert advice and to 
act in his best interests. These arent general observations  theyre specific to Mr Ts 
situation. For the reasons explained, its my view that D C Financial shouldve advised Mr T 
to retain his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. Im required to make a finding on the balance 
of probabilities. It remains my view that, on balance, Mr T, if fully informed and provided a 
suitable recommendation, wouldnt have acted against the professional advice of D C 
Financial had it advised him to maintain his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS and explained 
that his objectives couldve been met by the PPF in the event of a transfer to that scheme. 
The PPF
Representative A, on behalf of Mr T, said that when the prospect of the BSPS2 was first 
announced in 2016, it was intended to provide most members with better benefits than the 
PPF. It said it had taken advice from an actuary who confirmed that the only individuals who 
wouldve been better off in the PPF were those who were retiring early and were very close 
to that early retirement age at the time of the transfer. It noted that Mr T was 55 at the time of 
the advice, and while he was interested in taking benefits at 60, there wasnt any evidence 
he had concrete plans to retire at that age. Mr T is now over 60, working full-time and isnt 
regularly drawing an income from his pension. He was therefore not in the small minority for 
whom the PPF was the better option. It didnt agree with my view that the PPF was likely the 
better option for any members who expected to take the maximum tax-free cash or that the 
PPF would likely provide a higher level of tax-free cash at 60 than the BSPS.
It thought that had he been suitability advised, Mr T wouldve opted for the BSPS2 and taken 
benefits at 65 rather than from the PPF at 60. It said that its also important to note that the 
BSPS2 wouldve enabled Mr T to transfer out later in life should it become necessary or 
advisable. This wouldnt be possible under the PPF. Consequently, it said the loss 
assessment calculation should be on a comparative basis with the BSPS2 and not the PPF. 
And given that Mr T is currently under 65, it said that this means a prospective loss 
assessment should be carried out rather than an actual loss assessment.Having considered this, Im not persuaded to change my opinion. The information recorded 
at the time Mr T was advised by D C Financial confirmed that he wanted to retire at 60 rather 
than 65. This was the basis of the recommendation. I dont think its unreasonable for me to 
rely on this. And Im content that it was Mr Ts genuine desire to draw benefits earlier than 65 
because, following the pension transfer, he took tax-free cash at 55 and then flexible income 
payments from his personal pension despite remaining in full-time employment; these 
withdrawals are inconsistent with the notion that Mr T wasnt intending to draw benefits until 
65, as suggested by Representative A. Notwithstanding this point, although he may not have 
been presented with monetary amounts, at the time of the announced changes to the BSPS, 
Mr T wouldve been presented with information that indicated hed be better off under the 
PPF than the BSPS2 if he took benefits at 60  this supports what Representative A said it 
was told by an actuary. So, given his desire at that time to retire earlier than 65, had he been 
placed in an informed position, I think its likely Mr T wouldve opted for the PPF with a view 
to taking benefits at 60 including the maximum tax-free cash. And as I set out in my 
provisional decision, its my view that Mr Ts retirement income need couldve been met by 
from 60 using a combination of the income and tax-free cash provided by the PPF until he 
received the State pension at 67. Nothing the parties have said in response to my 
provisional decision changes my opinion on this.
So, it remains my view that compensation should be based on the position Mr T wouldve 
been in had he opted for the PPF and taken benefits early at 60 including taking the 
maximum tax-free cash. Since Mr T is now over 60, this means that an actual rather than 
prospective loss assessment should be carried out.
Mr Ts partner
When D C Financial advised Mr T, it said that his partner wouldnt be entitled to any benefits 
under the BSPS. In my provisional decision, I concluded that the trustees of the BSPS, 
exercising their fiduciary duties and in line with the trust deed and rules, would more likely 
than not conclude that Mr Ts partner was wholly or in part dependent on him  and therefore 
decide to pay her benefits in the event of his earlier death. I acknowledged that it was 
unclear what level of benefits might be paid but it would likely be linked to the dependants 
financial dependency. And in this case, it was clear that Mr Ts partner was heavily 
dependent on him. To carry through the provisional finding that his partner would receive 
some level of benefit rather than nothing, as implied by D C Financial when it advised him, I 
proposed that Mr T be treated as married rather than single in the actual loss assessment 
calculation.
In response, Representative B, on behalf of D C Financial, said that I had misinterpreted the 
trust deed and rules by concluding that Mr Ts partner would be treated as a dependant and 
receive the same level of benefits as a spouse. So it disagreed the loss assessment should 
be calculated on the basis that Mr T is married despite the fact he was unmarried at the time 
of the advice and remains so. 
Contrary to what Representative B said, I didnt explicitly state in my provisional decision that 
Mr Ts partner would receive a 50% spouses pension. I recognised that directing D C 
Financial to treat Mr T as married for redress purposes would automatically lead to 
calculations making allowances for a spouses pension. But my intention was for the loss 
assessment to account for the dependants benefits that I think would be paid in the event of 
Mr Ts earlier death.
However, in light of Representative Bs comments, Ive reconsidered the matter including 
reviewing the trust deed and rules, and the BSPS website. The BSPS website states the 
following in reference to the definition of dependants:"any person who the Trustee considers was wholly or partly dependent on or 
financially inter-dependent with your earnings at the time of your death  such as a 
common law partner, fianc or fiance, living at the same address  may also 
qualify in these circumstances. But please note that no spouses pension would 
be payable. [my emphasis added]
And under money when you die it states:
When you start taking your pension, your payments are guaranteed for five years. If 
you die during this guarantee period, we pay a lump sum to your dependants or 
personal representatives. This lump sum is the remainder of the pension instalments 
which we would have paid you over the guarantee period. The lump sum would be 
based on the value of the pension at the date of death. [my emphasis added]
Based on this, I maintain my view that its reasonable to think that Mr Ts partner would likely 
be treated as a dependant. But I think the maximum level of benefit shed likely receive 
would be a five-year guarantee period from the point Mr T started taking income. She 
wouldnt receive a 50% spouses pension.
I further note that the FCAs FG 17/9 (guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers) doesnt make any allowances for unmarried partners in 
actual loss cases. For such cases, as is Mr Ts, the actual marital status should be used, if 
known. The marital status of Mr T is clearly single and relevant to the loss assessment 
calculation.
Therefore, taking all the above into account, Ive decided to change my mind. Its now my 
view that Mr T should be treated as single for the purposes of the loss assessment. I 
explained why I had changed my mind to the Representatives for both parties.
In response, Representative A for Mr T said that it strongly disagreed with my view that he 
should be treated as single for the purposes of the loss assessment. It said that he is now 
over 60 and doesnt intend to retire until 65. So this means that a prospective rather than an 
actual loss assessment should be carried out. And, as per FG17/9, actual marital status is 
irrelevant because its assumed theres an 85% chance the member will be married at 
retirement. It said that there wasnt any concrete plans for Mr T to retire at 60 at the time of   
D C Financials advice and so it would be incorrect to carry out an actual loss assessment on 
the basis he wouldve retired at 60 when the reality is that hes reached that age and hasnt.
Ive carefully considered Representative As comments. But for the reasons Ive explained 
above, its my view that the contemporaneous strongly indicates that, at the time, Mr T 
wanted to retire earlier than 65 and that, in my view, had he been placed in an informed 
position its likely he wouldve opted for the PPF with a view to taking benefits at 60 including 
the maximum tax-free cash. And so, on this basis, it remains my view that an actual loss 
assessment should be carried out and based on Mr Ts actual marital status which is single.
PPF buy-out
In my provisional decision, I indicated that the loss assessment should be carried out on the 
basis that Mr T opted for the PPF and took benefits early at 60, in line with his recorded 
objective. I noted that had Mr T opted for the PPF he may have been entitled to an increase 
in benefits as a result of the buy-out with PIC. And that I thought it was fair any such 
increase in benefits be taken into account when compensating Mr T.Representative B doesnt accept that additional compensation should be paid as a result of 
the buy-out. It said that its unreasonable to punish D C Financial by expecting it to increase 
the level of compensation arising out of the buy-out as this additional loss is far too remote 
from the original advice. In its view, any redress calculation should be based on the 
information available about the PPF at the time of D C Financials advice. This is because at 
the time of the advice, it was inconceivable that the BSPS trustees wouldve been in position 
to purchase the buy-out with PIC and they were only able to do so because its funding 
position in 2020 was better than expected.
Representative A for Mr T said that he would possibly have been entitled to an increase in 
benefits after the buy-out had he opted for the PPF. So it thinks its only fair that any such 
increases are taken into account when compensating him and that a second calculation 
should be carried out after the buy-out process has been completed. 
Ive considered the comments received from the both Representatives. A second calculation 
is fair in some circumstances. But, having reconsidered the matter, its my view that had he 
been suitability advised, Mr T wouldve taken income and the maximum tax-free cash from 
the PPF at 60. Due to the lower early retirement reduction factor which wouldve applied in 
the PPF compared to the BSPS, I think (albeit without certainty in advance of knowing the 
detailed terms of the buy-out) that entry into the PPF wouldve produced an overall better 
outcome for Mr T. As such, I think its more likely the case that there would be no deficit in 
the PPF benefits which could be made up by the buy-out process. For this reason, its my 
view that D C Financial should undertake a redress calculation on the current known basis, 
rather than wait for the terms of any future buy-out to be confirmed.
Property purchase 
Representative B said that Mr Ts actions to take the maximum tax-free cash and then 
withdraw ad-hoc lump sums from his personal pension was contrary to D C Financials 
advice. It said that Mr T took the maximum tax-free cash to purchase a property in Spain and 
that any subsequent increase in the value of that property should to be deducted from the 
redress figure because ignoring it would place him in a beneficial position hes not entitled to 
be in. In response to my provisional decision, Representative B again requested that I hold 
an oral hearing with the parties to scrutinise Mr Ts intentions regarding the property 
purchase. It asked that I compel Mr T to provide to this service evidence of correspondence 
between him and estate agents or any other parties regarding Spanish properties.
As I previously explained, I dont think its necessary to grant an oral hearing because Im 
satisfied that theres sufficient documentary evidence already provided by the parties to 
enable me to reach a fair and reasonable decision.
Having again considered this point carefully, I dont agree with Representative Bs position. I 
think it may have had a case if D C Financial had essentially advised Mr T to purchase a 
specific Spanish property  in other words, if the whole or overarching objective of the advice 
was to transfer in order to buy a specific Spanish property.
However, thats not what happened here. D C Financial may have known that buying a 
property in Spain was one of Mr Ts objectives and its advice to transfer may have provided 
the opportunity for him to buy the property. But D C Financial didnt advise Mr T to purchase 
a specific Spanish property. I say this because, as set out in my provisional decision, theres 
no contemporaneous evidence that Mr T had found a property to buy or what the likely cost 
would be at the time D C Financial advised him. This is supported by the fact that the 
suitability report references different valuations relating to the property purchase of 
anywhere between £70,000 and £100,000 and that Mr T, after the recommendation, 
requested the maximum tax-free cash of £173,206 to assist with the purchase of a more expensive property. So it remains my view that there was, at the very least, a lack of 
certainty or clarity regarding this objective. Obtaining the correspondence to which 
Representative B refers wouldnt change my view on this.
So my conclusion is that the purchase of the property was incidental to the advice so, in 
assessing Mr Ts financial loss, I dont think D C Financial should be given the credit of any 
increase in the propertys value. 
Putting things right
I stated in my provisional findings above that in July 2017 when D C Financial issued its
recommendation to Mr T there was insufficient information available about the BSPS2 to
enable it to carry out a proper analysis of that option. However, I recognise that had Mr T
been advised to retain his benefits in the BSPS he wouldve been contacted in October 2017
as part of the Time to Choose communication exercise and presented the opportunity to
transfer to either the PPF or BSPS2.
Therefore, in the interests of completeness, Ive considered whether the loss assessment
should be carried out on the basis Mr T had the option to transfer to either the PPF or
BSPS2. My view is aligned with that of our investigator in that D C Financial ought to have
advised Mr T to retain his safeguarded benefits. I think that had he been given the choice of
either the PPF or BSPS2 and placed into an informed position regarding the features, risks
and benefits of both options, Mr T wouldve likely opted for the PPF.
I have this opinion because the PPF was likely the better option for members who expected
to retire early and/or take the maximum tax-free cash available. But the BSPS2 was likely
the better option for members who expected to draw benefits at the scheme normal
retirement age of 65. On balance, I think Mr T would likely taken benefits at 60 in line with 
his recorded early retirement objective, suggesting that the PPF would be the better option. I 
recognise that there would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the 
PPF and that income in respect of service before 6 April 1997 wouldnt escalate in payment. 
The BSPS2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred members. But the reduction for
early retirement under the PPF, proposed here at 60, was lower and would likely have more
than offset the 10% reduction. The commutation factor for converting pension income into
tax-free cash was also slightly more favourable under the PPF compared to the BSPS2 
and its my view that maximum tax-free cash was attractive to Mr T. And so both the starting
income and the tax-free cash would likely have been higher under the PPF compared to the
BSPS2 at 60.
FCA consultation 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance
and set out its proposals in a consultation document  CP22/15-calculating redress for
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA stated that it considers the current redress methodology in 
FG17/19 remains appropriate and fundamental changes arent necessary. However, its 
review identified some areas where it considers it could improve or clarify the methodology 
to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
The FCA has stated that it expects businesses to continue to calculate and offer 
compensation to their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 while the 
consultation takes place. But, until changes take effect, businesses should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and 
guidance that may come into force after the consultation has concluded.
Our investigator asked Representative A whether Mr T preferred any redress to be 
calculated now in line with current guidance under FG 17/9 or wait for the any new guidance 
and rules to be published. It confirmed Mr T preferred for any losses to be calculated under 
the current methodology. Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains 
appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr T.
D C Financial must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the FCAs pension
review guidance as updated by it in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how
to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. This calculation should be carried
out as at the date of this final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at
the date of this decision. It should be carried out on the basis that Mr T took benefits 
including the maximum tax-free cash available from the PPF at age 60. In accordance with 
the FCAs expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of this final decision.
D C Financial may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain
Mr Ts contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the BSPS on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ts personal pension. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the personal pension if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the personal pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the 
loss couldve been taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%, as stated in my provisional 
decision. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
If this complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance
or rules come into effect, Id expect D C Financial to carry out a calculation in line with the
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
PPF buy-out
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become 
responsible for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently
expected to be completed by April 2023.
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full 
Scheme benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF 
assessment period) will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see 
no change as a result of the buy-out. For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the 
buyout happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits 
so they will receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to 
their current level of benefits as a result of the buy-out.
In my provisional decision, I stated that I was minded to require D C Financial to carry out a 
second calculation once the buy-out process was completed to ensure that Mr T isnt 
disadvantaged. A second calculation is fair in some circumstances. But, having reconsidered 
the matter, its my view that had he been suitability advised, Mr T wouldve taken income and 
the maximum tax-free cash from the PPF at 60. Due to the lower early retirement reduction 
factor which wouldve applied in the PPF compared to the BSPS, I think (albeit without 
certainty in advance of knowing the detailed terms of the buy-out) that entry into the PPF 
wouldve produced an overall better outcome for Mr T. As such, I think its more likely the 
case that there would be no deficit in the PPF benefits which could be made up by the buy-
out process. For this reason, I require D C Financial to undertake a redress calculation on 
the current known basis, rather than wait for the terms of any future buy-out to be confirmed. 
This is in order to provide a resolution as swiftly as possible for both parties and bring finality 
to proceedings.
If Mr T accepts this final decision he will be doing so on the basis of my understanding as set 
out above. Its important that Mr T is aware that, once any final decision has been issued, if 
accepted, it cannot be amended or revisited in the future.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000. Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally 
require D C Financial Limited to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require         
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also recommend 
that D C Financial Limited pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally recommend any
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T. If Mr T were to accept 
this final decision on the above basis, the determination and money award would be binding 
on D C Financial Limited. My recommendation wouldnt be binding on D C Financial Limited. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr T could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mr T may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this final decision.
In addition, I think that this matter will have caused Mr T trouble and upset. He would 
naturally have been very concerned about a potential reduction in his pension benefits as a 
result of the unsuitable advice given to him. So I think D C Financial Limited should pay £300 
to Mr T in respect of this. 
The loss assessment calculation must be provided to Representative A in an easy to 
understand format.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman