DRN-2318499
The complaint
Miss S complains about the service she has received from Next Retail Limited with whom 
she has a running account credit agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive reviewed Nexts system notes and they suggest Miss S had problems with getting 
parcels collected in October and November 2019. On both occasions a different courier was 
arranged to make the collections. The November collection failed and was arranged and 
completed the following day. 
Ive seen that the items that were collected were billed and refunded on the same statement 
so there was no financial impact on Miss Ss account.
Miss S says her problems began in August 2019 but having reviewed Nexts system notes I 
cant see evidence that was the case. 
Next credited Miss Ss account with £20 to compensate her for the delays in collecting her 
parcels. Miss S says that was simply a refund of the fee she paid to set up a collection 
service. 
Miss S has not been out of pocket as a result of Nexts failure to collect parcels and it 
appears that they were responsive and did arrange alternative collections in reasonably 
quick time and early enough so that Miss Ss account wouldnt incur charges.
I can see that Miss S is upset that she received calls from Next at inconvenient times and 
that regardless of whether she incurred any charges for the goods that were being collected, 
she was anxious that they would be charged.
Having considered all of the circumstances of this complaint Im not asking Next to take any 
further action as I think the £20 they paid, or refunded, was sufficient to compensate Miss S 
for the inconvenience Ive seen documented. Miss S would like Next to refund the interest 
they charged on the £20 delivery/collection fee she says she paid. But I can see that Miss S 
has had many deliveries and collections and I dont think its unreasonable to expect her to 
pay something towards the service she has received.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman