DRN-4494962
The complaint
Miss M and Ms M complain that Nationwide Building Society caused delay in dealing with 
their application for further borrowing on their mortgage. They wanted the further borrowing 
to increase their share of their shared ownership property, known as staircasing.
What happened
Miss M and Ms M have a mortgage with Nationwide, secured over their shared ownership 
property. In 2022 they decided to increase their ownership share. Unfortunately the 
application took several months to complete, which led to this complaint.
Miss M and Ms Ms property is in a building affected by cladding issues. An external wall 
survey  form EWS1  has rated the property as B2 (meaning the cladding is a risk and 
requires remediation). But there was a plan in place to resolve the cladding issues without 
charge to the leaseholders, including Miss M and Ms M. They say they told Nationwide 
about this from the start and were told that their application would fit within Nationwides 
criteria because of the remediation plan.
Miss M and Ms M say that they were dealing with a specific Nationwide mortgage adviser, 
but he then went off on long term leave. Miss M and Ms M say they asked for another point 
of contact but werent given one. In the meantime all communication about their application 
went to the advisers email address which Nationwide wasnt monitoring in his absence.
Miss M and Ms M also say that the valuer appointed by Nationwide to value the property for 
mortgage purposes repeatedly asked for information  some of which had already been 
provided  and asked for it in a piecemeal way over time rather than requesting all 
information at once. And there seemed to be a breakdown of communication between 
Nationwide and its valuer. They say this caused further delay to their application.
Both parties have set out a timeline of events from their point of view. Ive set out Miss M 
and Ms Ms view in normal text, and Nationwides in italics where it doesnt agree or provides 
a different or further account.
March 2022  their first contact with Nationwide, and a three week wait for an 
appointment with a mortgage adviser.
April 2022  appointment with an adviser, and the mortgage application submitted.
May 2022  Nationwides valuer instructed. The valuer requested a copy of the 
EWS1 form, which Miss M and Ms M provided. Two weeks later the valuer requested 
a copy of the EWS1 cover letter. Miss M and Ms M say they provided it, but then 
Nationwide took a month to pass it on to the valuer. Nationwide agrees the cover 
letter should have been requested at the same time as the EWS1.
June 2022  Miss M and Ms M chased progress with their application. They say they 
were told the mortgage adviser had been on leave and had restarted their application 
on his return. They were told that the EWS1 form wasnt acceptable because it didnt 
state each address in their block separately, it stated the whole block 
July 2022  Miss M and Ms M continued to chase their application. They are told the 
adviser is now on long term leave and not given another point of contact. Nationwide 
says further information was provided to the valuer at the start of the month. The 
valuers response was received back at the end of July and referred to underwriters 
for review. It says the adviser had gone on bereavement leave but other members of 
his team were dealing with his applications and monitoring his emails.
August 2022  Miss M and Ms M provided confirmation of the address on the EWS1 
form. The valuer raised further questions about the construction of the building. 
There is a Nationwide internal email from 23 August which says the mortgage 
adviser is on leave and the staff member who was looking at the application says 
the notes have lost me and the members [Miss M and Ms M] seem to be asked for 
different things. Further internal clarification was sought.
September 2022  the valuer said the property wasnt acceptable due to the B2 
rating without confirmation of the remediation works. After spending some weeks and 
many phone calls trying to find out what further information the valuer needed, they 
discovered it was the same as they had provided some months earlier. An offer was 
finally issued at the end of September, but only after much further chasing and 
problems with the age of information caused by the amount of time the application 
had taken. Nationwides complaint team emailed the mortgage application team to try 
to find out what the delay was and asking that Miss M and Ms M receive an urgent 
courtesy call so as to get the application moving again. This led to their application 
being escalated within the valuation team.
October 2022  their solicitor noticed that Nationwide had issued mortgage offers 
using incorrect names. Miss M and Ms M share a compound surname, but 
Nationwide had assumed that the first part of the surname was Miss Ms middle 
name and therefore put an incorrect and incomplete surname for her on the offer. 
When they queried this, because the shared owner required the names to match its 
own records, Nationwide told them that meant the mortgage had to be 
re-underwritten. Nationwide then told them they would also need a consent letter 
from the shared owner before it could issue a new offer  even though such a 
document is only required and provided at exchange of contracts stage. Nationwide 
says the name issue likely occurred due to a system error when the original 
mortgage was set up in 2016. It says that when re-processed the application was 
declined by its systems because of the delay since the valuation and original 
decision, but that it manually overrode this to approve and issue a revised offer.
Nationwide then agreed this was an error and could be rectified, and that Miss M and 
Ms M could go ahead and arrange a completion date, with a revised offer to follow. 
Two days before completion they had still not received a revised offer, though 
Nationwide assured them everything was ready to go ahead. But on the nominated 
completion date they could not complete  after several lengthy phone calls the offer 
was finally issued late in the day and completion did manage to go ahead before the 
end of the day.
Miss M and Ms M say this whole process took huge amounts of time and caused a great 
deal of stress. Their application to increase the shared ownership was dependent on an 
independent valuation  separate from Nationwides mortgage valuation  of their property. 
That valuation was only valid for three months and because of the time taken they had to get 
it extended twice, with the risk that the value would increase  impacting their ability to 
staircase. Although this didnt happen, and they were able to staircase at the same value, it was a constant worry. Miss M and Ms M also had to pay additional rent to their shared 
owner because of the delay in increasing their share. And even once the offer was issued, 
there were further problems which nearly caused their staircasing purchase to fail on 
completion day. To resolve the complaint, they want substantial compensation and for 
Nationwide to waive the fees they paid for the mortgage, and for it to compensate them for 
the additional rent.
Miss M and Ms M made a complaint to Nationwide about their experience of the application 
process. In August, they say they were told that if they pursued a complaint their mortgage 
application would be put on hold while their complaint was investigated. After further delay, 
they tried again and say that this time they were told a complaint could be investigated while 
their application progressed after all. They say Nationwide made the complaints process 
difficult and that errors it made meant that it wasnt able to respond to their complaint within 
the required eight weeks. Even after the eight weeks had expired, Nationwide asked them to 
resend their original complaint email because it had not been added to its systems and was 
lost. They want further compensation for the extra delay and upset the failure to respond to 
their complaint caused.
Nationwide responded to their complaint and accepted that the application hadnt gone 
smoothly. It later told us that it accepted it was responsible for delays totalling around three 
months at various stages of the process.
In its first final response, Nationwide offered £200 compensation for the delays, including 
because the mortgage adviser had gone on leave and hadnt been replaced. Miss M and 
Ms M werent happy with that and renewed their complaint.
In its second final response, Nationwide offered a further £550 compensation for the 
additional stress caused by the errors with Miss Ms name, and because the mortgage 
adviser hadnt asked for the covering letter of the EWS1 form sooner. It also offered 
£919.48, as the amount their mortgage balance would have reduced by had it completed 
within normal timescales and theyd therefore made capital repayments for longer. In arriving 
at this figure, it assumed that their mortgage could have started on 1 June rather than in late 
October.
Our investigator thought that offer didnt go far enough. He said that Nationwide should also 
refund Miss M and Ms M the additional rent they had to pay over that period too. Miss M and 
Ms M had shown that their rent to the shared owner was £887.15 per month before the 
staircasing and £380.21 after, meaning a difference of £506.94 per month. He therefore said 
that Nationwide should also pay them £2,534.70  five extra months rent they wouldnt have 
had to pay had their mortgage completed on 1 June.
Miss M and Ms M accepted that. But Nationwide didnt. It said this would mean that Miss M 
and Ms M would be over-compensated  because it didnt take into account that their 
mortgage payments would have increased to offset the reduction in their rent. It maintained 
its offer of the amount their mortgage would have reduced by had they paid five extra 
months of capital payments was fair.
I agreed with Nationwide that the investigators proposal would result in Miss M and Ms M 
being over-compensated. I issued a provisional decision setting out my reasoning, to allow 
the parties to provide any further evidence or argument they wanted me to consider before I 
make a final decision.
My provisional decision
I said:Its accepted on all sides that this application was not well handled. There was 
substantial delay, as well as problems such as incomplete and duplicate requests for 
information.
Miss M and Ms M were provided with poor service and caused considerable worry 
and upset. None of that is in dispute  what I have to resolve is what amounts to fair 
compensation.
Ill start by considering Miss M and Ms Ms financial loss. Im afraid I dont agree with 
our investigator that Nationwide should refund five months additional rent, and Im 
satisfied that the offer Nationwide made is fair. Ill explain why.
Before the mortgage completed, Miss M and Ms M were paying £1,501.79 per month 
- £616.64 in mortgage payments and £887.15 in rent to the shared owner.
As part of their further borrowing application, they also took a new interest rate on 
their existing mortgage balance, meaning the payments reduced to £441.85. They 
also paid £916.90 on the further borrowing and reduced rent of £380.21  making 
£1,738.96 per month in total.
This means that while the delay meant that Miss M and Ms M were paying additional 
rent unnecessarily, it also meant they werent paying additional mortgage payments. 
Looked at in terms of their combined monthly outgoings on housing costs, they 
werent out of pocket because of the delay. Rather, the delay meant that their 
outgoings remained £237.17 per month lower for five months longer than would 
otherwise have been the case.
That means there is no direct financial loss to compensate Miss M and Ms M for  
they were not worse off, in the sense of having to pay more each month  as a result 
of the delay. 
However, they are worse off in terms of their overall financial position, because more 
of the money they were spending went on rent, and less on reducing the overall 
balance of their mortgage borrowing.
Nationwides offer of £919.48 fairly puts this right. Its the equivalent of five months 
worth of capital (but not interest) payments to their mortgage. In other words, its the 
amount their mortgage balance is higher by because it completed five months later 
than it ought to have done.
Im satisfied this fairly reflects Miss M and Ms Ms financial loss because of the delay. 
It compensates them for the additional amount theyll have to pay because their 
mortgage completed five months late  but it only does that if the amount was paid to 
their mortgage balance to reduce the balance. Because Nationwide paid this amount 
to Miss M and Ms M direct rather than reducing their mortgage balance, they will 
continue to pay additional interest on this sum for the remainder of the term.
Nationwide should therefore now give Miss M and Ms M the choice of using this 
redress payment to reduce their mortgage balance  compensating them for 
additional interest incurred by the balance being too high as well as for the balance 
itself.
If Miss M and Ms M choose to retain the compensation sum Nationwide paid them, it 
need not take any further action. But if they choose to use it to reduce their mortgage 
balance, Nationwide should apply it to their mortgage balance backdated to 1 November 2022, adjusting their current balance by removing interest charged on 
that sum since then accordingly.
Finally, Ive thought about whether the sum of £750 for distress and inconvenience is 
fair in all the circumstances. In doing so Ive taken account of the guidance on 
compensation on our website.1
The guidance says that compensation of up to £750 might be appropriate where the 
impact of a mistake has caused considerable distress, upset, and worry and / or 
significant inconvenience and disruption, typically where the impact lasts over many 
weeks or months or has a serious short-term impact.
And the guidance says that compensation of up to £1,500 might be fair where the 
impact caused substantial distress, upset and worry, which may include serious 
disruption to daily life over a sustained period with the impact felt over many months, 
or where there was a substantial short-term impact.
Ive considered everything Miss M and Ms M have said. Ive noted the considerable 
amount of inconvenience and disruption they were caused, having to spend large 
amounts of time chasing Nationwide, trying to find out how their application was 
progressing, as well as having to provide information repeatedly and in a piecemeal 
fashion. Ive also noted the significant worry the delay caused them because of their 
fears that the expiry of their shared ownership valuation might result in them having 
to find more money to staircase  though fortunately that didnt happen, Miss M and 
Ms M couldnt have known that and were right to worry that it might. And even when 
an offer was finally issued, there were further errors  with the problems with Miss 
Ms name almost meaning that completion didnt happen right up to the last possible 
minute. They also found it difficult to complain about their experience.
Taking everything into account, I think this was a very stressful and worrying time for 
Miss M and Ms M over several months, and particularly at the end as their purchase 
looked like it might not complete. I think £1,000 compensation is a fair sum that 
reflects everything that happened.
The responses to my provisional decision
Nationwide accepted my provisional decision  it said it would backdate the interest 
reduction to 31 October 2022 not 1 November 2022, as that was the date the additional 
borrowing was advanced and interest started being charged on it. It said that it would be fair 
to require Miss M and Ms M to make the payment to their mortgage balance within three 
months if they wanted to take that option.
Miss M and Ms M said that they should be paid £1,500 compensation following the guidance 
Id cited. They said they no longer had the money to pay into their mortgage, but that 
Nationwide should still remove the interest as if they had done so. And they provided further 
comments on the timeline I set out, including that despite what Nationwide had said no one 
was monitoring the advisers emails or actioning the application in his absence  Nationwide 
only took action when chased by Miss M and Ms M, which they had to do very frequently. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
1 https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-complaint/understanding-
compensation/compensation-for-distress-or-inconvenience reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also re-considered the findings I reached in my provisional decision in light of all the 
evidence, taking into account the further comments Miss M and Ms M and Nationwide have 
made. 
I agree with Miss M and Ms M that it doesnt seem that Nationwide was pro-actively 
progressing their application in the advisers absence  it was only after their first complaint 
that it finally moved ahead, and even then Nationwide made the further error with the names 
on the offer.
Overall, I do think £1,000 is fair compensation. The guidance I referred to in my provisional 
decision is guidance as to the general principles and cant cover every situation. Ive found 
that compensation in the band £750 - £1,500 is appropriate  but this is a band; the 
guidance says that up to £1,500  not excatly £1,500  might be fair in the sorts of 
circumstances set out. I do think Miss M and Ms M were caused substantial upset and 
inconvenience, and worry, over a sustained period, and that justifies a higher award of 
compensation than might ordinarily be the case for a delayed mortgage application. Ive 
taken into account the nature and extent of the contact Miss M and Ms M had to have with 
Nationwide to get matters progressed, as well as the worry that they might lose out on their 
staircasing application. I remain of the view that £1,000 is fair  in that while this is a case 
that merits significant compensation I dont think an award at the very top of the band is 
justified. 
Finally, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to reduce the 
interest charged as if Miss M and Ms M had paid the redress into their mortgage if they dont 
actually do so. I appreciate they might no longer have that sum available. But it was always 
an option to voluntarily pay it to their mortgage when they first received it, even if Nationwide 
didnt offer that. If Miss M and Ms M have spent the money on other things, it wouldnt be fair 
to reduce their mortgage balance as if theyd used it to overpay. That would give them both 
the benefit of having retained the funds for other purposes and the benefit of having used the 
funds to reduce their mortgage balance, and amount to over-compensation. 
However, it remains open to Miss M and Ms M to reduce their mortgage balance by that 
amount if they choose to do so, and if they do they will get the benefit of a backdated interest 
reduction. I agree with Nationwide that its fair to put a time limit on this offer  that ensures 
the interest re-calculation is related to the redress payment, rather than some future 
overpayment Miss M and Ms M might separately choose to make.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Nationwide Building Society to:
Offer Miss M and Ms M a further £250 compensation, making £1,000 in all; and
Give Miss M and Ms M the option of paying the £919.48 compensation for financial 
loss to their mortgage balance. If they choose to do so, Nationwide should waive any 
early repayment charge that may apply, and should backdate the payment to 
31 October 2022, re-calculating interest applied since that date and the mortgage 
balance accordingly. But Nationwide will only be required to do so if Miss M and 
Ms M make the payment to their mortgage within three months of the date they 
accept this decision, if they do. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Ms M 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman