DRN-1360386
The complaint
Mr M and Miss R say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2003 when they took out a further 
advance on their mortgage. Lloyds said the PPI wasn't mis-sold but refunded some 
commission and profit share it received from the premium. 
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M and Miss R disagreed, so 
Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr M and Miss Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasn't mis-sold because Mr M and Miss R signed a separate 
application form for the PPI, in which they specified how the benefit should be split between 
them. So, I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr M and Miss R didn't have to take out the PPI, 
and they chose to take it out. I can understand why they cant remember this given how long 
ago it was.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M and Miss R so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, they weren't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover, and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M and Miss R about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesn't look like they 
were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means Lloyds doesn't have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr M and Miss R.
But Lloyds has paid back some PPI cost to Mr M and Miss R because Lloyds got a high level 
of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have 
told Mr M and Miss R about that. Because Lloyds didn't tell Mr M and Miss R, that was 
unfair. To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M and Miss R have said. But these points dont change my 
decision.My final decision
The PPI wasn't mis-sold - so Lloyds Bank PLC doesn't have to pay back all the cost of the 
PPI to Mr M and Miss R. 
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr M and Miss R any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I don't award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman