DRN-2673159
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that Bradford and Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover a mortgage in 1987.
What happened
In my provisional decision sent in February 2021 I explained why I didnt think this
complaint should be upheld. I said:
As the policy only provided cover for Mr A I have mainly considered his circumstances at 
the time.
Ive provisionally decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
B&B had to make Mr and Mrs A aware the PPI was optional and gain their consent before 
adding the policy to their mortgage. Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs A would have 
been aware they had a choice in taking the policy.
I have looked at the paperwork available from the time the policy was sold. The application
form had a separate section for PPI where an amount of cover has been written as £100.
The application form has also been signed in agreement with the selections made on it.
From the information available I think Mr and Mrs A would have been aware the PPI was
separate to their lending and chose to have it.
B&B didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it
did have to make sure Mr A got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. Mr A has told us he was entitled to good sick pay when he took the policy and that Mr
and Mrs A had savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr As sick pay and
for longer than he would have received full pay. The PPI would also have helped protect Mr
and Mrs As savings so they could be used towards other essential expenses.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr As circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful
for Mr and Mrs A if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I
dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr A off taking out the cover.
So, B&B doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
I gave Mr and Mrs A and B&B time to respond to my provisional decision, but nothing further 
was provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But as neither side responded with anything further for me to consider I see no reason to 
come to a different decision to that explained above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman