DRN-4291701
The complaint
Mr W complains about the fees hes been charged when cancelling his motor insurance 
policy. Any reference to Action 365 Ltd includes the actions of its representative.  
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr W took out a motor insurance policy through his broker, Action 365. After he sold 
his car, he contacted Action 365 to cancel the policy. 
Five days later he received confirmation from Action 365 that the policy had been 
cancelled and what the outstanding balance was. 
Mr W complained to Action 365 because he thought: the £75 cancellation fee was 
excessive; it was unfair the fee for the additional products was payable in full even 
though the policy had been cancelled; it hadnt been made clear what a separate £30 
fee related to. 
He also said correspondence from Action 365 saying the outstanding debt would be 
passed to a debt collecting agency caused him stress, especially as hed been told 
this would be paused whilst his complaint was ongoing. 
Mr W paid the outstanding balance at the end of June. 
In its final response sent 11 July 2023, Action 365 said it was satisfied the charges 
had been applied fairly and that these were set out in the terms and conditions which 
had been provided to Mr W when he purchased and renewed the policy. 
Mr W remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it but didnt uphold it. Because Mr W disagreed, the complaint has been 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached  Ill explain why. 
Cancellation fee
The policy schedule details which fees are chargeable when the policy is cancelled 
outside the cooling off period. 
Mr W isnt disputing that a cancellation fee applies but rather that he considers it to 
be excessive. Im satisfied however, its in line with what this Service considers to be 
a reasonable amount for a broker to charge when cancelling a policy. 
From what Ive seen, only Action 365 has charged Mr W a cancellation fee - which 
this Service considers reasonable given it, rather than the insurer, is the party 
carrying out most of the administration. 
£30 fee
Mr W says it wasnt made clear to him what an additional £30 charge related to when 
cancelling his policy. Action 365 has confirmed this charge was the renewal fee. 
Ive seen this charge was stated on the policy schedule at the time of renewal. 
Furthermore, the terms and conditions state a new policy inception or renewal fee 
where commission is also received applies and that the fee will be up to £100  
depending on the type of policy. So, Im satisfied this was brought to Mr Ws 
attention.
Whilst Mr W wanted a prompt answer from Action 365 explaining what this fee 
related to, he said he was ultimately able to work this out for himself, and so, I 
consider any confusion to have been minimal.
Additional products 
With regards to the additional product premiums, the policy schedule says: Please 
note for additional products such as breakdown cover and legal expenses the FULL 
amount is due on cancellation, and any policy inception charges remain non-
refundable such as fees. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr W is unhappy about this charge applying, Im satisfied the 
policy clearly states these costs are to be paid on cancellation. 
Mr W has said he doesnt understand why these policies cant remain in place given 
theyre not specifically related to his car, and hes paid for them. But these products 
were taken out as add-ons to the motor insurance policy  and without the latter in 
place, there wouldnt be a policy for these additional products to be added to. 
Customer Service
Mr W says letters chasing the outstanding amount - which referenced debt recovery 
caused him stress  especially when hed been told these would be paused whilst his 
complaint was on going. 
Action 365 is entitled to recover outstanding fees. So, on the face of it, it telling Mr W 
it would pass the outstanding balance to a debt recovery firm if it wasnt paid, wasnt 
unfair. 
Mr W says Action 365 continued to send him correspondence chasing the 
outstanding amount even though he was told this would be paused. I can see Mr W 
spoke with Action 365 on 7 June and a follow up email was sent from it which said he 
should disregard any further letters about the outstanding debt until its final response 
had been issued  by which time Action 365 would have had a chance to review the 
outstanding debt.  
Mr W says he however, received correspondence the day after this chasing him for payment. I note this letter was dated 6 June and so, preceded the conversation he 
had with the agent. Mr W has said he was told such letters would be paused  but 
the email Ive seen from Action 365 doesnt reflect this. Rather, it says he should 
disregard any future correspondence  which indicates to me that Mr W knew he was 
likely to receive correspondence but that he shouldnt be concerned when he did as 
Action 365 were looking into things. So, I dont think its reasonable to say Action 365 
caused him avoidable stress with regards to this matter.  
Mr W complains it took a week for him to be told how much the outstanding balance 
was, and it was reasonable for him to expect an answer immediately upon cancelling 
the policy. Whilst I understand Mr W was keen to know how much he owed Action 
365, this information was shared with him five days after he cancelled the policy - 
and I dont consider that to be an unreasonable amount of time.
I understand Mr W had difficulties with Action 365s online chat and doesnt consider 
it to be fit for purpose. I appreciate this caused him frustration, but again, things were 
ultimately resolved in a reasonable amount of time, and so whilst Id expect Action 
365 to take on board Mr Ws feedback, I dont consider it necessary to direct it to pay 
compensation in respect of this.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman