DRN-3976826
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut wont refund the funds he lost in a scam. 
What happened
Mr S is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mr S throughout this decision. 
What Mr S says
Mr S says he received a call from someone who told him hed been able to locate money 
lost in a previous scam and could help Mr S to recover it. Although Mr S didnt know it at the 
time, the caller was a scammer. Mr S wasnt advised of any fees but was told the funds 
could be returned via a cryptocurrency platform. To complete the process, Mr S was 
required to send identification, so he provided a copy of his driving license and a photograph 
of himself. Mr S says the scammer sounded professional and spoke to him in his native 
language. 
Mr S was asked to download a device sharing app so that some details could be checked 
and the Revolut account opened. But the scammer used remote access to transfer Mr Ss 
entire balance from an account with another provider to the newly opened Revolut account. 
Mr S says the scammer then made an unauthorised transfer from the newly opened Revolut 
account to a cryptocurrency exchange. Mr S says he should be refunded the unauthorised 
transaction.  
Mr S contacted Revolut through its in-app chat on 15 August 2022 to report what had 
happened. Revolut didnt agree to refund Mr S but recognised that it didnt handle his claim 
well, as it didnt clearly set out next steps, and paid him £300 compensation.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
the value of the scam transaction was too low to expect Revolut to intervene as Revolut is 
an e-money provider and large payments from Revolut accounts are common. And as the 
funds went to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange there was no prospect of recovering them. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, he said:
- The payment was out of character and should have been blocked by Revoluts fraud 
systems. Mr S transferred £7,500 to a new payee from a newly opened account. The 
payment also went to a cryptocurrency exchange, and this is common in scams. In 
2018 Action Fraud warned about large payments being sent to cryptocurrency 
wallets and on to scammers so Revolut should have been aware of this type of fraud 
and taken steps to prevent it. 
- A newly opened account sending funds to a cryptocurrency exchange is a strong 
indicator of fraud and a money laundering concern. Revolut should be monitoring 
such trends.  
- Revolut shouldnt be held to a lower standard than a bank when considering if a 
payment is out of character.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued my provisional decision on 30 October 2023. 
In the What Ive provisionally decided  and why section of my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr S says that a fraudster used a device sharing app to open a Revolut account in his name 
and make a payment of £7,500 to a cryptocurrency exchange  in other words that the 
transaction is unauthorised.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Revolut can hold Mr S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence to determine whether I consider it more likely than not 
that the £7,500 transaction was authorised. Having done so, Im satisfied it was and will 
explain why. 
-A selfie of Mr S was required when the account was opened. Im confident that the 
person in the selfie provided to Revolut was the same person who communicated 
with Revolut to report the disputed transaction. At this stage Revolut required Mr S 
for a selfie to verify him. 
-Only one device has ever been registered to the Revolut account used to make the 
disputed transaction. There were no attempts to register another device either. Whilst 
there was an attempt to log in via a browser on the day of the scam this was declined 
and all transactions, including the scam and subsequent transactions, were made 
from the same device  Mr Ss registered device.
-I have seen evidence which shows that the payment to the cryptocurrency exchange 
was 3DS secured. This means that it went through a further layer of security. 3DS 
can only be confirmed via a mobile device.  
-The payment to the cryptocurrency exchange was made using a virtual card. When 
this card is used, a passcode is sent to customers mobile device to view the card 
details.
Given the points I have raised above I consider it unlikely that someone without access to Mr 
Ss phone could have made the payment. Mr S confirmed to Revolut that nobody had 
access to his phone. Overall, I dont consider it was possible for an unknown third party to 
transfer funds to a cryptocurrency exchange without Mr Ss knowledge and authorisation. 
Ive gone on to consider Mr Ss transaction as an authorised payment and have thought 
about whether Revolut did enough when it was made.  
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Revolut as 
an electronic money institute (EMI) to take additional steps or make additional checks 
before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, Im mindful Mr S didnt have an existing relationship with Revolut as the account 
was opened the day before the transaction. This means that Revolut didnt have an 
understanding of Mr Ss normal spending patterns. 
The reason given for opening the account was to make transfers, and this is what happened. 
On balance though, I consider that given the value of the payment, Revolut should have 
provided Mr S with a written warning that broadly covered scam risks at the time the 
payment was made. I cant see that this happened. Ive gone on to consider whether such a 
written warning would have made a difference in this case. Given that Mr S says he didnt 
complete the transaction, I cant fairly say it would. So Im not asking Revolut to do anything 
more. 
Im satisfied that the amount Revolut has paid Mr S in respect of the service he received 
more than compensates him for any service related failings.Overall, whilst Im very sorry to hear of Mr Ss loss, I cant reasonably hold Revolut 
responsible.
Revolut agreed with my provisional decision and Mr S representative said they wouldnt 
appeal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any new points for me to consider I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings (which I have reproduced above). 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman