DRN-3152092
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with how Soteria Insurance Limited (trading as Co-op) has handled his
claim for an escape of water on his home insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 September 2021 detailing my 
intention to uphold Mr Ls complaint, I said:
Co-op has used multiple contractors. But for ease, anything the third parties have said or 
done on behalf of Co-op will be referred to as Co-op unless otherwise stated.
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In December 2018, Mr L had a leak from his shower and made a claim on his home 
insurance policy.
Co-op accepted the claim and work began in January 2019 and drying the property was 
completed in February 2019.
However, work didnt start until April 2019 and the Co-op say the work was completed in 
February 2020.
Mr L raised complaints with the Co-op throughout the claim which Ive summarised.
Unnecessary and unfair delay in repairing the property  due to missed appointments 
and poorly organised repair work.
Poor communication from Co-ops representatives - that have lied and deliberately 
ignored Mr L, he feels Co-op has been unprofessional and not worked to a 
professional standard.
Other damage caused during repairs;
oLounge wall- Mr L wants it repaired and redecorate all lounge walls, so 
they match.
o Dishwasher damaged  Mr L wants it replaced.
o Garden wall  Mr L wants the costs covered to replace it.
Mr L feels the redress payment for the distress and inconvenience made by Co-op 
isnt adequate.
The property was left in a dirty state after the works.
Unhappy that the Co-op removed bathroom items and fixtures and then declared 
them beyond economical repair (BER) and didnt inform Mr L of this for several 
months.
Unhappy with Co-ops decision to stop the disturbance allowance.
Mr L doesnt agree that the job has been completed and Co-op didnt tell him this for 
several months.
Co-op offered redress of £250 in its January 2020 final response and a further £200 in its
August 2020 final response. In December 2020 it offered £186.75 as redress and a
settlement offer of £1,013.61 to cover the following costs;
£399 for dishwasher  (offered as a gesture of goodwill with no acceptance that it 
caused the damage)
£45.03 for electricity costs  for drying out the property
£210 to settle cleaning costs
£359.58 for repair and redecoration of living room wall  (offered as a gesture of 
goodwill with no acceptance it caused the damage)  it rejected decorating the other 
walls in the living room.
Co-op also said it previously offered £150 as settlement for the BER bathroom items. Co-op 
says it wouldnt be paying anything towards the garden wall as it has directly been dealt with 
by Mr L and it didnt accept liability for the alleged damage. It also didnt agree to extend 
paying the disturbance allowance as the policy limit (£20,000) was reached on 1 January 
2020.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He felt to put things right the Co-op should;
Lounge wall  Co-op can choose to repair and repaint it or offer a cash settlement 
that is reflective of all four walls being painted if unable to colour match.
Pay the accepted amount for the following items if it hasnt already done so;
o £399 for dishwasher
o £210 cleaning costs
o £45.03 electricity costs
o £150 BER bathroom items
Pay disturbance allowance up to completion of work or until it agrees a cash 
settlement with Mr L.
Increase the compensation for the trouble and upset caused from £636.75 to 
£900.00.
Mr L agreed with our investigator, but the Co-op hasnt agreed. It said the disturbance 
allowance (DA) was agreed in the early stages of the claim to provide specific support to Mr 
L whilst he didnt have shower facilities. It doesnt feel Mr L used the DA for its intended 
purposes.
It says the bulk of works had been completed in February 2020 with some snagging issues 
remaining, and additional visits in 2020 were to fix these as well as some private uninsured 
works.
It also said the living room wall wasnt damaged as a result of the escape of water and it only 
offered as a gesture of goodwill to fix and redecorate the one wall. This falls outside of the 
cover of the policy and it wont offer to do anything further unless it can be proven its 
responsible for the damage.
Finally, it said with regards to any further outstanding works it suggests the property is 
revisited so it can assess and identify any outstanding insurance works.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an ombudsman to make a decision.What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has raised a considerable number of issues in his correspondence with Co-op and this 
service. My role here is to focus on what I consider to be at the heart of the complaint, and I 
will only comment on those things relevant to the decision I need to make. That may mean I 
dont comment on everything Mr L has said, but I can confirm Ive thoroughly read and 
considered all the evidence submitted by the parties in reaching my decision.
I can empathise that this has been a really difficult time for Mr L and his family, Mr L has a 
disability that requires the use of a ground floor bathroom.
Delays
When considering this complaint, Im mindful that Co-op is required to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. I will be considering whether Co-op caused any unnecessary delays that 
could have been avoided while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
From what Ive seen Co-op has caused some considerable avoidable delays  problems in 
sourcing the right materials for example the shower unit, tiles etc There were also problems 
with the contractors Co-op appointed - deciding what work needed to be done and when. 
The different contractors contradicted one another on what works were required for example 
the lowering of the floor and changing the walls. This has all led to the work taking longer 
than it should. Mr L was left with an unusable bathroom the floor was left open for months 
causing smells to the rest of the property.
There were missed appointments as well as contractors turning up when they werent
booked in. This all had impact on Mr L and his family.
From what Ive seen the work shouldve taken roughly two months once the property was dry 
however it has taken in the region of a further 10 months to get a working bathroom and 
there are still snagging issues outstanding. Im persuaded compensation is due to Mr L for 
these delays.
Poor communication
There have been several different case handlers appointed to this claim and having more 
than one contractor has caused some confusion. This has ultimately led to some emails not 
being answered, Mr L has had to chase for responses and chase for payments of the DA. It 
is clear he wasnt always kept up to date on what was happening with the claim for example 
when works would be completed or why the DA was stopped etc. Overall, Im of the opinion 
the claim couldve been handled better. So, Ill be considering the impact of this in my award 
for compensation.
Damage caused during repairs
Lounge Wall - Mr L has alleged that the contractors have damaged his living room wall. And 
he's said as a result of a screw being put into the bathroom wall, a crack has emerged on 
the living room wall and due to the hammering and drilling on the other side the crack has 
grown and reached the ceiling.
Co-op has said it didn't cause this damage and wasn't responsible for the crack. I've 
considered the testimony and accounts of both parties - and it's clear that the parties do not agree on events. So, it's difficult for me to decide what most likely happened. However, 
taking into account the sum the Co-op has offered, as a gesture of goodwill, and this seems 
to me a reasonable sum to repair the damage - which in itself doesn't appear considerable.
So, whether or not B was responsible for the damage - I'm satisfied that its offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
There has since been discussion of colour matching walls - however I've been given nothing 
to suggest matching the paint of the existing walls wouldn't be possible so I wouldn't 
consider it necessary to direct B to pay anymore - even if I agreed it was responsible.
Dishwasher  Co-op have agreed to pay £399 for a replacement dishwasher as a gesture of 
goodwill. I think this is reasonable and wont be instructing it to do anything further.
Garden Wall  Co-op hasnt accepted liability for the damage to the wall, but Mr L has told 
us that the wall was damaged and stained white by the contractors. Ive looked at the 
photographs provided and although I can see the staining, I was unable to see any other 
damage.
I understand that Mr L has since had the wall fixed/removed. From the information I have, 
Im not persuaded that damage was caused so I wont be asking the Co-op to do anything 
further.
Cleaning
I understand Mr L was unhappy with the dust and mess left at his property during the works 
as no cleaning was done during the repairs. Im sure this wouldve been easier to cope with 
if the works had completed in a timely way, but I can understand Mr Ls frustration having to 
live in the mess for several more months. However, the Co-op has offered £210 to cover the 
costs of a final clean. I think this amount is reasonable and I dont intend to instruct it to do 
anything further although Ill consider the impact of this in the compensation award.
Bathroom items and fixtures
The Co-op have said the items are BER and have offered £150 to replace them. The amount 
offered appears to be fair but the time it took to tell Mr L what was happening, and this was 
after him having to chase the contractors wasnt reasonable. So, Ill consider this in the 
compensation that I award.
Disturbance allowance
Despite the name, disturbance allowance isnt compensation for disturbance or 
inconvenience. It is compensation for actual costs Mr L has incurred by remaining in his 
home.
Mr L is unhappy the Co-op stopped paying the allowance on 1 January 2020, when he still 
didnt have a working shower. Co-op said it stopped the payment as the policy limit of 
£20,000 had been reached. Having looked at the policy it does have a £20,000 limit.
However, Ive considered that Mr L still didnt have a working shower until the 12 February 
2020 and the delays were due to the Co-ops handling of Mr Ls claim. I therefore intend to 
instruct Co-op to continue to pay Mr L the disturbance allowance from the 1 January 2020 to 
the 12 February 2020 when a working shower was installed. I would not look to extend this 
any further as it appears to me the home was fully habitable from this point onwards and 
there would be no disturbance.Outstanding Insurance works
Mr L has told us that there are still outstanding works. Co-op said that other than what was 
listed in their FRLs the work has been completed since February 2020. Ive seen 
photographs Mr L has provided and the light fitting has not been replaced correctly, there are 
visible gaps between the tiles, there are exposed pipes and the room is still covered in 
yellow tape. This is not a comprehensive list. After our investigators view was sent to the 
Coop, it too provided some photographs for us to consider. Having looked at them it only 
shows the new shower unit and not the whole room, so Im not persuaded that this shows 
there are no outstanding works. Since our involvement Co-op have said its happy to re-visit 
Mr Ls property to identify any outstanding works/snagging. If this hasnt already happened, I 
instruct Co-op to arrange this visit and complete the outstanding work or make a settlement 
offer to return the room to its pre-loss state.
Compensation
Mr L has told us the impact of not having a ground floor working bathroom has had on him 
and his family. He is disabled and has had the inconvenience of having to go and use leisure 
facilities to have showers. When at home he has had to use a commode as the toilet wasnt 
accessible. He had to wait for his children to go out so that his wife could help him with toilet 
and clean-up, he felt this was degrading and has had an impact on his health and mental 
wellbeing. Theyve had to live for months with a smell coming up through the opened floor 
and living in dust and mess from what the contractors have left.
Mr L has also had to endure poor communication throughout the claim causing him more 
stress and anxiety.
I can see the Co-op have offered in the region of £636 in compensation to date. Having 
considered the delays in managing this claim and the impact that the delay has had on Mr L. 
I intend to instruct the Co-op to pay Mr L a further £1,500.
In my provisional decision
I intended to uphold this complaint and instruct Soteria Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay the accepted amount for the following items if it hasnt already done so;
o £399 for dishwasher
o £210 cleaning costs
o £45.03 electricity costs
o £150 BER bathroom items
Continue to pay disturbance allowance from 1 January 2020 to 12 February 2020.
Arrange for completion of bathroom works or agree a cash settlement.
Pay an additional £1,500 compensation (bringing the total compensation figure to 
£2,136.75).  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Co-op didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr Ls submissions span many pages. 
Within this decision I wont be responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a 
discourtesy, but a reflection of the informal nature of our service. My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I will only comment on those things I 
consider relevant to the decision I need to make. That may also mean I dont comment on 
everything Mr L has said but I can confirm I have read and considered everything he has 
said.
I can see from his response the depth of feeling Mr L has and he has urged for a maximum 
penalty, to stop Co-op treating other vulnerable customers in the same way. 
Id like to explain that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for the 
regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an informal 
dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the 
circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account 
relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business 
has failed its customer in any way. Where we find it has, we make awards designed to make 
the business put things right with the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to 
punish a business or to make it change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in 
the future. That is the role of the regulator.
Mr L feels the living room wall shouldve been fixed while the work was ongoing as now, he 
will need to have the upheaval of having the work done and this is the room he lives in. He 
wishes to be compensated for this and a further cleaning allowance offered. 
I can appreciate that this will cause more upheaval for Mr L but as Ive already said I feel the 
offer Co-op has made as a gesture of goodwill is fair and reasonable and I wont be 
instructing it to issue any further cleaning allowance.
Mr L has also said although the toilet and shower were installed in February 2020, he wasnt 
informed until mid-March 2020 that it could be used, and there was no door on the shower 
room until around this time either. The basin also wasnt installed until November 2020. He 
feels he is unable to use the steam, or shower at night as the light above the unit was not 
fitted properly and wires were hanging from the ceiling. This has caused him stress and 
anxiety as it could be dangerous. So, he feels the DA should be extended until the end of 
March 2020. 
From looking at the text messages and emails between Mr L and the contractor, I agree the 
bathroom was out of use until the door was installed given its close proximity to the kitchen. 
So, I will be directing the Co-op to extend the DA until 15 March 2020.
Beyond this date Mr M was still concerned about the safety of using the shower with the 
loose light fitting above. Ive been given nothing to show this is unsafe, but I understand why 
Mr L has concerns about it. I can see an exposed fitting of this nature above a shower may 
cause concern. And as I understand it this is still outstanding. As a result, I can see this has 
added to Mr Ls stress and anxiety so in addition to what I awarded within my provisional 
decision I will be directing Co-op to pay a further £300 compensation. 
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and instruct Soteria Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay the accepted amount for the following items if it hasnt already done so;
o £399 for dishwasher
o £210 cleaning costs
o £45.03 electricity costs
o £150 BER bathroom itemsContinue to pay disturbance allowance from 1 January 2020 to 15 March 2020.
Arrange for completion of bathroom works or agree a cash settlement.
Pay an additional £1,800 compensation (bringing the total compensation figure to 
£2,436.75).
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman