DRN-2786193
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Starling Bank Limited has registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Mr Z says he found out about this marker when he lost his employment. He has shown that 
the company he worked for said there were a number of CIFAS markers against his name. 
He says that he had an account with Starling Bank but hadnt received a false instrument as 
claimed in its CIFAS entry about him.
Starling Bank said that it had closed his account on 9 April 2019 and wouldnt be providing 
any further explanation. And that it had reviewed the marker and said it remained 
appropriate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that on 4 April 2019 
Mr Z had received £800 into his account. He had quickly transferred this to a different 
financial business. On 5 April 2019 in response to an email from Starling Bank he had said 
that this was a payment for selling a product alongside the person whose name was quoted 
with the payment. Starling Bank wasnt satisfied with that explanation and had received 
information that the money had been obtained fraudulently through a loan application. 
Mr Z had now told him that he didnt send the email in April 2019. He had no involvement 
with the other person named. He had received the money and treated it as extra money and 
if someone had accidentally paid it to him then he was lucky. It wasnt fraud to move this 
money on and he did this to protect the money as his account may be hacked.
Our investigator didnt accept Mr Zs explanation as a plausible one as there was no reason 
why an unrelated third party would make a false application and arrange for the money to be 
paid into Mr Zs account allowing him benefit from this.
Mr Z didnt agree. He said that the other CIFAS markers had no bearing here. And he 
thought that any reference to them tainted the assessment. Those markers were completely 
different ones. He had received this money and transferred it to a different account. He said 
he was prepared to send it back. But he would have complained about this as someone had 
sent it to him whether mistakenly or not. Mr Z said he had personally sent money to an 
incorrect account number in the past and didnt get it back. If he had to return this money he 
would have done so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Starling Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Ive seen evidence that this money originated from a fraudulent loan application. At the time 
Starling Bank believed Mr Z had given it a completely false explanation of how he came by 
this money. And so, it closed his account. Even if as Mr Z says a fraudster somehow also 
intercepted his email account to provide this information to Starling Bank, Mr Z then knew his 
account was abruptly closed and on his version of events for no reason.
Weve now been able to take into account Mr Zs full explanation. And like the investigator I 
find it highly unlikely that this fraudulently obtained money would have been paid into Mr Zs 
account by mistake. The loan application was supported with information with his sort code 
and account number.
I also find Mr Zs actions in moving this money to an account at a different financial business 
in his name within ten minutes of receipt also consistent with him knowing these funds 
werent due to him. If this was a mistake and he wasnt involved Ive have reasonably 
expected him to have raised this with Starling Bank. And although not impossible for his 
email account to be hacked I cant see why a fraudster would have tried to exonerate Mr Z 
as the email seemed to. By then the money had been moved on.
Frankly I find Mr Zs explanation implausible. I also want to say that I place no weight in 
reaching that finding on any other CIFAS markers in his name. That was the reason why the 
investigator referred to them too and I know that this service is looking at separate 
complaints about those
Starling Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr Z received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Starling Bank was fair to apply the marker, 
based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Starling Bank needs to have enough information to 
make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Zs account of events and the evidence Starling Bank has provided, Im 
satisfied that Starling Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr Z received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Starling Bank 
at the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Starling Bank had grounds to believe that Mr Z had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I appreciate what Mr Z has said about the potential consequences of this and other CIFAS 
markers for his employment. But Im afraid I dont have a reasonable basis to require 
Starling Bank to do anything further about this marker.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman