DRN-1661153
 
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim 
made against his car insurance policy. 
 What happened
Mrs J, a named driver, was involved in a collision with another car in December 2016. The 
other driver made a claim against Mr Js policy. Admiral decided to settle the claim as a fault 
claim. 
Mr J complained to Admiral. Admiral accepted it failed to keep Mr J updated - although it 
said the solicitor dealing with the claim on their behalf had provided updates.  Admiral 
agreed the solicitor had incorrectly told Mr J the impact of the claim wouldnt affect future 
premiums. 
Mr J asked us to look at his complaint. He raised wider concerns about the dealing and 
settling of claims, our role and the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. In summary he 
didnt agree with Admirals liability decision and its decision to settle a personal injury claim 
from the third party. Mr J said they werent informed that a pending court hearing had been 
cancelled as Admiral decided to settle the claim. 
Our investigator thought Admiral should have been clearer in explaining to Mr J why it 
instructed solicitors to act on their behalf. And he thought Admiral failed to manage Mr and 
Mrs Js expectations when the solicitor incorrectly advised that the claim would have no 
impact on future premiums. So for its failings here, the investigator recommended Admiral 
pay compensation of £200.
The investigator thought Admiral had done enough to resolve the remaining complaints. He 
explained that it isnt for us to decide liability as this is the role of the courts. He was satisfied 
that Admiral had properly considered the claim and in line with the policy, had reached its 
decision as to how best to settle it. 
Mr J didnt agree. He is of the view there is very strong evidence in their favour to uphold 
their complaints. He doesnt agree with the claims process and how Admiral has reached its 
decision. 
Admiral hasnt confirmed whether it accepts the investigators recommendation to pay 
compensation of £200. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint - including recordings of Mr Js key calls 
with our investigator. 
As the investigator explained, we dont decide liability. We can look at whether an insurer 
has reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. This is a subtle but important 
distinction to make. Mr Js policy with Admiral says that it can take over the defence and 
settlement of a claim as it sees fit. This means Admiral might make a decision Mr J 
disagrees with, but the policy allows Admiral to do this. We dont disagree with this term in 
principle, provided Admiral can show it treated its customer fairly when applying it. Our role 
is to take an even handed approach to the information provided by both parties - and to look 
at each case on its own merits. 
I understand Mr Js strength of feeling about our role and the process both we and the 
insurer has followed. My decision is based on the complaints we can look at and whether 
Admiral has acted in a fair and reasonable way. 
Admiral and solicitors acting for it considered the information provided by both parties. Up 
until March 2019 it intended to defend against the third party claim. However, further legal 
opinion was sought following a review of witness statements from both Mrs J and the third 
party. In May 2019 Admiral decided to instead settle the third party claim on the basis of the 
legal advice it received. Admirals notes show the solicitor made it aware that Mr J was 
unhappy with their decision. So Im satisfied that from May 2019 Mr and Mrs J were aware 
that the claim wasnt going to go to court in August 2019 as planned. 
Mr J is particularly unhappy with the fact that medical evidence was provided by the third 
party seven months after the date of the incident. And hes questioned the validity of that 
evidence. However, a report was provided by a medical professional following an 
examination of the third party. And Admiral was aware of the injury in January 2017 and 
alerted Mr J to the possibility of an injury claim from the third party before it received the 
medical report. 
Mr J reported the damage to their car was very minor. No police report was available and 
there were no independent witnesses or CCTV. Overall I think Admirals decision to settle 
the claim as a fault claim was reached in a reasonable way. It referred the claim to its 
solicitor and they ultimately decided how best to settle the claim based on their professional 
opinion - as it is entitled to do under the policy. I understand Mr Js strength of feeling on the 
issue. But Admiral can decide its better to settle a claim based on its prospects of success 
rather than risk significant costs of going to court. So Admiral didnt agree for the legal 
expenses of the claim to be considered under the Motor Legal Protection part of the policy.
So as Admiral decided to settle the third party claim, I think it was correctly recorded as a 
fault claim. 
 Putting things right
I think Admiral should have updated Mr and Mrs J to explain it had passed the claim to 
solicitors to deal with. And theres no dispute that Mr J was incorrectly advised that the claim 
wouldnt have an impact on future premiums. I think Admiral should pay compensation for its 
failings here and I think £200 is a fair sum and in line with awards we give in cases similar to 
Mr and Mrs Js. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr J £200 compensation for the poor service it provided. 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman