DRN-3174126
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way National House-Building Council trading as NHBC 
(NHBC) have handled a claim on her Buildmark policy following water damage to her 
home. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well know to both parties and largely not in dispute so Ill 
only summarise it here.
Miss M observed water stains to her kitchen ceiling and engaged a builder to 
investigate the cause. And she notified NHBC and subsequently provided it with a 
copy of the builders report.
NHBC accepted the claim and offered a cash settlement for the works it said were 
required.
Miss M wasnt happy with the settlement and disputed the scope of works which 
didnt address all the work outlined in the report from her builder. She also advised of 
water damage to other parts of her home.
NHBS considered the new damage, to the lounge ceiling, wasnt related to the 
original claim, and dealt with it as a sperate incident. And after investigating the claim 
it said the damage wasnt caused by a defect covered under the policy, so it declined 
this claim.
Miss M obtained an engineers report in addition to the report shed received from her 
builder and this recommended repointing of the property to prevent further damp 
ingress. 
Miss M wasnt happy the claim being declined and complained to NHBC. She 
instructed her builders to proceed with the works the builder and her engineer had 
recommended and asked NHBC to reimburse her for the costs and for the 
inconvenience shed experienced.
In its final response NHBC confirmed the declinature of the second claim and Miss M 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt feel there was enough evidence to suggest that the staining to 
the lounge ceiling was due to a defect covered under the Buildmark Policy. She 
noted the structural engineers and builder had recommended the whole property be 
repointed, and cavity trays be fitted to prevent future damp issues. But she felt NHBC 
are only required to pay the cost of putting right a defect if it has caused damage and 
couldnt recommend NHBC pay the full costs Miss M incurred.
Miss M remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide her case
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our Investigators decision, and largely for the same reasons.
I note NHBC accepted the first claim Miss M made, for damage to her kitchen ceiling. The 
policy terms and conditions set out that it must either carry out the necessary repairs or pay 
the amount it wouldve cost them to put right the defects. Miss M used her own builders and 
therefore NHBC made a cash settlement. Ive seen the schedule of works prepared by 
NHBC and am satisfied it includes all the works required to put right the damage caused by 
the defects identified, and the cash settlement is fair.
In respect of the second claim, for damage to the living room Ive considered all the reports 
provided and am not persuaded that the damage to the living room is caused by the house 
builder not complying with NHBC Technical Requirements during construction. The 
Buildmark policy, like all insurance policies covers specific events set out in the policy. 
Section 3 of the policy states the following:
What NHBC will do
1) We will pay you the full Cost, if it is more than £1,200 Indexed, of putting right any
physical damage to your Home which is caused by a Defect in respect of any of the 
following
parts of your house, bungalow, maisonette or flat, or its garage or other permanent 
outbuildings:
a) foundations;
b) load-bearing walls;
c) non load-bearing partition walls;
d) wet-applied wall plaster;
e) external cladding, curtain walling, external render
and external vertical tile hanging;
f) load-bearing parts of the roof;
g) roof coverings;
h) ceilings;
i) load-bearing parts of the floors;
j) staircases and internal floor decking and screeds where these fail to support normal 
loads;
k) retaining walls necessary for the structural stability of the house, bungalow, flat or
maisonette, its garage or other permanent outbuilding;
l) double-glazing or triple-glazing panes to external windows and doors;
m) below-ground drainage for which you are responsible.
Alternatively, we may at our option arrange to get the necessary work done at our 
expense.
NHBC have identified the staining on the living room ceiling is approximately 400mm from 
the rear wall, and in a different part of the house to the damage it accepted the claim for. It 
has also shown damp readings showing no signs of raised moisture levels. It suggests these 
findings indicate the damage is not caused by penetrating dampness to the wall, and the 
most likely cause of the damage was a discharge of water in the bathroom above the 
lounge.
I dont doubt the content of the reports Miss M has provided, and indeed NHBC accept there 
were defects that caused damage to the kitchen ceiling. However, these reports do not 
specifically mention the damage to the lounge ceiling or how it was caused. 
Im also mindful that the engineers report recommends work to prevent further damp ingress, 
specifically repointing the whole of the property. The policy pays for damage that has 
occurred and its not reasonable for NHBC to pay for damage that hasnt occurred.I do appreciate this will have been a difficult time for Miss M given the extent of the works 
carried out to her home. But I cant expect NHBC to pay for alternative accommodation as 
the works necessary to repair the damage covered under the policy did not necessitate her 
leaving the property. And an element of disruption whilst repairs are carried out is inevitable.
In the circumstances of this case I find that NHBC have acted reasonably and I wont be 
asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman