DRN-4010211
The complaint
Miss M says Santander UK Plc (Santander) miscalculated her Decision in Principle (DIP).
What happened
Miss M held a fixed rate repayment mortgage with Santander which she was tied into until 
October 2023. She approached Santander to discuss porting her mortgage and increasing 
her borrowing in order to purchase a new home. Santander confirmed Miss M could port her 
existing mortgage within 90 days of selling her existing property and she was later given a 
DIP which said she could borrow up to £315,000 subject to affordability checks.
Miss M says Santander told her any new application would be based on the purchase price 
of the property. But an estate agent then told her it would be based on the home report 
value. Miss M says she contacted Santander for clarification but was reassured she could 
borrow up to the DIP amount. Miss M says she relied on this information when she looked 
for a new home. 
Miss M found a property she wished to purchase and put in an offer of £345,000. She 
thought this was affordable based on the DIP she had as well as the savings she would have 
from the sale of her existing home. Miss M started an application with Santander on 
1 July 2022 but was told she wouldnt have enough funds. Santander said, based on the 
figures she had provided, it was only prepared to lend £294,416. Miss M says this forced her 
to apply for a mortgage with a third-party lender and she had to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC) of £4,865.24. Miss M thinks Santander should refund her in the 
circumstances. 
Santander looked into Miss Ms concerns and agreed she was given some incorrect 
information, but it didnt think this meant it was responsible for the ERC. It said a 
representative Miss M spoke to advised her that as long as the purchase price she was 
paying was less than the value on the DIP then everything would be fine. And that if she paid 
over the amount showing on the DIP then she would need to come back to Santander for a 
new quote. Santander confirmed this was incorrect as the amount shown on the DIP was the 
maximum it was prepared to lend her. 
Santander said it was sorry for any confusion caused, but confirmed the funds werent 
guaranteed until a full application was reviewed. Santander said Miss Ms pension hadnt 
previously been considered, so it couldnt lend enough for her to go ahead with the purchase 
based on the purchase price shed agreed. Santander apologised that Miss M wasnt given 
the right information initially, and it offered her £150 to say sorry for that, but it said it was her 
decision to proceed with another lender, so she is responsible for the ERC in those 
circumstances. 
Miss M says Santander was already aware of her pension contributions when the first DIP 
was given to her, so she referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
Miss Ms concerns, but they didnt think Santander needed to do anything more. As Miss M 
disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Miss Ms complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why.
Santander has accepted that Miss M was given incorrect information about her DIP and that 
this may have had an impact on her decision. But its said this based on Miss M being 
incorrectly told she could potentially increase her DIP if the purchase price was higher. While 
this information was incorrect, as shed already been given the maximum figure, I dont think 
this had much impact on Miss Ms decision. I say this because Miss M wouldnt have needed 
to increase the amount offered if it was accurate. 
The real problem is that the DIP turned out to have been higher than it should have been. I 
understand this was because Miss Ms regular pension contribution hadnt been fully 
factored in and Miss M also had more debt than previously advised. So, I need to decide 
whether Miss Ms pension should have been factored in previously, and if so, what impact 
this would have had on Miss Ms decision. 
Ive listened to a call Miss M had with Santander in March 2023. During the call, the 
representative asked Miss M to confirm both her gross and net basic income. Miss M gave 
her gross income but was unable to confirm her net income. Miss M referred to pension 
contributions and confirmed she makes a salary sacrifice, but she didnt say what 
percentage of her salary was taken for this. She went on to give her exact monthly take 
home pay. The adviser asked her if this included all deductions and Miss M confirmed it did, 
so they went on to ask about other commitments. Miss M confirmed she had a car hire loan 
and a credit card with a balance of around £5,000 on it. Miss M said she would clear the 
balance the next month with her annual bonus, so this didnt need to be factored in. Based 
on this information, the representative advised Miss M how much she could borrow but 
confirmed this was subject to a full application. 
Im satisfied Miss M thought Santander was aware she was contributing to her pension. That 
said, the figures werent specific so I think Miss M would have known the amount she could 
borrow wasnt entirely accurate. In addition, the offer Miss M made on the new property 
appears to have stretched her finances to the maximum, and instead of paying off her 
£5,000 credit card debt as previously advised, she had increased the balance by £4,000. So, 
even though Miss Ms pension wasnt factored in when it should have been, I dont think this 
was the sole reason Miss Ms DIP was higher than it should have been, and I dont think 
thats entirely Santanders fault. 
Based on the above, I think Miss M should have anticipated a reduction in the amount she 
could borrow. And even if everything had stayed the same, Miss M was aware the DIP 
wasnt a final offer and that it was only an indication of what she could borrow.
On 1 July 2022, Miss M contacted Santander to confirm shed accepted an offer on her 
home and had had an offer accepted on a property she wished to purchase. She said she 
wanted to run through some figures with someone as she was concerned the figures didnt 
add up in the previous conversation shed had. So, it seems Miss M was already aware 
something wasnt right. The representative confirmed Miss Ms finances with her. I note they 
said they had a different bonus figure on their records. And, this time, Miss M confirmed the 
salary sacrifice for her pension was 5%. Based on all of this information, the representative 
confirmed there was a shortfall. Miss M said she was looking to borrow an additional £146,000 on top of her existing 
mortgage, but the representative confirmed this was coming up as unaffordable. Miss M said 
she can make it work she just wanted to know what sum Santander could lend. The 
representative confirmed £131,000 in addition to her existing mortgage. Miss M said the DIP 
said she could purchase a property for £332,427, so she wanted to know the maximum 
figure she could borrow. The representative confirmed £294,000 was the maximum. Miss M 
expressed that this was significantly lower than the DIP. And Miss M felt the DIP should 
have been a closer estimate. 
I agree with Miss M that its reasonable to think the DIP would be more accurate than it was. 
But as Ive said above, Miss M knew that shed only given very basic information about her 
salary sacrifice and that her unsecured debt was at least £9,000 when it was meant to be 
zero. Because of this, I think Miss M could have anticipated there was a greater potential for 
the figure to be wrong. And while I think Santander should have done more to make sure the 
pension contribution was reflected in the DIP, I still think there would have been a shortfall, 
so I think the £150 compensation Santanders already offered is a fair way to say sorry for its 
part in the confusion caused.
I know Miss M thinks Santander should refund the ERC as a result, but I dont think 
Santander is responsible for that and Ill explain why.
Miss M found out about the shortfall fairly quickly, so I think she still had time to choose how 
to proceed. And after finding out about the shortfall, Miss M called Santander back later the 
same day to confirm what the ERC would be. So, Miss M was fully aware how much she 
would have to pay to end her mortgage agreement with Santander early. And because of 
this, I think its more likely than not, Miss M would have chosen to go to another lender to 
purchase the property she wanted even if Santander had given her a lower estimate in the 
first instance. 
I say this because Miss M had other choices available to her. If Miss M wanted to avoid 
paying an ERC she could have chosen to remain in her existing home until her fixed rate 
ended  around one year later. Or, she could have looked for a different property within the 
new limit Santander advised her of. Instead, Miss M decided to proceed with a different 
lender so she could purchase the home she wanted and that was her choice. Ultimately, 
Miss M entered into an agreement with Santander that she was tied into up until 
October 2023. She was aware at the time that if she broke the agreement early, she would 
have to pay a charge and thats what she decided to do.Considering everything, I think Santander could have done more to make the DIP as 
accurate as possible. But it was never guaranteed, and Miss Ms situation had changed by 
the time she wanted to apply for the additional borrowing. Miss M still had choices available 
to her if she wanted to avoid paying the ERC, but she decided to proceed with the purchase 
through another lender and I dont think it would be fair to expect Santander to refund her for 
that. Santander has offered £150 to say sorry for its part in any confusion caused and I think 
this is fair in the circumstances. 
If Miss M now wishes to accept the £150 compensation Santander offered, she can sign and 
return the attached settlement form.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman