DRN-3576698
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard lent irresponsibly to her 
on a credit card account.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mrs V and Barclays. In my decision, 
Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mrs V opened a credit card account with Barclays in 2014 with an initial account limit of 
£2,000. Since then, the account limit has increased on a number of occasions, but also 
decreased on two occasions (2017 and 2020). 
In 2020 Mrs V let Barclays know she was experiencing financial difficulty. Barclays carried 
out an affordability assessment with the aim of agreeing a way forward - to allow Mrs V time 
for her financial circumstances to positively change. But ultimately Mrs V was unable to 
resume her minimum contractual repayments or clear the arrears and this credit card 
account was reported as defaulted. 
Mrs V complained to Barclays as she felt it should have been apparent to Barclays that she 
would be unable to repay her balance within a reasonable time frame given her financial  
and personal circumstances  in particular given that she had other outstanding credit 
commitments. Barclays didnt uphold her complaint and Mrs V referred it to our Service for 
an independent review.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Barclays then made an 
offer to Mrs V and shes said before she decides if she accepts it, she wants her complaint 
reconsidered by our Service - so its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Where theres differing 
versions of events, Ive to reach my decision based on what I think is more likely than not  
based on the available evidence. 
The lending 
Before increasing the credit limit available to Mrs V - as a responsible lender, Barclays were 
required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of her ability to sustainably 
repay the debt. This is often referred to as an affordability check. These checks had to be 
borrower-focussed and theres no set list of checks that Barclays were required to carry out. 
This means they needed to be focussed on whether Mrs V could sustainably afford the 
borrowing (based on her specific circumstances). Importantly, these checks also had to be 
proportionate. I point this out as I note Mrs V has made numerous references to information 
she feels was important and should have been considered by Barclays, which she feels 
would have painted a different picture of her financial situation. 
Based on what Ive seen, Barclays did carry out fair and proportionate checks before 
increasing the credit limit. I wont repeat the detail of these checks as its already been 
explained in detail by our Investigator. In simple terms, Mrs V was within the risk threshold 
Barclays applied prior to each increase. 
Ive also had a detailed look at the monthly statements related to this account (across a 
number of years) and the relevant credit reference agency information - to see how Mrs V 
managed this account. In summary, generally Mrs V managed the account well. It also 
shows on occasions she paid much more than the minimum contractual repayment she was 
required to make and - on at least one occasion, she cleared the balance in its entirety. 
This evidence - at face value, doesnt immediately point towards obvious concerns that 
Barclays should have picked up on before increasing her credit limit and instead, shows an 
account that was reasonably well managed and kept in good standing. I note what Mrs V 
has said about other borrowing she had, but as outlined, Barclays checks needed to be 
proportionate - and Im satisfied they were. Its worth noting that at the point of each increase 
Mrs V had the option of declining it.
In summary, I havent found sufficient, persuasive evidence to conclude that Barclays lent 
irresponsibly to Mrs V. Its unfortunate that she experienced a change in financial 
circumstances around 2020. But at the point of each credit limit increase Im not persuaded 
that Barclays did anything wrong. 
The financial difficulties 
I note that Barclays decreased Mrs Vs credit limit in January 2020 and theyve told us there 
were other occasions where they were unable to decrease the limit as her outstanding 
balance wouldve exceeded it. 
I also note that Mrs V declined a COVID-19 payment deferral as interest wouldve continued 
to accrue on the account  even if it meant a temporary period of three months where she 
wouldnt need to make any repayments. I cant say it was wrong of Barclays to offer this 
support and it was Mrs Vs choice to decline it. 
Given what Ive seen of Mrs Vs affordability (through an affordability assessment), the 
options Barclays could offer to support her were extremely limited in November 2020 (the 
point at which she clearly made her difficulties known to them) as her repayments were 
unaffordable and given what Mrs V had told Barclays about her dependants - she had higher 
priority cost of living bills. Crucially, Ive seen nothing to suggest that there was any solid 
indication of a likely positive change in Mrs Vs financial circumstances in the near future. 
Barclays suggested she speak to a third party debt charity and advised that interest and 
charges would be frozen, but a default registered. Mrs V agreed to this plan and it meant she 
could repay what was affordable to her and that shes made token payments since. 
On balance, I dont find that Barclays treated Mrs V unfairly or unreasonably. Based on what 
Ive seen there was no realistic chance that shed be able to return to her agreed minimum 
contractual repayments in the immediate future and given the picture painted by the 
affordability assessment - I find the registering of the default to be fair. The realistic alternative here was to let interest and fees build up - but this would increase 
the debt and wouldnt have been a responsible action by Barclays. Its important to say that 
this doesnt contradict what Ive found about the COVID-19 payment deferral option shed 
previously declined. This is because the COVID-19 payment deferral was intended to 
temporarily help customers negatively impacted by the pandemic. But as outlined, Mrs Vs 
financial difficulties werent solely related to the pandemic and there was no indication that 
shed see a positive change in the near future to allow her to return to her minimum 
repayments.  
It's very positive that Barclays made an offer to refund (by way of offsetting against the 
outstanding balance) interest and fees totalling around £1,700. Mrs V should now either 
communicate her acceptance of this offer to Barclays or our Service - so they can make the 
necessary arrangements to pay it. I cant advise Mrs V about accepting it, but it will reduce 
the outstanding balance. 
Overall, I know my decision will disappoint Mrs V. But it brings to an end our Services 
involvement in trying to informally resolve her dispute with Barclays.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman