DRN-4463369
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Mr F received some credits into his account, which he quickly spent. Monzo were informed 
that the money Mr F received and spent came from fraud.
Monzo questioned Mr F, who claimed he was entitled to the money for goods hed sold. He 
offered to provide a screenshot of his contact with the buyers, but then he stopped replying 
to Monzo. Monzo chased him for this evidence and left a voicemail, but didnt hear back. So 
they closed Mr Fs account and registered a marker against him at CIFAS.
Mr F later complained. He said someone he knew was selling the goods and asked him to 
receive the money as they didnt have their own account. He said he withdrew the money in 
cash and handed it to them, then they ignored him when his account was blocked. He said 
Monzo never gave him a chance to evidence his side of things. He also said he didnt have 
any evidence anymore, as all the messages had been deleted. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F 
appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Monzo were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr F had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which 
had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, I think Monzo did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. Ill 
explain why.
Monzo were officially notified that the money Mr F received came from fraud.
Mr F then told Monzo that he deliberately received that money. He tried to claim entitlement 
to the funds, claiming it was for goods hed sold himself.
Mr F later told the story about his friend. He said he withdrew the money in cash and gave it 
over. But Mr F didnt withdraw it, he actually quickly spent the money he received, such as in 
shops, on a bank transfer to a long-standing payee with the same last name as him, and on 
car insurance. As far as I can see, Mr F was the main person who benefitted from the fraud.
Mr F now says he paid the money in cash to his friend, using cash he already had on hand. 
But this directly contradicts his previous testimonies  before, he said he took out the credits 
in cash to hand over, and before that he said the money was his for goods hed sold and 
didnt mention this friend. So I cant take this latest testimony as being reliable. And theres 
no evidence of him handing such cash to anyone.
Indeed, Mr Fs latest version of events is not supported by any evidence. So I have nothing 
to show that this friend even exists, let alone that Mr F agreed to receive money for them or 
that he passed any money onto them. And again, at first Mr F did not mention any friend and 
instead claimed the money as being his own.
While Mr F claims Monzo didnt give him a chance to evidence his side of things, I can see 
that the opposite is true. Monzo asked Mr F for evidence, and Mr F told them he could 
provide screenshots of messages with the people who sent him money. But then he never 
provided this and ignored Monzos chasers. Its unlikely that Mr F would let this evidence get 
deleted or decline to provide it if it wouldve evidenced that he was innocent.
In summary, Mr F received and spent fraudulent funds, which he initially tried to claim he 
was entitled to. His testimony has been inconsistent, unreliable, and at points clearly untrue. 
There is no evidence which supports his side of things, even when he previously said he 
could provide such evidence. Theres no evidence which shows or substantiates that Mr F 
was uninvolved with the fraud, and theres no evidence which shows or substantiates that 
Mr F was an unwitting participant in the fraud. As far as I can see, Mr F was the main 
beneficiary of the fraud and was actively involved in receiving and spending the proceeds.
On that basis, it seems fair that Monzo registered the appropriate marker with CIFAS. It 
follows that it was also fair for them to block and close Mr Fs account, which they were 
allowed to do under the terms. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a 
difficult message for Mr F to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of 
probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman