DRN-1780328
 
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc wont refund a payment made on her 
credit card to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website). 
What happened
In July 2019 three tickets were purchased through the Website to attend a Musical using a 
Tesco credit card. The total cost being just over £250. But later Mrs F discovered the face 
value of the tickets was around £30 each. She says she contacted the Website to sort the 
matter out but was unsuccessful with it. So Mrs F asked Tesco to help and asked it to raise a 
chargeback.
Tesco looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. This was because it didnt think 
it could do a chargeback because it didnt have a reasonable prospect of success. It also 
thought a Section 75 claim would also be unsuccessful. It thought this purchase didnt fit the 
financial limits of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and even if it did, it wasnt persuaded there 
had been a breach or misrepresentation.
Mrs F didnt think this was fair, so she brought the complaint to our service. Mrs F has since 
explained that the Musical didnt take place and she doesnt know what to do with the tickets 
she has.
Our investigator looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think Tesco had acted unfairly by 
declining Mrs Fs request for a refund. Mrs F didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about Tesco, as Mrs Fs credit card account provider. Its not about the 
Website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Im only 
considering whether Mrs F authorised Tesco to debit the account with the value of the 
payment, and whether it should have helped with the dispute with the Website in any other 
way.
Mrs F says she made this transaction for these tickets, knew the amount she was paying 
and was willing to purchase the tickets at that price. Only afterwards did she find out the face 
value and says if shed known this she wouldnt have bought them. She doesnt argue she 
didnt go to the website and buy the tickets on her credit card. So having considered what 
Mrs F has said (including that she made this purchase and paid for the tickets) and the 
evidence of Tesco Im satisfied the transaction was properly authorised and correctly applied 
to Mrs Fs credit card account with Tesco. 
could Tesco challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant, as Mrs F does 
here, Tesco (as the card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. Generally we say its fair for a 
card issuer to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment - if theres a reasonable 
prospect of success, for example where goods arent received, or it appears that the 
payment wasnt properly authorised by the cardholder.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features to this one, where chargeback has 
been successful. But I dont think Tesco couldve challenged the payment on the basis 
Mrs F didnt properly authorise the transaction, given the conclusion Ive already set out.
As far as Mrs F is concerned the crux of the complaint is that when going through the 
purchase process, she didnt know what the face value of the tickets was. And had she 
known she wouldnt have paid what she did for them. Tescos argument is that under the 
chargeback scheme there isnt an appropriate chargeback reason and that there isnt a 
reasonable prospect of success. 
To decide this matter the test I must apply here is balance of probabilities or in other words 
what do I think was more likely to have happened.
Having considered the Website it is clearly a secondary ticket selling Website. Im not 
persuaded the website looks like its the theatres (where the Musical is staged) website. Mrs 
F has argued this and pointed to medication that she was on at the time. I think its clear the 
tickets are being purchased through the website from a seller (who isnt representing the 
website). 
Tesco is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. Bearing in mind Mrs F 
says she wanted to buy the tickets at that price, authorised the transaction and got the 
tickets, Tescos decision that there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success in a chargeback 
is fair and reasonable in my opinion. So I think it acted fairly in not raising a chargeback.
how about Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mrs Fs Tescos credit card. Under section 75, in certain 
circumstances, she has an equal right to claim against Tesco as she does against the 
supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. 
For a valid claim under Section 75 there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in 
place. The Websites terms and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange. [Websites name] provides a service that allows members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites 
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent supplied by the Website. But that the Website does 
provide a service. And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website says 
it:
charges a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service.
So in effect, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mrs F, Tesco and the 
Website, albeit not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website 
provides a service. The service consists of two main things - the platform and the guarantee. So I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such as venue, date, time, 
seat location and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee, 
its responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if the seller doesnt fulfil their 
obligations around supplying the tickets.  
Another condition necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided 
by the Website must have a cash price of more than £100. For three tickets just over £250 
was paid on Mrs Fs card. But Mrs F has helpfully told us that the face value was around £30 
per ticket. So it seems likely the amount paid for the service on each ticket was below £100. 
And the tickets were individually available and not sold in groups or clusters of three. So I 
think the service provided was individually attributable to each ticket. So I dont think this 
case meets the required financial limits to have a claim under Section 75.
However for completeness I should add that for a successful claim Mrs F would need to 
show a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the Website. But for the same reasons as 
described earlier Im not persuaded that there was breach or misrepresentation here. Im not 
persuaded there is misrepresentation because Mrs F knew the price she was paying for the 
tickets and went through the purchase process to get them. Shes received the tickets and I 
think its clear the website is a secondary ticket selling website. Im not persuaded shes been 
told anything untrue which materially persuaded her to buy the tickets she otherwise 
wouldnt have. Similarly she bought the tickets and has received them, so Im not persuaded 
there has been a breach of contract either.
In summary I think that Tesco acted fairly in not raising a chargeback. I also think that there 
is not the appropriate relationship for a Section 75 claim, but I do not think such a claim 
would be successful anyway had it met the financial limit requirements of the Consumer 
Credit Act. I say this because I think there was no breach or misrepresentation of the 
contract. So I dont think I can fairly require Tesco to refund Mrs F for the musical tickets. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman