DRN-3833218
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Capital One (Europe) plc has handled his Section 75 claim that
was made on his credit card account.
What happened
What Ill be considering in this decision
I thought it might be helpful for me to set out that Mr R initially made three complaint points
under this reference number:
1. Capital One defaulting his credit card account in July 2011 which Mr R felt was 
unfair.
2. The outstanding debt on the credit card account should no longer exist as Mr R feels 
its statute barred due to the time that has passed.
3. Mr Rs Section 75 claim about his car being repossessed. Mr R acquired the car 
under a hire purchase agreement with a finance company and used his Capital One 
credit card account to make the repayments under the agreement.
As the six years have passed since the account defaulting and the marker appearing on Mr
Rs credit file and as Capital One have confirmed theyre no longer pursuing Mr R for the
outstanding debt under the credit card account, Mr R has confirmed with us that he only
wants us to investigate his Section 75 claim about his car being repossessed. So, this is the
only complaint point Ill be considering in this decision.
I understand Mr R has another complaint point about unauthorised payments taken from his
credit card by the finance company in 2011, which will need to be addressed by Capital One
first. My decision does not decide on this point and as I understand, our Investigator has
explained to Mr R that hell be receiving a separate response from Capital One addressing
this point.
The complaint
Mr R acquired a car through a hire purchase agreement with a finance company, who Ill
refer to as S, prior to 2011. Mr R says S repossessed his car when he wasnt around. Mr R
feels S shouldnt have done this as they didnt have his permission nor a court order to
repossess the car. So, Mr R feels S are in breach of contract. Because of this, Mr R made a
Section 75 claim with Capital One.
As Mr R made the monthly repayments towards the agreement using his Capital One credit
card, he says Capital One are jointly liable for the breach of contract he says he was caused
by S. Mr R says he contacted Capital One in 2011 about S repossessing his car. But neither
Mr R nor Capital One can provide us with evidence of this contact.
Mr R has provided us with a copy of a letter he sent to Capital One in November 2017 where
he mentioned that S took back his car without a court order or his consent. Capital One
looked into Mr Rs Section 75 claim and said they didnt receive this letter until December
2017. Capital One also told us more recently that they didnt provide a response to this letter.
Capital One said Mr R brought his complaint out of time  they say Mr R had six years from
the alleged breach to raise a claim. The repossession happened on 29 March 2011, so Mr R
had six years from 29 March 2011 to raise his Section 75 claim for the repayments to be
refunded  this would mean Mr R had until 29 March 2017. But the only evidence of Mr R
doing this is in his letter of 28 November 2017 which is more than six years from 29 March
2011. So essentially, what I think Capital One are referring to here is that the claim was
brought outside of the time limits as set out in the Limitation Act 1980.
Capital One also told us that they didnt think there was a debtor-creditor-supplier
relationship for a valid Section 75 claim as they said Capital One wasnt party to the
agreement Mr R had with S for the supply of the car. And that the supply of the car wasnt
financed by the credit agreement Mr R had with Capital One and was instead financed by a
hire purchase agreement with Mr R and S.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint about his Section 75 claim. In summary, she
said there wasnt the relevant relationship in place for a valid Section 75 claim. And that Mr
R made his complaint more than six years after the alleged breach.
Mr R didnt agree. He said Capital One ignored his concerns and this is why theyre saying
he has brought his complaint to our service out of time. Mr R also said hes been treated
very unfairly and that Capital One are jointly liable for S actions. So, the complaint has been
passed to me to make a decision on the matter.
I issued a provisional decision setting out the below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. A lot of what Mr R has provided to us
more recently is about his complaint to S and other matters which dont related to Mr Rs
Section 75 claim with Capital One. While Im not disputing what Mr R has told us about his
concerns with S and the fact that he raised a complaint with S which our case handler
provided their response to in 2014, the complaint point Ive addressed under this reference is
about Mr Rs Section 75 claim with Capital One.
A breach of contract occurs when one of the parties to that contract doesnt perform the
obligations set out in the contract. Mr R made individual transactions using his Capital One
credit card when making repayment towards the agreement. The breach of contract Mr R
complains of is with the original finance company, S. However, I dont think I can hold
Capital One responsible for the possible breach caused by another finance company, S. I
say this because Capital Ones responsibility was to make the repayments to the agreement
under Mr Rs credit card account with them. And there doesnt seem to be an issue with the
repayments Mr R made.
However, even if Im wrong on this point, I dont think Mr Rs Section 75 claim would have
been successful. I say this because the Limitation Act 1980, which is the law, sets out the
time limits which apply to different causes of actions a party can pursue.
I think Section 5 of the Limitation Act is relevant in Mr Rs complaint and it says, An action
founded on simple contract shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the
date which that cause of action accrued. Essentially, what this means is, Mr R would have
had six years from when the cause of action accrued. And the cause of action generally
accrues when the breach of contract occurs.Its clear from everything Mr R has told us that he thinks by S repossessing his car without
his consent or a court order is a breach of the contract he had with S. So, in essence, Mr R
would have had six years to raise a claim from when S repossessed the car on 29 March
2011.
Taking what Ive said above, Mr R would have had until 29 March 2017 at the latest to raise
a claim. However, the only evidence we have of Mr R raising a claim for a refund of the
repayments he made to S as a result of them repossessing his car, was in his letter to
Capital One on 28 November 2017. So, even if Mr R had a valid Section 75 claim against
Capital One for S repossessing the car, I think Capital One would have had a valid defence
in relying on the Limitation Act if they considered Mr Rs complaint under Section 75 in
November 2017.
Mr R has made reference to calling Capital One in 2011, but I havent seen any evidence to
show a Section 75 claim was made at that point. And theres also no other evidence that
leads me to believe a Section 75 claim was raised earlier than November 2017. I note Mr R
has previously shared some concerns about Capital Ones actions as he feels they ignored
him and they should have evidence that he made a claim to them in 2011, but Ive asked
Capital One for any evidence of a Section 75 claim being made in 2011 and they dont have
this. Mr R hasnt been able to provide evidence of this neither.
I appreciate this issue has caused Mr R a lot of frustration and upset and I dont wish to
make this worse for him in any way. I know Mr R feels strongly about Capital One being
responsible for S actions. But for reasons Ive explained, I dont think they can be held
responsible, so I wont be asking Capital One to refund the repayments Mr R made as hes
requested.
Responses to my provisional decision from Capital One and Mr R
Capital One responded to my provisional decision and confirmed they had nothing further to 
add. Mr R responded and in his recent email, he said he had nothing further to add, that he 
couldnt see his complaint being upheld and he also that he was advised to keep 
persevering his complaint with S, who are now no longer trading. 
While Mr Rs most recent email said he hasnt got anything further to add, he did mention a 
few points in his initial responses to my provisional decision, which Ill go on to address.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to read that Mr R feels let down by our service and Im also sorry to learn of 
Mr Rs recent health issue.
While Mr R said in his most recent email to us that he has nothing further to add, I think its 
important for me to clarify a few things in response to the points Mr R initially made when 
responding to my provisional decision. This decision is only deciding upon whether Capital 
One have acted fairly in not refunding the payments Mr R made, using his Capital One credit 
card, to the hire purchase agreement Mr R held with S. Mr R has made several points about 
the actions of S, but I cant comment on these, nor can I comment on the answer Mr R 
previously received from our service in 2014 about his complaint against S.To reiterate, regardless of any time limits that apply, such as those set out under The 
Limitation Act 1980, I dont think Mr R has a valid Section 75 claim against Capital One. So 
even if Mr R did bring his Section 75 claim to Capital One sooner, I dont think it would have 
been successful. I say this for the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision - I cant 
hold Capital One responsible for the possible breach of contract caused by another finance 
company.
Mr R also mentioned a judgement we reached in 2011 and I asked him for further 
information about this. However, Mr R didnt provide this. In the absence of further 
information, what I think Mr R was referring to here was the response he received from our 
service to his complaint against S in 2014. And as Ive explained, I cant comment on the 
actions of S nor the answer Mr R received from our service in 2014, as my decision is about 
the actions of Capital One.
I want to assure Mr R that I have considered everything he has said before reaching this 
decision. But as explained in my provisional decision, I dont think Capital One have acted 
unfairly.
My final decision
For reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman