DRN-3610193
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he says was lost as the result of a 
scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go into detail. In 
summary, Mr E was contacted by someone who claimed to work for HMRC, who told Mr E 
that he hadnt paid enough tax and had an outstanding bill. They told Mr E that unless he 
made payment straight away, he would be arrested. As a result, Mr E made the following 
payments. He made the payments to two separate individuals who Ive referred to as R and 
L.
 
Date Time Payment details Amount
2.6.2021 15:39 Payment to R £   999
2.6.2021 15:50 Payment to R £   999
2.6.2021 16:03 Payment to R £   999
2.6.2021 16:12 Payment to R £   200
2.6.2021 16:39 Payment to L £   500
2.6.2021 16:49 Payment to L £   500
Total loss £4,197
Within an hour of making the last payment Mr E became aware hed been the victim of a 
scam and reported it to Revolut.
Revolut investigated Mr Es fraud claim but declined to refund him. Revolut say by the time 
Mr E contacted them, it was too late for them to stop the payments. Also, that Mr E was 
shown warnings when he was setting up the new payees, which hed ignored. They told     
Mr E theyd tried to recover his funds but had been unsuccessful.
Mr E wasnt happy with Revoluts response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Es complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She felt 
that by the third payment a pattern had emerged which shouldve concerned Revolut and 
resulted in them blocking the payment and contacting Mr E.  As a result of that contact, the 
investigator thought it was most likely that the scam wouldve been uncovered. Therefore, 
the investigator recommended that Revolut refund Mr E from the third payment onwards and 
pay interest on the refund.
Revolut let us know they agreed with the investigators opinion, however, Mr E didnt agree. 
He says the first payment was unusual and feels that Revolut shouldve blocked that 
payment, therefore he wants a refund of all the payments he made.
As Mr E disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Mr E is going to be disappointed, but I agree with the recommendation made by 
the investigator that Revolut should refund Mr E for the payments he made starting with the 
third payment of £999. Ill explain why.
Its not disputed that Mr E made and authorised these payments, although I accept that this 
was as the result of a scam. And, in broad terms, the starting position in law is that Revolut 
is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make. 
Which I have taken that into account when looking into what is fair and reasonable in this 
case. 
But Revolut also has to be on the lookout for, and help to prevent, payments that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. Although, there has to be a balance struck between 
Revolut identifying payments that may indicate a customer is potentially at risk of financial 
harm and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption 
to legitimate payments. 
In this case, Im not satisfied that Revolut shouldve been concerned prior to the third 
payment Mr E made. I say this because:
The first two payments werent significantly higher than previous payments Mr E had 
made on his account. He had made payments up to £500 previously. 
There isnt enough about these first two payments, either individually or in 
combination, that makes them sufficiently out of character or unusual whereby I 
would expect Revolut to have identified a potential risk of fraud.
It wasnt until the third payment was made, that I think a clear pattern had formed that 
shouldve caused Revolut concern. Based on the number of payments made in a 
short period of time and their total value.
I appreciate that Mr E would like all of his money refunded, but Im not satisfied that I can 
fairly ask Revolut to do that. 
Im satisfied that it wasnt until the third payment that I wouldve expected Revolut to have 
become concerned and contacted Mr E. And I agree with the investigator that contact with 
Mr E wouldve uncovered the scam. He wasnt given a cover story, so I think its most likely 
that he wouldve answered any questions asked by Revolut about the payments honestly. 
Therefore, I think Revolut couldve prevented Mr Es losses from the third payment onwards 
and should refund him those payments. Revolut should pay interest on those payments at 
the account interest rate applicable to the accounts Mr E took the funds from in order to 
make these payments.
Putting things right
To put things right Revolut Ltd should:
Refund Mr E all of the payments made from the third payment onwards.
Pay interest on those payments at the account interest rate applicable to the account 
he took the money from to fund the payments. That interest calculation should be 
made from the date each payment was made until the date of settlement.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd and require Revolut to 
compensate Mr E as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman