DRN-3613238
The complaint
Mr P complains that when Invest Southwest Ltd (IS) reviewed his personal financial 
circumstances, including his various pensions, it failed to warn him about the Lifetime Tax 
Allowance (LTA) or advise him to take mitigating action. Mr P says this resulted in him 
incurring a LTA excess charge. 
To resolve his complaint, Mr P wants IS to pay financial redress.
What happened
In 2002, Mr P started a Stakeholder Personal Pension Plan with a pension provider I will 
refer to as S (and for ease of reference, Ill refer to his S pension). Mr P had an option to 
take up to 25% of his S pension as cash, potentially tax free. The S pension plan did not 
include LTA protection. In early 2021, Mr P took his 25% tax free cash allowance (TFC) out 
of his S pension. This resulted in S applying a Lifetime excess tax charge of £31,802.00.
Mr P received financial advice from IS during the period August 2018 to January 2019. He 
complained to IS that it hadnt warned him about the possibility of exceeding his LTA and 
said he should have been advised by IS to take action to reduce the amount of tax due. 
When Mr P wasnt able to resolve his complaint with IS, he came to the Ombudsman. Mr P 
strongly feels that a competent financial adviser has a duty to review all a client's income, 
outgoings and investments. I could have been advised to seek 'fixed protection' and/or draw 
down my stakeholder pension so that the tax be reduced. It is not acceptable for IS to rely on 
the fact that I was managing the stakeholder pension myself and absolve themselves from 
the liability to tax. I would like to receive substantial compensation  
 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding Mr Ps complaint. In very brief summary, his 
view was that whilst IS had considered and advised on Mr Ps S pension, as Mr P hadnt 
acted on advice to switch his S pension to the recommended product but had continued 
instead to self-manage his S pension, IS wasnt responsible for advising him about mitigating 
LTA risks.  
Mr P disagreed with our investigator. He mainly said that his agreement with IS included full 
understanding of his financial circumstances and a free no obligation consultation gathering 
facts and figures related to all my finances which had resulted in a specific proposal to 
switch his S pension. Mr P felt that had been the time for IS to warn him of the tax 
implications and, had that happened, it could have resulted in him paying for detailed advice 
on how to mitigate LTA charges.
There has been a further exchange of correspondence between the investigator and Mr P 
but as the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has said the crux of his complaint is that he was not alerted to the possibility of 
exceeding the Lifetime Tax Allowance despite (the advisers) advocacy of private pensions 
on top of my final salary pension. So this is what Im focusing on in my decision.
Mr P became a client of IS around August 2018 and I am satisfied that I have jurisdiction to 
consider this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what its fair and reasonable to expect IS to have discussed with 
Mr P during the initial free consultation period when IS recommended him to switch his S 
pension to a new provider.
I appreciate that Mr P firmly believes that his discussions about his S pension ought to have 
included warnings from IS about potential LTA implications. But I dont agree with Mr P. Ill 
explain my reasons.
Tax is usually payable on someones pension savings if their total pension pots are worth 
more than the lifetime allowance  which can change from time to time.  
I wouldnt reasonably have expected LTA considerations necessarily to have been 
mentioned during the discussions Mr P had with IS. At that stage, Mr P hadnt signed up with 
IS for paid-for advice and services. There had been an initial meeting with the adviser in 
August 2018, specifically about inheritance tax mitigation. Mr P met with the adviser again, 
this time for advice on pensions and investments. This resulted in IS making 
recommendations to Mr P on 24 October 2018, including advising him to transfer the S 
pension into a new personal pension plan with a different pension provider. 
The reason for the recommendation made was as follows:
 The existing plan was invested in one fund and diversification would reduce overall risk
 The plan could not be managed on Mr Ps behalf because adviser access was not 
permitted and any administration, such as fund switches, would have to be completed 
manually by Mr P
 The performance, charges and expenses were not transparent.
So whilst its clear there was a discussion about his self-managed S pension, the focus was 
on the overall suitability of Mr Ps S pension for his present needs and circumstances and 
the reasons why IS recommended transferring his pension to new provider. 
I havent seen anything to show that using his S pension to provide a TFC was something 
Mr P mentioned to IS or asked IS about or that the subject of the LTA should have been a 
relevant discussion point. Mr P had no immediate need for more cash given his surplus cash 
savings already on deposit. So I have no reason to think that taking the TFC was on Mr Ps 
mind at the time or that IS ought fairly to have realised it should have advised Mr P about 
this possibility or about measures for mitigating the LTA at the same time as it provided a 
recommendation about switching his pension. 
To my mind, more detailed consideration of tax efficient provision taking into account Mr Ps 
future financial plans, including his pensions, would more naturally form part of further and 
more in-depth discussions if Mr P had signed up for the fee- paying advice and services IS 
offered clients. 
I dont find the fact that IS recommended Mr P to switch his S pension to a new pension 
provider amounted to IS endorsing or advising Mr P to take his TFC. In the event, Mr P decided not to accept the advice from IS to switch his pension and his 
relationship with IS ended shortly after this in January 2019 when he transferred his 
business to another financial adviser. 
I have noted that Mr P said: A warning could have resulted in my paying for detailed advice 
on how to mitigate LTA charges. But this doesnt affect my overall view. Mr P was aware he 
could sign up for detailed bespoke advice and recommendations, there was no obstacle to 
him doing so and I think its likely he understood that a good reason for seeking advice might 
be to find out about things he may have been unaware of. Mr P could have signed up for 
more detailed advice from IS irrespective of whether or not he accepted the recommendation 
made by IS to switch his pension. 
For all these reasons, I dont find that IS wrongly failed to consider and advise Mr P on 
options he could have taken advantage of at the time, which would have alerted him to the 
LTA risk and given him a chance to do something about this. It follows that I dont find that IS 
can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for the financial detriment Mr P suffered when 
he incurred the LTS excess tax charge as a result of taking cash out of his S pension. My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Invest Southwest Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman