DRN-2275961
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund disputed 
transactions made from his credit card. And hed like these removed. 
What happened
Some of Mr Ms responses were provided through his representative. In the interests of 
doubt Ill refer to all responses coming from Mr M. 
Mr M explains that on the 12 June 2019 his card was declined in a shop on two occasions. 
At which point he contacted Halifax and learnt that on the 7 June 2019 transactions totalling 
£3,316 were carried out without his authorisation. Mr M explains that at the time of the 
disputed transactions his debit card was in his possession, in his wallet, and he carried out 
genuine transactions immediately prior to and just after the disputed transactions  and his 
PIN wasnt compromised at any point.  Hes also highlighted that Halifax had an incorrect 
address recorded for him and his mobile number had been changed prior to the disputed 
transactions.
 
Halifax looked into Mr Ms complaint but they didnt refund the disputed transactions. In 
summary they concluded on balance Mr M authorised the disputed transactions. However 
the bank accepted that the service they provided wasnt satisfactory, and paid Mr M £125 
compensation in recognition of this.
Mr M didnt accept Halifaxs response so brought his complaint to our service. He explained 
that Halifaxs failure to refund the transactions had negatively impacted his mental and 
physical health.
 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate it was likely 
disappointing to Mr M but in doing so they concluded on balance that Mr M authorised the 
disputed transactions. Because:
There were genuine transactions before and after the disputed transactions.
There was no point of compromise for Mr Ms card or PIN.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. In response he said:
Before our investigators view he wasnt even aware of some of the attempted 
transactions.
Halifax told him someone would call him in 24 hours but they didnt.
Before the purchases he changed his mobile number at the branch, but this wasnt 
updated.  
Theres an address on his credit file  reported by Halifax  that hes never lived at. 
Our investigator replied by saying that they agreed Mr Ms credit file showing a link to 
another address  and they were unable to explain this. But Halifax have had Mr Ms correct 
address recorded since March 2016. 
Mr M responded with further points including:
The address change doesnt make sense.
The Subject Access Request he made to Halifax shows two unknown email 
addresses, two unknown phone numbers and an address hes never lived at. 
The card/PIN request was made online, but he doesnt have online banking. 
Debit cards can be cloned and PINs obtained by many different means. 
Our investigator reviewed her position  but didnt change her outcome. In summary our 
investigator explained she understood Mr Ms concerns about the address details but as the 
transactions were completed using the genuine card Mr M had in his possession, plus the 
PIN, shes satisfied a cloned card wasnt used.
 
Mr M didnt accept out investigators opinion and reiterated his previous points including:
The debit card and PIN werent delivered to Mr Ms address.
A fraud prevention and credit reference agency recognise the disputed transactions 
as fraud. 
Hes never used online banking where a lot of activity occurred, including the 
ordering of the card and PIN.
As Mr M didnt accept our investigators outcome its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons, which I appreciate wont 
be the outcome Mr M is hoping for. 
Generally, Halifax can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ms genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Halifax to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr M consented to the transactions 
being made. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to conclude that Mr M 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
To carry out the disputed transactions a fraudster would have needed access to 
Mr Ms card and PIN. Mr Ms explained that at the time of the disputed transactions 
the card was in his possession. However, he claims that he received three copies of 
the same credit card. And hes provided photographic evidence of this. Halifax have 
provided records which show only one card was issued with the genuine card details 
used to carry out the disputed transactions. And theyre unable to explain the images 
supplied by Mr M. Despite the images supplied by Mr M I think the evidence from 
Halifax is persuasive. Halifax have also explained only one card was active at the 
time. If this card was in Mr Ms possession on the day of the disputed transactions I 
struggle to see how a fraudster could have taken and replaced it, on more than one occasion, without his knowledge. Even if I did think three duplicate cards had been 
issued, Mr Ms provided evidence of these cards being in his possession. Therefore, 
Id have to satisfy myself that the fraudster took and replaced one of these cards 
without Mr Ms knowledge. And I cant see a persuasive reason why a fraudster 
would risk returning the card to Mr M. 
Mr M advises he authorised a number of transactions prior to and after the disputed 
transactions. For example Mr M carried out a genuine transaction just over two 
minutes prior to the third disputed transaction and a further genuine transaction just 
over eight minutes after. These transactions leave a very short window for a fraudster 
to take and replace Mr Ms card without him noticing. 
Mr Ms suggested that his credit card could have been cloned by a fraudster. 
However, our service hasnt seen an example of an occasion when a card  with a 
CHIP  has been successfully cloned. So Ive ruled out this possibility. 
The genuine transactions that Mr M accepts he carried out were in the same location 
as the disputed transactions. 
Mr M argues that a fraudster changed his address with Halifax  which explains how 
they obtained enough details to carry out the fraud. Halifax have provided evidence 
which shows Mr Ms address was changed on the 6 June 2019. However, this was 
after both the card, 5 May 2019, and PIN, 3 June 2019, were issued. Therefore Im 
satisfied they were sent to Mr Ms home address. 
Mr M has raised a number of other points in response to our investigators view. Including 
that he never registered for online banking and the email address Halifax had recorded for 
him wasnt correct. Ive considered both these points. Halifax have explained that Mr M 
registered for online banking in 2011  but due to the length of time theyve been unable to 
provide any records of this. Theyve also explained theyre unsure why the email address 
recorded is incorrect  however communication wasnt attempted with Mr M via this means. I 
appreciate that Mr M is concerned someone may have gained access to his online banking 
and changed his email address registered with the bank. I find it unlikely that a fraudster 
would register Mr M for online banking in 2011 but wait until 2019 before carrying out the 
fraud. Ive also considered that neither of these activities satisfactorily explain how a 
fraudster could have used the card in Mr Ms possession to carry out the disputed 
transactions. I realise this will be disappointing to Mr M but neither of these arguments 
change my overall conclusions. 
For the reasons Ive explained above Im satisfied that on balance Mr M authorised the 
disputed transactions. And it follows Halifax are entitled to hold him liable for them. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman