The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled their car 
insurance claim. There were delays and the repairs on their vehicle werent completed to a 
satisfactory standard.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision to the parties last month explaining that I didn't intend to 
uphold the complaint. This was mainly based on UKI doing enough, in my view, to fairly 
redress the things that had gone wrong.
While given in more detail in my provisional decision, a summary of the background is that 
after an accident Mr and Mrs B's car was taken in for repairs to UKI's approved repairers. 
Over a period of around four months the car had to be returned because of unsatisfactory 
repairs and minor damage being caused while at the repairers. In June 2019, after having 
received the car back at the start of May, Mr and Mrs B raised a new complaint about 
paintwork match.
UKI was satisfied from what the approved repair had said about the quality of repairs being 
signed off by an engineer, that it was for Mr and Mrs B to demonstrate that there was indeed 
an issue as they alleged. It was also apparent at the time of return that Mr and Mrs B were 
happy with the vehicle. So, UKI had recommended that Mr and Mrs B take the vehicle to the 
manufacturer's garage for an opinion. And it had also paid a total of £300 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused throughout the handling of the repairs, £100 of which came after 
March.
There was also an issue with what aspects of Mr and Mrs B's complaint we could look at. I 
explained that I was restricted to looking at what happened after the issues they'd 
complained about, and were addressed, in UKI's final response letter of 22 March 2019. This 
was because Mr and Mrs B didn't raise their complaint to us about this until more than six 
months after UKI's final response. And I explained the rules that we must follow (DISP) 
about this, and I could only look at the complaint if the failure to bring the complaint was a 
result of exceptional circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B have replied to my provisional decision. Their reply ostensibly covers issues 
already made during the time we've been investigating the complaint. And for clarity, there 
are no exceptional circumstances raised about the failure to bring the complaint to us within 
six months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1999534reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B say they didn't want to incur the cost of getting a report about the 
issues they had with the paintwork, which they raised in June 2019. But I note they took the 
decision to sell their car, which they say was at a financial loss. Selling their car wasn't the 
only option left to them, but now it has been sold it's impossible to get a view on whether 
their concern about the paintwork has merit.
I'm cognisant of the fact that an engineer signed off the repairs when returning the vehicle in 
May, and there's a note to the effect that Mr and Mrs B were happy with the repairs. Indeed, 
it's apparent from previous returns that Mr and Mrs B raised issues extremely quickly. So, 
the fact that it took several weeks for them to raise a concern about the paintwork does 
persuade me that they were happy with the car in May. It is of course possible that an issue 
arose some weeks later, but in the circumstances I am persuaded that Mr and Mrs B bear 
the burden of demonstrating there was a fault with the paintwork. 
UKI sent an additional £100 compensation for the inconvenience after the March final 
response letter, which I remain satisfied is fair in the circumstances. And while Mr and Mrs B 
were unhappy at not having a courtesy car, I'm satisfied one was offered.
My final decision
In keeping with my provisional decision, my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman