DRN-4393897
The complaint
Ms C complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and their decision to 
decline the claim she made on her insurance policy.
What happened
Ms C held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by AIC. In late November 2022, Ms C says 
she awoke to find that her car had been stolen overnight. So, she contacted AIC to make a 
claim.
AIC attempted to validate Ms Cs claim. But after considering the evidence available to them, 
including CCTV footage, Ms Cs testimony and analysis of Ms Cs spare key, they took the 
decision to decline the claim. They wrote to Ms C in February 2023 explaining why, setting 
out the General Conditions section of the policy, which stated that Ms C must not act in a 
fraudulent manner. Ms C was unhappy with this decision, and AICs accusations of fraud. 
So, she raised a complaint.
Ms C was unhappy with the decision to decline the claim, and she disputed the conclusion 
AIC reached. Ms C thought her testimony was both truthful and accurate and so, she wanted 
AIC to overturn their decision and accept the claim.
AIC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought their decision to decline 
the claim was fair, based on discrepancies found within the information they obtained when 
validating the claim. So, AIC didnt think they needed to do anything more. Ms C remained 
unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought AIC had acted 
fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Ms C held, when declining the 
claim. They thought AIC were fair to rely on the CCTV footage, and the key analysis 
provided by an independent third-party. So, they didnt think AIC needed to do anything 
more.
Ms C didnt agree, and she provided extensive comments explaining why. These included, 
and are not limited to, Ms Cs unhappiness with the report on her spare key and her wish for 
another report to be obtained as well as Ms Cs belief there could be a number of 
explanations for how the thief entered her car with what appeared to be a set of keys. Ms C 
was unhappy that she was now expected to declare the cancellation of her policy and the 
future ramifications this will have. So, she maintained her belief the claim decision should be 
overturned.
Our investigator considered all of Ms Cs comments, but their view remained unchanged. 
And they explained its not our services role to direct a business such as AIC to obtain a new 
report when we feel one has already been obtained. Nor are we able to commission reports 
ourselves.
Ms C remained unhappy with this stance, and she felt the keys should be retested. As Ms C 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms C. I want to reassure Ms 
C Ive considered all the comments shes raised, even if I dont mention them specifically. 
And from these comments, I think its made reasonably clear that Ms C disputes AICs 
allegations of fraud, and that she feels strongly about this. I appreciate the seriousness of 
these allegations, and the future impact on Ms C due to her requirement to declare the 
cancellation of her policy. I want to reassure Ms C I have considered this at length when 
reaching my decision.
And before explaining why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to set out what 
Ive considered, and how. It is not my role to decide for certain on what I think happened 
during the theft of Ms Cs car, as I wasnt present at the time it was taken. Instead, it is my 
role consider what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the balance of 
probabilities. And then, its my role to consider the actions of AIC alongside this to decide 
whether I think they acted fairly, and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
When deciding on whether I think AIC acted fairly, Ive thought about what decision I think 
another insurer would most likely have taken, in the same situation with the same evidence 
available to them. And crucially, this centres around the evidence available to AIC at the time 
they made the decision. So, this wouldnt necessarily consider new evidence Ms C feels 
should be obtained.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Ms C held. And these explain within the 
General Conditions section under the heading Fraud that:
You must not act in a fraudulent manner. If you, or anyone acting for you:
Knowingly provide information to us that is not true
Mislead us in any way, including about who is the main user of the Car, in order to 
get insurance from us, obtain more favourable terms or reduce your premium 
Make a claim under the Policy knowing it to be false or fraudulently exaggerated in 
any respect
Submit a document in support of a policy or claim knowing the document to be forged 
or false in any respect
Make a claim for any loss or damage caused by your wilful act or with your 
knowledge.
AIC then go onto explain that, depending on the circumstances, they may be entitled to 
refuse responsibility for the claim to which the alleged fraud or falsehood relates. They may 
also be entitled to cancel or void the policy without refunding the premium.
So, for me to say AIC have acted within the terms and conditions of the policy, I first need to be satisfied that, from the evidence available to them, it was reasonable for them to deem 
Ms Cs claim to be false, or fraudulently exaggerated on the balance of probabilities. And Ive 
considered the evidence and information on file to decide this.
Ive watched the CCTV footage provided. And I think its clear the thief approached Ms Cs 
car directly, suggesting the theft was targeting her car specifically. And I can see the thief 
used a key to enter Ms Cs car without any force, and then start the car using that key before 
driving away. I note Ms C herself doesnt dispute a key was most likely used to steal the car, 
based on this footage.
Because the footage suggests a key was used, I would expect AIC to seek Ms Cs 
comments regarding this. And this is what they did. I can see upon questioning, Ms C 
explained she had lost her main set of keys around two years earlier, stating they were lost 
during travel between her home and a city a significant distance away. And that since that 
time shed been using a spare set of keys to drive her car. I note this testimony differs 
somewhat from her original testimony, shown in AICs system notes, where Ms C refers to 
her spare key as her main keys. In answer to the question Where were keys kept I can see 
Ms C answers My main keys are still at home and were safely stored at the time of the theft 
Following this testimony, AIC took the decision to inspect Ms Cs spare key she had in her 
possession, to determine its usage. And I can see they instructed an independent expert to 
provide a report on this. Again, this is something Id expect AIC to do, as they are entitled to 
validate a claim before accepting it and I think there were some discrepancies in the 
information Ms C supplied.
Ive considered this report at length. And it makes clear the key Ms C provided had a key 
blade that would be used to start the cars ignition. The report goes onto explain that this key 
appears to be in very good condition with very little debris within the interior of the key and 
no wear to the blade which is consistent with being a spare key and not the main key for the 
vehicle before concluding that The key condition is very good and not consistent with a key 
which has been in regular use.
I think this conflicts with Ms Cs claims she had been using the key as her main key for some 
two years after the loss of her initial key, as this is an extended period of time and so, the 
key wouldve most likely been used regularly. I appreciate Ms C disputes this and has stated 
she drives around 3,000 miles a year which she feels is low usage and so, may have 
resulted in there being no wear to the blade. But as Ms C states she lost the original key two 
years before, even with that mileage it would suggest the key being used for trips to equate 
to 6,000 miles, and I think that would amount to regular use over that period. So, Id expect 
the wear to the blade to reflect this. And I dont think it does.
So, because of the above, I think AIC acted fairly and reasonably when relying on the 
information provided to them within the independent expert report to decide Ms Cs claim 
was false, fraudulent or exaggerated. And I dont think there is anything within the report that 
shouldve led AIC to commission another report, as I think the findings were clear, and 
conclusive.
Ive also thought about the likelihood of Ms Cs key, having been lost some years earlier 
when travelling a significant distance, would be found, and then used to target Ms Cs car 
specifically. And having done so, I dont think I can say AIC have acted unfairly when 
deciding this rationale to be unlikely, on the balance of probabilities. Had Ms Cs key been 
lost two years earlier when travelling such a long distance, I think its unlikely it would be 
found and then her car located for it to be stolen. And even if this was somehow the case, I 
dont think there is any clear logic, or rationale, to explain why the potential thief would wait 
two years to then attempt to steal Ms Cs car.As Ive already discussed above, I think the CCTV footage shows the thief purposefully 
targeting Ms Cs car. So, I think the thief was aware the key they held was the key for Ms Cs 
car specifically. So, for them to have known this, I think its most likely that if the key had 
been lost and found, it wouldve been around the time of the loss so the thief was able to 
correlate the key to the car.
So, because of all the above, I think AIC have acted within the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining the claim, as I think there were discrepancies found with Ms Cs 
testimony that could lead them to believe the claim was either fraudulent or exaggerated. 
And because of this, I think AIC acted within the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining the claim and cancelling Ms Cs policy, as this is what they said they could do. I 
think its also worth pointing out that these actions fall within the actions insurers are entitled 
to take, set out by the industry regulator, where a claim is deemed likely to be fraudulent or 
exaggerated.
But as Ive explained above, I also need to be satisfied AIC acted fairly, as well as in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy they provided. So, Ive thought about what I think 
another insurer is most likely to have done, in the same situation with the same information 
available to them. And in this situation, I think another insurer would most likely have taken 
the same decision. This is because I think there are clear discrepancies between Ms Cs 
testimony on her use of the spare key, compared to the conclusions of the key inspections 
independent report. And I dont think Ms Cs rationale of how the key couldve been 
obtained, and then used, to steal the car is a plausible one, considering the length of time 
between when Ms C says she lost the original key, to the theft of her car.
So, Im satisfied that AIC have acted fairly on this occasion and because of this, I dont think 
they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms C was hoping for. And I appreciate this decision will 
have a significant impact as she is without the value of her stolen car and is now required to 
declare the cancellation to future insurers. But on this occasion, I think the decision AIC 
reached was a fair one, based on the evidence available to them. While I appreciate Ms C 
has hypothesised other ways a key couldve been used to steal her car, such as a key being 
cloned, I dont think there is any evidence to suggest this is the case. But there is evidence 
to show Ms C had lost, or wasnt in possession of, a key that could access her car that was 
originally in her possession. So, I think AIC were fair to assume this was the key used to 
steal the car.
And as the independent report compiled on inspection of the spare key suggested the spare 
key hadnt been used as Ms C had stated, I dont think there was any obligation for AIC to 
seek another report to confirm this finding as it had already been compiled by an 
independent expert. Nor do I think our service could, or should, commission a new report as 
I think the report AIC obtained was adequate and fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman