DRN-4142435
The complaint
Miss R complains that the loan she had from Santander UK Plc was unaffordable to her.
What happened
Miss R had one loan from Santander in July 2021 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue
1 27 Jul 2021 £13,000 60m £326.14 1 August 2026
Miss R says Santander should have noticed that shed taken out short-term loans in the past 
and her credit cards were always at their limit. She says she had very high outgoings, 
including a re-mortgage taken out in March 2021, and new credit cards taken out in January 
2021 and April 2021. She says Santander should never have approved the loan and that she 
had to enter into a Debt Management Plan (DMP).
Santander says it took into account a number of factors when deciding to lend to Miss R. It 
says this included information provided by Miss R combined with monthly credits, behaviour 
seen on her accounts and information from credit reference agencies. Santander says its 
investigations showed it did not make a mistake when agreeing to the lending.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He wasnt satisfied 
Santander had carried out proportionate checks and found that, had it done so, it would have 
seen that Miss R had insufficient disposable income to sustainably make the new loan 
repayments. Our investigator said that Santander should not charge interest on the loan and 
any relevant negative information should be removed from her credit file.
Santander responded to say, in summary, that, Miss R failed to declare her full housing 
costs during the application process and her mortgage was not reported by the credit 
reference agency. It said that it validated Miss Rs declared income and that some of the 
loan was used to repay existing debts thus improving her financial position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Rs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Rs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Santander make a fair lending decision?
Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
When Miss R applied for the loan, Ive seen evidence to show Santander asked about the 
reason for the loan and her financial circumstances, and also checked her credit file. Miss R 
declared her income was £2,040, with expenditure of £1,400, including housing costs of 
£588. She also said she had two dependants. Santander verified her income, found she had 
existing monthly credit commitments of £214 and estimated her living costs to be £816 
excluding housing. However, based on this information, Im not satisfied the checks went far 
enough. I say that because:
The loan was for five years, and Santander needed to be sure the repayments were 
sustainable for that period;
Although Santanders credit check revealed no adverse information, it did show that 
Miss R had taken out three new credit agreements in the last six months, with 
combined credit limits of £6,600;
With the new loan, Miss R was committed to spending over 26% of her income on 
credit repayments each month;
Santanders affordability calculation showed Miss R had less than £100 of disposable 
income each month, after shed made the new loan repayment.
Given Miss Rs limited disposable income and the potential for utilising significant new 
sources of credit, I consider Santander should have verified Miss Rs regular expenditure, 
including the figure shed declared for housing. I can see Santander had access to her bank 
statements, so I find it reasonable that it should have used this information to better 
understand Miss Rs financial situation.
Had it done so, it would have seen that:
Miss Rs income was around £2,360 per month;
Housing costs, in a shared ownership scheme, totalled £1,027 per month;
Regular payments for council tax, bills, insurance, television and phone were around 
£520;
There were payments to the childrens school of around £240 per month.
Taking all this into account, including existing credit commitments of £214, this left Miss R 
with about £360 with which to pay for food, travel and other regular expenditure. In addition, I 
can see frequent transfers in from Miss Rs savings account  the balance of which had 
dropped by over £8,000 since 5 May 2021 to under £1,600. As such, Im satisfied the new 
repayment was unaffordable to Miss R and Santander should not have approved the loan.I acknowledge Santander said Miss R didnt declare her full housing costs and her mortgage 
was not showing on the credit report, but I find proportionate checks would have identified 
this additional cost. I also note that it said the loan was used to consolidate existing credit 
thus improving Miss Rs financial situation. However, although I accept that was the case, 
Miss R initially declared she was using the loan for home improvements and Santander 
needed to assess the loan assuming her existing credit commitments would continue.
Finally, Ive considered whether Santander acted unfairly in any other way. Santander says 
Miss R notified it she was struggling financially in December 2021, and it gave her 60 days 
respite on the repayments. I can then see it accepted reduced payments as part of the Debt 
Management Plan before the arrears were cleared in February 2023. Im satisfied, therefore, 
that Santander acted reasonably when it responded to Miss Rs financial difficulties.
So, based on all the evidence, I find Santander did not make a fair lending decision for the 
loan, although I cant see it acted unfairly in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should:
Add up the total amount of money Miss R received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss R made should be deducted from this amount.
 If this results in Miss R having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
 If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Santander should attempt 
to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss R;
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Rs credit file about the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2023. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman