DRN-3534864
The complaint
The estate of Miss L complains about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to decline 
a claim on Miss Ls life policy. Theyre also unhappy about the way the claim has been 
handled.  
The estate of Miss L is represented by Miss Ls mother, Mrs S. For ease, Ill refer to Mrs S 
throughout this decision. 
What happened
On 28 June 2019 Miss L took out life cover with Aviva. The policy was due to run until 2062 
with a sum assured of £300,000.
Miss L sadly died on 6 March 2020. The coroner reached a verdict of death by misadventure 
with the medical cause of death recorded as hanging. The short narrative record of inquest 
report said:
There was no indication or past history to account for [Miss Ls] actions  but she was 
stressed re a number of issues and this would appear to have been a cry for help that went 
very wrong rather than a serious attempt by the deceased to take her own life. 
Miss Ls family made a claim to Aviva. It declined the claim based on the following policy 
exclusion:
We wont pay if the death of the life covered is caused by suicide or intentional injury within 
12 months of the policy start date. If this happens, the policy will end.
Mrs S complained to Aviva and asked it to reconsider its decision. She said the coroner 
hadnt seen from the evidence that her daughter had acted with intent  nor had there been 
a verdict of suicide. She said the evidence and surrounding circumstances showed her 
daughter hadnt intended to either harm herself or to die. Mrs S was also unhappy with how 
Aviva had handled the claim and how it had communicated the decision. 
Aviva maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said it had considered all the available 
evidence  including the inquest report and information available online in the media. But it 
was satisfied Miss Ls death resulted from intentional injury within the first 12 months of the 
policy. And so, it was satisfied the policy exclusion did apply. Aviva apologised if Mrs S had 
found the communication of the decision upsetting - saying this hadnt been its intention. 
Mrs S brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She was particularly concerned 
about Avivas decision making  saying it hadnt sought key information from the family 
surrounding the circumstances of her daughters death, instead relying of media reports.  
And Mrs S was concerned that Aviva was relying on the intentional injury part of the 
exclusion  saying the evidence showed her daughter didnt have any intention to hurt 
herself or take her own life. Mrs S also felt Aviva hadnt provided a full explanation of the 
basis for its decision to decline the claim by relying on the exclusion. And she remained 
unhappy about the way it had communicated with them during such a difficult and upsetting 
time.
Our Investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Based on the evidence shed 
seen, she thought Aviva had applied the exclusion fairly. She agreed that Avivas 
communication couldve been better, and that Aviva had accepted this. But our Investigator 
explained she was unable to award compensation to an estate. 
Mrs S doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she doesnt agree the exclusion applies because she doesnt think theres 
evidence Miss L acted intentionally. Mrs S also thinks the coroners conclusions have been 
misinterpreted, and that too much emphasis has been put on the stated cause of death. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want firstly to offer my sincere condolences to Mrs S. I understand this has been an 
incredibly difficult time for her and her family, and having to relive these events more than 
two years after Miss Ls tragic death must be incredibly painful for them all.
I dont want to add to that distress, and I want assure Mrs S that I didnt take this decision 
lightly. But after careful consideration, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator, 
and for largely the same reasons. And I cant say Aviva has treated Mrs S unfairly. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Mrs S hasnt disagreed with our Investigators findings in terms of Avivas handling of her 
claim and its communication with her. And on considering this point myself, I agree that 
Aviva couldve handled things better. However, I cant award compensation to Mrs S for the 
upset caused to her by Aviva, as the estate of Miss L is the complainant in this complaint, 
not Mrs S. So there seems little merit in considering this point further. Instead Ill focus on 
Mrs Ss substantive complaint about Avivas decision to decline the claim. 
As it isnt in dispute that Miss L died within 12 months of the policy start date, I havent felt it 
necessary to comment on this any further. Instead Ill be focusing on the remainder of the 
policy exclusion. 
I should firstly set out my position on the importance of the coroners verdict here. Whilst Ive 
not seen the full transcript of the hearing, its clear from Mrs Ss detailed and helpful 
submissions to the Financial Ombudsman that the full circumstances of Miss Ls death were 
fully considered in reaching the coroners verdict of death by misadventure/cause of death 
hanging. And so, I dont think its unreasonable that Aviva has largely based its decision on 
that verdict. 
I also appreciate that Mrs S isnt disputing the coroners verdict  rather she thinks Aviva has 
misinterpreted it when applying the exclusion and wants me to consider that, in conjunction 
with my own assessment of the specific circumstances surrounding Miss Ls death. Whilst I 
can fully understand Mrs Ss strength of feeling here, the circumstances of Miss Ls death 
were for the coroner to consider. Im only looking at the fairness of Avivas decision to 
decline the claim based on the policy exclusion. I also think its important to explain that the coroner considered the question of intent in 
relation to suicide  in other words - if Miss L intended to take her own life. This isnt the 
same as considering whether there was intent to self-inflict injury. And for Aviva to rely on 
the exclusion it only has to show  based on the evidence  that on the balance of 
probabilities (that it is more likely than not) that Miss L either took her own life or intended to 
inflict injury on herself.
I accept the coroners verdict finds it unlikely Miss L intended to take her own life. But I think 
what happened shows it is more likely than not that she intended to inflict injury on herself. 
This sort of case is extremely sad and difficult, but given the coroners verdict, I think it would 
be very hard to say, on the balance of probabilities, Miss L didnt intend to cause herself 
some sort of harm. Even though its accepted she didnt intend to take her own life. But 
tragically the intentional injury she inflicted on herself led to her death.  
It is of course possible Miss L never actually intended to inflict injury on herself and there 
may be another explanation of how and why she died. This is something we can never 
know. But I dont think there is sufficient evidence to say that this is more likely the case than 
the conclusion that she intended to harm herself. 
So, taking account of all the evidence, I think Aviva has reasonably concluded, on the 
balance of probabilities, that Miss Ls death resulted from intentional injury. And so, the 
policy exclusion applies. 
Im satisfied Avivas decision to decline Mrs Ss claim was fair and reasonable and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. So, I wont be asking it to take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
L to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman