DRN-3472775
The complaint
Miss L complains that TSB Bank Plc did not follow her account opening instructions and that 
the wording on their website was misleading. 
What happened
Miss L attempted to open a monthly savings account with TSB. She said the online 
application asked her how much she initially wanted to deposit, so she entered £1,500, as 
she said this is the maximum amount they pay interest on the account. Miss L says the 
application screens also show that you can have a minimum opening balance of £1+ but 
there is no maximum opening balance.
Miss L says the application also required the user to set up a monthly standing order, so she 
set up a standing order of £25 a month, but at the end of the application she received an 
error. As she tried to open the account over the Christmas period, she decided to leave 
things for a few days to see if this rectified the matter. Miss L noticed that the £1,500 hadnt 
left her account, so she tried to manually transfer this money, but she couldnt see the new 
monthly savings account in her list of her accounts. Miss L contacted TSBs telephone 
banking to query this, but she says they informed her that she could only pay in by standing 
order each month. Miss L made a complaint to TSB. She also had problems setting up her 
standing order for the account.
TSB did not uphold Miss Ls complaint. They said that the initial deposit amount is a 
standard question asked as part of their money laundering/fraud commitments as a UK 
bank, but its not product specific, so the online sales journey will allow her to enter a larger 
amount in the initial deposit section. TSB confirmed that it was documented in many places 
that the monthly contribution was £25-£125. TSB said the minimum opening deposit of £1 
was correct as their monthly savings account was an instant access account and so, if over 
time there had been for example £1,000 deposited then Miss L could withdraw £999 and the 
account could remain open, and earn interest on the £1 remaining. 
TSB said that although Miss L had told them she couldnt set up a standing order for the 
account, their records show that there were multiple requests to set up a standing order 
which hadnt been completed. They said that this could be because of a software update 
required on the device she was using or due to the device itself. They said there were no 
known issues in setting up standing orders on their mobile application, but they said if she 
continued to experience problems setting up a standing order then she could contact them, 
and they would try to assist her. Miss L brought her complaint to our service. She attached a 
screenshot to show the wording on TSBs website when she applied for the account. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ls complaint. He said TSB had not made an error by 
not accepting Miss Ls £1,500 deposit. He said TSB have made suitable information 
available to make customers aware of how the account works including that they can pay a 
maximum of £125 per month to the account. So to deposit £1,500 to an account, a customer 
would need to do this over 12 months. Our investigator said that the screenshot Miss L 
provided us also shows there is no maximum limit on the amount that can be held in the 
account, but it does show the maximum monthly payment would be £125. He also said he 
had seen no error from TSB with the setting up of Miss Ls standing order.
Miss L asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint and she made a number of points. 
She said the monthly limit when she applied for the account was £250 a month and not £125 
a month. She also said that during the application process it clearly asks for an initial deposit 
which indicates that you cant open the account without at least depositing £1, so given the 
application page asked for an initial deposit, this made sense.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Miss L from the outset that Im unable to tell TSB what wording they should use on 
their website regarding their monthly savings account, as this is a commercial decision for 
TSB to make. 
Miss L has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Im satisfied that the maximum monthly contribution that could be paid into the monthly 
savings account that Miss L opened was £125 a month and not £250 a month that she has 
said. I say this for a number of reasons. Miss Ls complaint form that she sent us shows she 
put £1,500 as this is the limit (the account) pays interest on. On the screenshot Miss L sent 
us in January 2022, which was only weeks after she attempted to open the account, this also 
says you must set up a monthly standing order between £25 and up to £125 from a TSB 
current account.
So the information which Miss L initially gave us indicating that the maximum monthly 
contribution was £125, matches up with the information that TSB have given us. I can see 
the product fact sheet that TSB forwarded our service says information correct as at 13 
October 2021. The link that Miss L gave us when she asked for an Ombudsman to review 
her complaint shows that when you click on monthly saver summary box, it opens up a 
page which says at the end of page 1 that information correct as at 1 July 2020. This would 
indicate that Miss L has sent us a previous version of TSBs literature for the account and 
that she was originally correct when she brought her complaint to our service by referring to 
the maximum £125 a month contribution. 
Ive seen no evidence that the account information has altered between 13 October 2021 
(the date on the fact sheet I have), to when Miss L opened her account. TSBs website 
shows the interest rate and that interest is payable on balances between £1-£1,500 (based 
on a customer being able to withdraw funds from their account and leave the account open 
with a £1 balance and £1,500 is the maximum balance they would pay interest on) This is 
applicable for TSB monthly saver accounts being opened from 13 October 2021  6 July 
2022. So Im satisfied we have the correct information about the account. 
Ive considered what Miss L has said about there being no maximum deposit limit on the 
account and that the screenshot she provided, shows this. But Im not persuaded that it does 
say theres no maximum limit she can deposit into the account and Ill explain why.The wording that Miss L has provided states no maximum limit on the amount that can be 
held within the account. This is not the same wording as no maximum limit on the amount 
that can be deposited into the account. This would be because the account would gain 
interest, but not everyone would receive the same amount of interest as not everyone would 
deposit the standing order amount on the same day as each month. The account can hold 
more than £1,500, but interest would be paid on a maximum £1,500 balance.
So Im satisfied that despite Miss L being able to enter £1,500 into the initial deposit section, 
she was never eligible to deposit an initial £1,500 into the account and TSB have confirmed 
that the initial deposit amount is a standard question asked as part of their money 
laundering/fraud commitments as a UK bank, but its not product specific, so the online sales 
journey would allow Miss L to enter a larger amount in the initial deposit section. While 
wording on a website is important, she would also have to confirm that she has reviewed the 
terms and conditions and the monthly saver summary box prior to completing her 
application.
So Ive looked at these documents to see if these are clear with how Miss L would need to 
fund and manage the account. The your monthly saver product conditions document 
shows that you can only pay money into your account by standing order from a TSB current 
account. So Im satisfied that this is clear that Miss L wouldnt be able to simply transfer 
money from her TSB current account and that it would need to be made via a standing 
order. 
Ive then looked at the monthly saver document and the summary box. This shows that 
£125 a month which is the maximum you can pay in each month. The summary box also 
shows in the open with section that the account has a £1 minimum balance. While this 
could indicate that the customer could open the account with £1, Im persuaded that the 
wording here is clear that Miss L needs to hold a £1 minimum balance to keep the account 
open. 
This is different to the website wording that Miss L forwarded us. That wording says open 
with and £1 minimum opening balance. So this could indicate that she would be able to 
open the account with £1. But Miss L was wanting to open the account with £1,500, not £0 
or £1. So while Im persuaded this wording could be clearer, Im not persuaded that this 
wording alone would lead Miss L to believe she could contribute £1,500 to the account 
initially. 
I say this based on the other information which is displayed several times on the information 
Miss L provided, the terms and conditions of the account and the summary box of the 
account. It is clear that the account can be funded by standing order only. The information 
Miss L provided us shows that you must set up a standing order between £25 and up to 
£125 from a TSB current account. You can only make one payment each month into your 
account. So Im satisfied that Miss L wouldnt have been able to make an initial faster 
payment/transfer of £1,500 into the account and still meet the terms and conditions by 
contributing monthly. 
The first standing order payment would not have to be made on the day the account was 
open. An example is shown in the summary box where it gives an example of someone 
opening the account on 1 March but paying £125 a month on the 25th of a month. So for all 
of these reasons, Im satisfied that TSB did not mislead Miss L with the wording of their 
website for her to believe she would be able to make an initial deposit of £1,500 into the 
monthly saver account.
Ive considered what Miss L has said about having difficulty setting up a standing order for 
the account. TSB have forwarded our service Miss Ls online banking activity for when she attempted to set up the standing order, but there does not appear to be any error on TSBs 
end as it appears that Miss L has not completed the attempt to set up the standing order. So 
I cant say that they were responsible for any errors with this. I can see they offered to assist 
Miss L if she was still having difficulties with this and TSB have said she has since set up a 
standing order for the account, so Im glad Miss L has been able to set up a standing order 
here.
Im unable to ask TSB to reimburse Miss L for any lost interest up to £1,500 on the account 
when she was never eligible to make an initial deposit of £1,500 into her account. Im 
satisfied this was clear based on the wording on TSBs website (including the terms and 
conditions on the account and the summary box) for the reasons Ive already given. So it 
follows I wont be asking TSB to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman