DRN-3190293
Complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has unfairly refused to refund 
overdraft interest he believes should be refunded as a result of a successful direct debit 
indemnity claim.
Background and my provisional decision of 26 October 2021
In December 2019, Mr H made a direct debit indemnity claim about a regular monthly 
payment taken from his account. He said that his contract with the service provider ended in  
February 2018 and he cancelled the direct debit then. Halifax refunded the payments back to 
Mr H under the terms of the direct debit indemnity. However, Mr H didnt think that this went 
far enough as he wanted any overdraft interest he was charged as a result of the refunded 
payments returned to him.
One of our adjudicators took a look at Mr Hs concerns. She eventually thought that Halifax 
needed to refund any overdraft interest associated with the refunded payments. Halifax 
disagreed and as this was the case Mr Hs complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
On 26 October 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on           
Mr Hs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I thought it would be helpful for me to start my provisional decision by explaining that the 
direct debit guarantee, which Mr H made a claim under, allows a customer to reclaim an 
incorrectly processed direct debit payment or payments. This covers circumstances such as 
payments which werent authorised, taken on the wrong date, or where a customer disputes 
the amount. Typically, a bank will offer a full and immediate refund and the amount is then 
reclaimed from the from the other party. 
In this case, Mr H had disputed the payments on the basis that his contract with the supplier 
ended in February 2018. Halifax provided Mr H with an immediate refund of the monthly 
direct debit payments under the terms of the guarantee. But Mr H also wanted Halifax to 
refund him any overdraft interest he paid as a result of these payments. Having thought 
about what Mr H said, it was my view that the direct debit guarantee entitled an account 
holder to a refund of the direct debit payments themselves. But as far as I could see there 
wasnt anything which guaranteed that any interest accrued would also repaid. 
I also thought it important to note that the payments were made because they were 
requested by the provider under the terms of the original authorisation. So it seemed to me 
that any error here lay with Mr Hs former service provider, rather than with Halifax. And 
while this didnt affect his ability to rely on the guarantee and obtain a refund of the payments 
made, I did think that this affected whether Halifax should be responsible for any additional 
losses Mr H may have incurred. 
Mr H argued that the guarantee indemnifies an account holder against all losses. But I 
thought that such an interpretation was far too wide, open ended and arguably not in 
keeping with a scheme where such errors were usually rectified immediately. Furthermore, 
even if I were to accept Mr Hs interpretation that the guarantee was intended to indemnify 
against all accountholder loss, even though it didnt specifically say this, for the sake of 
completeness I made it clear that I wasnt make that finding, it was, in any event, difficult to 
quantify Mr Hs interest loss. 
I said this was the case because while I accepted that at least some of these payments were 
made from Mr Hs overdraft, I didnt think it was possible to say, with any degree of 
accuracy, what Mr Hs current account balance would have looked like if he hadnt paid this 
direct debit each month. I considered this to be the case as Mr H managed his current 
account on a day-to-day basis  and his spending would have reflected his changing 
circumstances, needs and resources. In other words, Mr Hs balance at any point in time 
was shaped by his continued management of his account and hundreds of individual 
account decisions and transactions.
So it was difficult for me to say that the amount of the transaction would have remained in 
the account had it not been taken. I couldnt say that Mr H wouldnt have otherwise spent the 
amount of the transaction, on other things. Indeed, I thought this was supported by the fact 
that it took Mr H almost two years to realise that these payments were still being taken from 
his account. 
I thought that it would be far too speculative for me to simply assume that Mr H would have 
paid significantly less interest and even if he would have how much less, if these payments 
which were initially authorised hadnt been taken. This meant I didnt think I could safely say 
that a particular amount of fees or charges would have been avoided (if it hadnt been for the 
monthly direct debit) unless I could see that it was disputed payment which directly caused 
additional charges in any given month. And I didnt see any instances where this was the 
case  certainly not in the period between February 2018 and December 2019.
Bearing all of this mind, I set out that it was my intention to issue a final decision which found 
that what Halifax had already done was fair and reasonable, in all the circumstances, and so 
it hadnt treated Mr H unfairly. It immediately refunded the disputed payments  as per the 
terms of the direct debit guarantee. And I wasnt at that stage persuaded that Mr H had been 
unfairly refused an interest payment which he was entitled to. So I didnt think that Halifax 
unfairly dealt with Mr Hs direct debt indemnity claim and as a result I made it clear that I 
wasnt intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr Hs response to my provisional decision   
Mr H disagreed responded confirming that he disagreed with my provisional decision. His 
reasons for disagreeing with my provisional decision can be summarised as follows: 
Hibbert v HSBC Bank Plc [2017] 12 WLUK 60 quoted the following "The Direct Debit 
Guarantee is unlimited as to time and amount and paying banks will accept the word 
of the payer concerning an error made by a service user and raise an Indemnity 
Claim.", from the Direct Debit Service Users Guide and Rules to the Direct Debit 
Scheme. So the starting point is that an ombudsman is entitled to order overpaid 
overdraft interest to be repaid under the scheme.
In Verity v Lloyds Bank Plc [1995] 9 WLUK 19 an overcharge of overdraft interest 
was accepted and the court acknowledged that an such an overcharge might have 
been a breach of contract and negligent. While a breach of contract or negligence 
claim hadnt been made, it is nonetheless argued that the principles relating to 
damages in those areas of law are relevant to my decision of what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case.The principle for recovery in a breach of contract claim would be to place Mr H in the 
same situation as if the contract had been performed  subject to the rule of 
remoteness.
The overdraft interest over-charged to Mr H was a loss that arose in the usual course 
of things and should reasonably have been contemplated by Halifax when it 
processed the direct debit payments in question. And the extra overdraft interest paid 
is as a direct result of the processed direct debit payments.
If the matter had been dealt with under the law of negligence, the general principle 
for compensation would be that the court would seek to award a sum to place Mr H in 
the position hed be in had he not sustained that wrong. If Mr Hs direct debits hadnt 
been incorrectly processed the amount of overdraft interest he paid would have been 
lower. So it is necessary, fair and reasonable for the extra overdraft interest to be 
refunded in order to place Mr H back in the position he would be in had the direct 
debit payments been properly processed.
A failure to require Halifax to repay the extra interest would be out of line with the 
principles governing contract and tort law.  
The nature and purpose of the Direct Debit Guarantee scheme is to entirely remove 
the risk of loss from Mr H and to place that risk on Halifax. So even though the error 
was made by Mr Hs former service provider, Halifaxs lack of fault doesnt mean he 
isnt entitled to repayment from Halifax.
He isnt seeking indemnification from all losses hes only seeking to recover direct 
reasonably foreseeable losses.
Halifaxs response to my provisional decision
Halifax confirmed that it received my provisional decision and agreed with it. Nonetheless 
after seeing a copy of Mr Hs response, it:
reiterated that the direct debit indemnity only entitled an account holder to the direct 
debit payments in question. It does not mean a bank is liable for any interest.
didnt consider Hibbert v HSBC Bank Plc [2017] 12 WLUK 60 relevant as it accepted 
Mr Hs word and paid his claim.
said there wasnt anything to suggest that it made an error here as Mr Hs provider 
had a valid mandate to collect the payments in question and Mr H hadnt cancelled 
this instruction with Halifax.
considers that any claim for breach of contract and damages should be directed to 
the provider. And, in any event, this is a matter for the bank to determine as it wasnt 
a party to Mr Hs contract with his provider. All it did was check whether the claim met 
the scheme rules and as it did it reclaimed the funds from the provider. argues that the purpose of the direct debit guarantee isnt to place the risk on a bank. 
The scheme allows a customer to request the funds from the bank but the provider 
could still pursue other avenues to recover the funds.
reiterated that the direct debit payments were correctly processed from Mr Hs 
account and any overdraft fees apportioned accordingly.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their further comments. I can confirm that Ive read and considered all 
of the arguments and submissions theyve made and provided. 
I want to start by saying that I am aware that I am entitled to require Halifax to refund any 
interest Mr H paid as a result of the refunded direct debits, should I consider that it would be 
fair and reasonable to so in the circumstances of this complaint. So I want to make it clear 
that my reference to the terms of the direct debit guarantee not providing an automatic 
guarantee of the reimbursement of any interest only formed part of the reasoning in my 
provisional decision. 
My provisional decision went on to set out why I thought the particular circumstances of the 
case meant that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to require Halifax to refund any interest 
here. In particular, Id refer the parties to my thoughts on the difficulty in calculating any 
interest loss Mr H may have suffered given the period concerned and the number of 
transactions going through his account.     
Furthermore, Ive read and considered the cases Mr H has referred to. But I dont think its 
unfair to say that none of the cases cited directly considered the issue of whether an account 
holder is entitled to anything more than any disputed direct debit payments, as a result of 
direct debit indemnity claim. So I find the caselaw that Mr H has referred to be of limited 
relevance here  especially as Halifax has quite rightly pointed out that it did accept Mr Hs 
word concerning an error made by a service user and repaid the payments in question, 
irrespective of the amount and the fact that the payments had been made for almost two 
years, under the direct debit indemnity.   
Equally, I dont find Mr Hs reference to the principles relating to damages for breach of 
contract and negligence to be particularly helpful here, as there is no indication that Halifax 
breached its contract with Mr H or acted negligently towards him. I dont think the 
circumstances of this case are analogous with Verity given in that case there was a clear 
acceptance the claimant had been overcharged interest on their overdraft and there has 
been no acceptance of this kind here. Indeed, there has never been any argument that any 
interest added to Mr Hs overdraft was done so incorrectly, at the time the payments under 
the valid mandate were requested at least, or that it wasnt added in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Hs overdraft agreement with Halifax.   
Ive also thought about what Mr H has said about any lack of fault on Halifaxs part not being 
material to his entitlement to payment from Halifax. I agree that the terms of the direct debit 
guarantee dont require fault on Halifaxs part for Mr H to be entitled to a refund of the 
disputed payments. This is precisely why Mr H did receive a refund of the disputed 
payments as soon as he made his claim. But Mr H is seeking more than just the payments 
here. And it remains the case that Mr Hs provider requested the payments in question under 
an existing mandate which, it isnt in dispute, hadnt been cancelled with Halifax. So I dont 
agree that Halifax did incorrectly process the payments at the time they were requested. And most importantly, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to find Halifax liable for 
any consequential losses Mr H may have suffered.  
As this is the case and given what Ive previously said about the difficulty in quantifying how 
much, if any, of the interest Mr H paid was and is directly attributable to the direct debits, 
which Mr H chose not to address at all in his response to my provisional decision, Im 
satisfied that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to require Halifax to refund Mr H 
anything more than the direct debit payments it has already refunded as a result of his 
indemnity claim.
So overall and while Ive considered the further points the parties have made in response to 
my provisional decision of 26 October 2021, Ive not been persuaded to alter my 
conclusions. I remain satisfied that what Halifax has already done is fair and reasonable, in 
all the circumstances. Im not persuaded Mr H has been unfairly refused an interest payment 
hes entitled to. So Im satisfied Halifax hasnt dealt with Mr Hs direct debt indemnity claim 
unfairly and I dont think it is fair and reasonable, given the circumstances here, for me to 
require a refund of any interest. As such Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision of 26 October 2021, Im not 
upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman