DRN-1757596
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled his car 
insurance claim and the disposal of his vehicle. 
All references to Advantage in my decision include its agents.
What happened
Mr Bs car was involved in an accident in December 2019, and after reviewing the damage, 
Advantage said the car was beyond repair. They contacted Mr B with a settlement valuation 
for the car but he felt it was too low, saying hed recently purchased a very similar vehicle for 
nearly twice the settlement amount.
Mr B says he made Advantage aware hed like to buy back his vehicle and they noted this 
down and said theyd value the car again, so the settlement offer may change.
When Mr B hadnt heard anything from Advantage a month later, he got in touch with them, 
and they apologised for not being in touch. They confirmed the car had been revalued and 
the settlement offer had increased. Mr B accepted this new, higher figure. He says he 
thought hed receive the settlement and get his car back. When Mr B hadnt received the 
settlement amount by the date Advantage had told him, he complained.
Advantage responded to the complaint saying the settlement cheque had been sent to the 
wrong address, which they rectified by sending a bank transfer. But they said they couldnt 
find any record of Mr B saying he wanted to get the car back, apart from a retention figure 
being provided to him. Having looked into this further, Advantage confirmed to Mr B that the 
car had since been sold and couldnt be given back to him.
Advantage recognised there had been some delays and poor service and offered Mr B £400 
compensation, as well as refunding his call costs. Mr B was unhappy with this as he wanted 
his car back.
Our investigator looked at Mr Bs complaint and listened to phone calls between him and 
Advantage. Having done so, he didnt identify that Mr B had said he wanted to keep the 
vehicle, and he felt Advantages offer of compensation was reasonable, so he didnt 
recommend that this be increased. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view, saying he felt theres enough evidence available 
to show the car should have been returned to him, and he considers it was sold on illegally. 
Mr B mentions that he was copied into an email from Advantage to the salvage company 
which confirmed the car should have been retained. As Mr B disagreed with the 
investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has confirmed that he accepts the valuation of the vehicle, and so I wont comment on 
the amount Advantage offered for his car on the claim. But I have considered whether 
Advantage was wrong to dispose of the car and whether the compensation it offered in 
respects of its claims handling was reasonable..
Insurers should deal with claims promptly and fairly, and once settlement terms are agreed 
the claim should be settled promptly.  The policy terms say that where the car is a total loss 
Advantage will make a cash payment up to the market value of the car, and is entitled to 
keep it. If the car was beyond economical repair and Advantage has paid Mr B its market 
value, thats in line with the policy terms. But Mr B says he told Advantage he wanted his car 
back and it should have arranged for this to happen. So Ive considered what was discussed 
in relation to this.
On the first call Ive listened to, Mr B asks  if he were to buy the car back  what amount 
Advantage would offer him, and the adviser gives a figure. Mr B asks whether the salvage 
company was going to take away the car until everythings resolved, and the adviser says 
they can hold them off for potentially one or two weeks. The adviser explains that as Mr B 
wasnt happy with the initial settlement offer, this would be reviewed and Advantage would 
get back in touch with him. He also advises Mr B that once the settlement figure has been 
reviewed, if this has increased it would affect the retention figure being offered for the car. 
On this call Mr B confirms that hed already bought a replacement car.
In the second call, Mr B phones Advantage to chase up the reviewed settlement offer, and 
hes given a higher settlement offer for his car. Mr B says hell accept it, and he confirms this 
to the adviser.
Mr B has referred to an email he was copied into from Advantage to the salvage company. 
In this email Advantage said they should have safeguarded the vehicle as Mr B was looking 
to retain it and Mr B had told Advantage that the salvage company needed confirmation from 
the insurer to return the vehicle. The salvage company replied to Advantages email, saying 
they had spoken to Mr B that morning, and they didnt advise that they needed confirmation 
from Advantage to return the vehicle, as that decision was for Advantage to make and not 
them.
Looking at this email exchange, it seems to me this arose from a point Mr B put forward 
about not receiving the car back in the complaint that he made. This email is sent from a 
complaint handler for Advantage looking into the complaint, and I havent seen evidence to 
show that it was noted anywhere that Mr Bs intentions were to take the car back.
I havent been provided with any information from Mr B to show he confirmed to Advantage 
that he wanted to retain the car, or that he accepted a new retention figure based on the 
higher valuation. Mr B accepted the settlement figure for the car over the phone in February. 
He made no mention of a retention figure and didnt question getting the car back. Mr B 
wouldnt be entitled to receive the full cash settlement and get the car back as well. So he 
would have needed to discuss arrangements for retaining the salvage vehicle and the 
deductions to be taken from the settlement in respect of this. As this wasnt discussed, I 
dont think he had a reasonable expectation that hed be getting the car back.
Advantage emailed Mr B two days later with confirmation of the vehicles valuation, which he 
says he didnt receive. However Mr B had to then chase up the cheque which had been sent 
out following a phone call on 17 February, and I cant see he questioned at this point the 
return of the car.Im satisfied there was enough time for Mr B to have raised the question regarding what 
retention figure was due for the car after accepting the higher settlement figure. The 
information Ive seen doesnt confirm it was Mr Bs intention to pay for the car to be returned; 
hed confirmed he had already bought a replacement car in January and I havent seen 
evidence of Mr B questioning the retention or return of the car. On this basis Im satisfied the 
settlement made was in line with the policy terms and was fair.
Advantage acknowledge that the settlement cheque was sent to the incorrect address, and 
arranged for a bank transfer to be made to Mr B once they were aware of this. Theyve also 
noted that there was some delay dealing with the claim, and that Mr B had to chase for 
updates. In total, Advantage has refunded the call costs that Mr B has evidenced and offered 
him £400 in compensation for the service failings. Taking all of this into account I consider 
the offer is reasonable, and I wont be asking Advantage to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21July2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman