DRN-4334042
The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account without 
expanation and didnt credit his reward points. Hed like his benefits credited and 
compensation for the impact.
What happened
Mr H had a rewards club premium credt card account with Creation which included an 
annual fee of £99. The card included the ability to earn reward points, which could be 
redeemed for hotel stays or experiences, and a hotel voucher for a free night stay.
In late 2021, Creation sent Mr H a letter informing him that his credit card account would be 
closed on in December 2021. And they wouldnt be crediting him the points for the last 
statement period or a refund of the unused annual fee. Mr H didnt meet the threshold for the 
free night voucher at the time his account was closed.
Mr H complained to Creation. But Creation didnt uphold his complaint. They said they acted 
fairly in closing Mr Hs account, not crediting the points, and not refunding the annual fee. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Creations response and brought his compaint to our service. He 
said he wants compensation for the impact Creation closing his account had on him. And 
wants a refund of his card fee and points applied to his account.
After Mr H brought his complaint to our service Creation made an offer to resolve Mr Hs 
complaint. They offered Mr H the points not credited and a pro-rata refund of the annual card 
fee. Mr H didnt accept the offer as he didnt think the offer went far enough to put things 
right and didnt contain enough detail. He said that Creation needed to do more and havent 
offered compensation for the time, hassle and inconvenience caused and having to raise a 
complaint with our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and thought Creation needed to do 
more. Our investigator thought that as well as offering to refund the annual fee and points, 
Creation should pay Mr H £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused to him by not 
awarding his points and refunding his account fee at the time it had closed Mr Hs account.
Mr H didnt respond. Creation rejected the investigators recommendations. Creation said it 
had done enough to put things right and could withdraw the card benefits at any time. So it 
didnt accept it should pay Mr H any further compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said the following:
Account closure
Creation can only close accounts in certain cirucumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Hs account. I reviewed the terms and they explain that Creation can close an account for 
any reason by giving 60 days notice. I appreciate this is disappointing for Mr H however, 
Creation have provided Mr H with the full notice period, so I cant say Creation have acted 
unfairly.
Annual fee, withholding of points and hotel voucher
Creation have offered to reimburse Mr Hs points and give a pro-rata refund. I note too that 
Mr H hasnt disputed that he didnt meet the threshold for the free night voucher. Im satisfied 
that Creation shouldnt have deprived Mr H of access to the points and pro-rata refund when 
initially closing the account. But Im pleased to see that they have now agreed to rectify this. 
I understand that Creation has already reimbursed Mr H his points. But Mr H is still awaiting 
his annual fee refund. Creation have offered Mr H the pro-rata refund of the annual account 
fee, which he paid in July 2021. This is fair and reasonable as Mr H commented hes paid for 
the full year of the credit card, but only received a partial years worth of service. I agree that 
he shouldnt have to pay for the full year. Having reviewed the figures, Im satisfied the 
offered £49.50 represents a pro-rated refund of the unused portion. I note that Creation has 
agreed to provide Mr H a pro-rata refund, but I will make an award in that sum, of £49.50, so 
that Mr H can enforce it should he need to do so. 
Mr H has said he wants additional compensation to resolve this matter. Hes pointed out that 
hes spent time and effort trying to resolve his complaint. And says he has waited a long time 
for things to be sorted out. The investigator also thought that Creation should also pay Mr H 
£50 compensation for poor service, as he thought Creation should have transferred Mr Hs 
points and refunded his account fee at the time it closed Mr Hs account. But as Ive 
mentioned above the closure was reasonable and in line with the terms.
I should explain that our awards are designed to reflect the actual loss, trouble, and upset 
caused to the consumer by something a financial business did wrong. We are not here to 
punish financial businesses. Nor can we award compensation as a means of punishing a 
business for a consumer bringing their complaint to this service. Mr H has asked to be 
compensated for the time hes had to wait for his complaint to be resolved. But Id need to be 
satisfied that hes lost out by not having his points or account fee returned sooner. And on 
balance, and in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I cant say this is the case. So, 
Ive not seen anything to suggest Creation should pay Mr H any more than theyve already 
offered to do so.
To put things right I said that If they hadnt already done so, Creation should refund the 
unused part of the annual fee, and credit Mr Hs outstanding award club points to his 
account.
Creation accepted my provisional decision and said that Mr Hs pro rota refund amounted to 
£62.65, which was slightly more than Id set out in my provisional decision. Creation said it 
was happy to refund this amount to Mr H. Creation also said that it had transferred Mr Hs 
outstanding reward points, amounting to 706 to his IHG account in mid - April 2023. 
Mr H didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary he said:
Creation hadnt refunded him the pro-rata refund       at its earliest opportunity to do 
so, which was when he raised his complaint. Despite refunding other customers.
Hes had to raise a complaint with our service so he should be compensated for the 
time and effort that had taken him
He should be compensated for the loss of use of the pro-rata refund and use of his 
pointsNow both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has highlighted a number of concerns, which Ill now address below.
Firstly, I acknowledge Mr Hs comments about other individuals who have made similar 
complaints about Creation. But I cant comment on those. This decision has focussed solely 
Mr Hs complaint. And each complaint is considered on its own individual merits.
I acknowledge that Mr H wants more compensation but as I explained in my provisional 
decision, our awards are designed to reflect the actual loss, trouble, and upset caused to the 
consumer by something a financial business did wrong. We are not here to punish financial 
businesses. Nor can we award compensation as a means of punishing a business for a 
consumer bringing their complaint to this service. 
Mr H has asked to be compensated for the time hes had to wait for his complaint to be 
resolved. And for the loss of use of his refund and points. But Id need to be satisfied that 
hes lost out by not having his points or account fee returned sooner. And on balance, I cant 
say this is the case. Therefore, I wont be awarding interest or further compensation.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr H feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and upsetting time. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But 
I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this 
complaint should be upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are 
repeated above and form part of this decision. 
To put things right, Creation has agreed to provide Mr H a pro-rata refund, but I will make an 
award in that sum, of £62.65, so that Mr H can enforce it should he need to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Creation Financial Services 
Limited to pay Mr H £62.65.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman