DRN-2898809
The complaint
Mrs A complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) have refused to accept her claim that three 
transactions on her account were fraudulent.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I dont think its likely that the transactions Mrs A complains about were completed without 
her knowledge or approval. I say that because:
the three payments in question were correctly authenticated using Mrs As card 
details and security information;
I think its likely Mrs A consented to the payments being made because:
oguest check out was completed on three occasions and that meant that 
personal details and card details would have needed to be added on three 
separate occasions. I think only someone with knowledge of Mrs As 
information could do that;
othe orders used Mrs As address and thats the same address we have on file 
for her. I dont think its likely a fraudster would want goods delivered to Mrs 
As address;
owhilst I understand Mrs A thinks the orders were diverted to another address, 
Ive seen evidence from the delivery company that all orders were delivered 
to her address and signed for. I think that suggests Mrs A, or someone close 
to her, received the goods and its likely Mrs A would be aware of the 
deliveries;
oNewDay have evidenced that the phone number used was one that used to 
be attached to this account and one on which they had previously spoken to 
Mrs A;
othe IP and mobile provider details matched previous usage from Mrs A.
Taken together, I think this evidence is persuasive evidence that Mrs A authorised these 
transactions or provided the necessary authorisation details to someone else. I dont 
therefore think NewDay have been unreasonable to reject her claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman