DRN-4253646
The complaint
Mr G complains that Oplo PL Ltd trading as Oplo lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
In February 2022 Mr G applied for a loan. Oplo approved the application and gave Mr G a 
loan for £5000 repayable over 60 months.
In December 2022 Mr G applied for a second loan to consolidate loan 1 as well as some 
other debts. Oplo approved the application and gave Mr G a loan for £10,000 repayable over 
60 months,
Mr G initially complained to this service about loan 1. This was considered as a separate 
complaint, so I wont be addressing it further in this decision.
Mr G complained that loan 2 had been lent to him irresponsibly.
Oplo didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr G.
Mr G remained unhappy and complained to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I wasnt upholding the complaint. I 
explained that before agreeing to lend, Oplo needed to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Mr G could sustainably repay what was being lent to 
him.
I looked at the checks that Oplo had carried out. It gathered information about Mr Gs income 
and expenditure and carried out a credit search. The credit search showed that Mr G had 9 
active credit accounts with unsecured debt or around £27,463. Around £10,000 of this debt 
was to be consolidated by the loan with Oplo. The credit checks showed that Mr G was 
managing all of his credit accounts well  there were no missed payments, no defaults and 
no arrears on any of the active accounts.
I looked at the affordability assessment that Oplo had carried out. This showed that Mr G 
had monthly disposable income of around £497. So, it appeared that the loan repayment of 
£269 would be affordable for Mr G.
I said that because Mr G was using around 48% of his monthly income to repay debt, it 
would have been proportionate for Oplo to have carried out further checks to get a better 
understanding of Mr Gs financial circumstances. I went on to consider what further checks 
would have shown. I looked at Mr Gs bank statements for the period leading up to the 
lending decision because I think this gives a fair indication of Mr Gs financial circumstances 
at the time.
The bank statements show that in the month prior to the lending decision, Mr G made 6 
gambling transactions totalling £265. Mr G has said that this shows he had a gambling 
problem and that Oplo shouldnt have lent to him. I wasnt persuaded that this was the case. 
I havent seen enough information to show that Mr G was gambling at this level month on 
month. There wasnt enough information to show that Mr G had a gambling problem or that 
he spent regularly on gambling.
So, with that in mind I thought about whether, had it seen the 6 gambling transactions, Oplo 
would have reached a different decision on the loan. And on balance, I concluded that Oplo 
would still have lent to Mr G, because although his debt to income ratio was high, Mr G had 
sufficient monthly disposable income to afford the loan repayments.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise.
Mr G responded and said he disagreed with my provisional decision. He said hed had a 
similar case upheld by this service.
Oplo responded and said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board what Mr G has said and I appreciate that he was disappointed by my 
provisional decision because the outcome was different to another of his complaints. 
However, this service considers every case on its own circumstances and merits. 
I havent been provided with any further information which has persuaded me to change my 
view. So I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that which I reached in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman