DRN-3838864
The complaint
Mr and Mr P are unhappy with the way in which AWP P&C SA handled a claim made on
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had the benefit of an annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by AWP (the
policy).
At the end of January 2021, and whilst abroad with Mrs P and their son, Mr P slipped and
injured himself. He also experienced symptoms of concussion. He was taken to hospital.
Mrs P contacted AWP and was told that any medical costs under £500 would need to be
paid by Mr and Mrs P. Mrs P explained that costs were likely to far exceed this. But, having
not received any further update from AWP, Mr P left hospital and returned to his
accommodation with Mrs P.
Mr and Mrs P were due to fly back to the UK a few days later. But they were advised that Mr
P wouldnt be fit to fly  at least until Mr P had stopped experiencing symptoms. They ended
up flying home in early March 2021.
Ultimately, AWP agreed to cover Mr Ps medical costs and the majority of his and Mrs Ps
accommodation costs for the extended trip, whilst Mr P was recovering.
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that AWP didnt cover the following costs:
- one nights accommodation at the end of their trip;
- Covid-tests which Mr P, Mrs P and their son were required to take after they returned
to the UK;
- UK kennel costs and airport parking costs in respect of their extended stay abroad;
- car hire and fuel costs to cover the extended period whilst abroad;
- additional expenses such as for food and drink in respect of their extended stay.
Theyre also very unhappy with the assistance provided by AWP after it was notified of Mr
Ps injuries. This included receiving confusing or incomplete information. Theyre also
unhappy that the medical information form provided to the airline reflecting that Mr P was fit
to fly has been completed by the attending physician but wasnt. It had been completed by
AWP. Mr and Mrs P are concerned that Mr P was determined to be fit to fly against the
medical advice of the treating hospital. They say that upon his return to the UK, Mr P
experienced a stroke and travelling when he wasnt fit was a contributory factor.
Our investigator looked into what happened and requested information from both parties.
AWP ultimately accepted that it should reimburse Mr and Mrs P one nights accommodation
at the end of the trip. It also said it would consider contributing to their hire car and fuel
costs.
Mr and Mrs P werent able to provide any medical evidence that Mr Ps stroke was caused
by him travelling when he wasnt fit to fly. Theyve said that theyve tried to obtain this
information from Mr Ps medical team but due to the impact of Covid-19 on staffing levels,
they havent been able to.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He recommended that AWP:
- reimburse Mr and Mrs P for cost of one nights accommodation, car hire and fuel
costs together with simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the date on
which the claim was paid to the date on which these sums are settled.
- pay Mr and Mrs P £300 compensation for the way in which the emergency
assistance and repatriation processes were handled.
AWP said it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs P didnt provide a substantive reply to 
our investigators view; only to confirm that they were still trying to obtain documentary 
evidence confirming that the stroke Mr P experienced was partly due to him travelling when 
he wasnt fit to. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued my provisional decision in November 2022, explaining why I was also intending to 
partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. But because I was intending to direct AWP to pay 
Mr and Mrs P £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience, I wanted to give the 
parties an opportunity to respond. 
AWP didnt have anything to add. Mr and Mrs P explained why they felt the costs of 
extended airport parking and kennel fees should be covered by AWP, as well as food and 
drink expenses and the Covid-19 tests they (and their son) were due to take after arriving 
back in the UK. 
Having considered Mr and Mrs Ps further points, I asked our investigator to also let the 
parties know why I was now also considering directing AWP to pay the costs of the Covid-19 
tests which needed to be done in the UK after Mr and Mrs P, and their son, returned  
together with simple interest. I invited further comments but didnt receive any reply. 
So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably
decline a claim.
One nights accommodation
AWP has now agreed to cover this cost in the sum of around $120. However, I think it
shouldve agreed this payment much earlier. Although AWP made a pre-payment to the
hotel for one nights accommodation, it was aware from Mr and Mrs P that when theyd
turned up at the hotel, AWP had booked the wrong dates. So, Mr and Mrs P had to pay one
nights accommodation themselves.
Car hire and fuel
The emergency medical expenses section of the policy at page 15 (clause 1a) reflects cover
is provided for necessary transport charges. This phrase isnt defined under the policy.The weather conditions where Mr and Mrs P were staying were extreme and they were
staying in a relatively remote location. Ive seen photos showing that there had been
significant snowfall, affecting the roads. They also say the temperature was around minus 20
degrees Celsius and theres emails passing between Mrs P and AWP at the time,
mentioning snowstorms. So, I accept what they say about that.
Ive also seen mention of AWP saying it would pay the taxi fares for certain trips to and from
the hospital. Given where Mr and Mrs P were staying, the weather conditions, the nature of
Mr Ps condition, the times he had to visit the hospital and other facilities, and the impact this
was all having on their son, I think its fair and reasonable for AWP to cover the costs of Mr
and Mrs Ps extended car hire and fuel as I think they constitute necessary transport
charges.
Covid-tests to be taken on days 2 and 8 after returning to the UK
The emergency medical expenses section of the policy says at clause 1b that AWP will pay 
reasonable repatriation expenses.
When Mr and Mrs P (and their son) were originally due to depart the country theyd visited in 
early February 2021, there wasnt a requirement to book and pay for day 2 and day 8 Covid-
tests prior to travelling to the UK. That changed with effect of mid-February 2021. So, that 
wasnt a cost Mr and Mrs P wouldve needed to have incurred had Mr P not been unwell and 
the trip had not been extended to 2 March 2022 when he and his family travelled back to the 
UK.
Mr and Mrs P (and their son) wouldnt have been able to fly back to the UK unless theyd
pre-booked the day 2 and day 8 tests. They needed confirmation that these had been
purchased for the passenger locator form to be completed. And without this, they wouldnt 
have been able to board their flight, unless they and airline risked significant fines.
So, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint, that those 
costs should be covered under the policy as they constitute reasonable repatriation 
expenses. 
Kennel fees, airport parking and food and drink
The general exclusions under the policy (clause 5a) reflect that theres no cover for
any loss connected to the event you are claiming for unless the insurer specifically provides
cover under this policy.
As the policy doesnt expressly provide cover for kennel costs and airport parking, I think 
AWP has fairly and reasonably concluded that these expenses arent covered under the 
policy. I appreciate that they wouldnt have been incurred had Mr and Mrs P not had to 
extend their trip because of Mr Ps accident and subsequent symptoms  and I understand 
why they say theyre direct costs arising from Mr Ps injury. However, theyre not specifically 
covered under the policy. And further, the policy specifically excludes any food and drink 
expenses (clause 5(b)(iii) of the general exclusions).
So, I dont think in the circumstances of this case, its unfair or unreasonable for AWP to rely 
on the policy terms when declining that part of their claim. 
Mr and Mrs P has also referred to section D of the policy  cancellation or curtailment. 
However, because they didnt cut short their trip and it wasnt cancelled, I dont think this 
section of the policy is applicable to their claim.
Emergency assistance and repatriationIm satisfied that AWP reasonably ought to have provided better assistance to Mr and Mrs P
after it was notified of Mr Ps injury.
AWP confirmed that medical costs below £500 would need to be met by Mr and Mrs P and
then claimed back from AWP. However, when Mrs P confirmed that medical expenses would
far exceed this sum, I think AWP shouldve been more proactive with the assistance
provided at that time. Mrs P was clearly already distressed by Mr P being discharged from
the hospitals care and by having to extend the trip because Mr P wasnt deemed fit to fly by
the date they were due to fly to the UK, a few days later. She wanted to know whether AWP
would cover Mr Ps medical costs, extended accommodation costs and other expenses such
as car hire. This distress wouldve been exacerbated by AWP subsequently confirming that
Mr Ps medical costs and his and Mrs Ps accommodation costs would be covered, only to
be told the following day that AWP was still considering its position. Although, Mr and Mrs P
were later told that these costs would be covered, there was a period, where this was in
doubt.
Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs P wouldve been worried by AWPs position that it wouldnt
cover the cost of car hire given the circumstances Mr and Mrs P found themselves in 
which, for the reasons set out above, I think was unreasonable in the circumstances of this
case. Mr and Mrs P were clearly concerned about not being able to afford upfront costs
caused by their trip being extended through no fault of their own and being told that theyd
have to cover the cost of car hire and fuel wouldve made a distressing situation even worse
for them.
Looking at the emails passing between the parties and the contact notes from February
2021, there are also occasions when I dont think AWP answered questions put to it by Mrs
P about certain appointments, Covid-19 tests and how Mr P has been determined to be fit to
fly  or when responses were given, they were sometimes unclear. This resulted in Mrs P
having to unnecessarily seek further clarification.
Further, when Mr and Mrs P arrived at the airport hotel with their son the day before they
were due to fly back to the UK, they discovered that the wrong dates had been booked by
AWP and they had to pay the for a room upfront if they wanted to stay there. This is despite
Mrs P previously telling AWP that they had maxed out their credit cards due to having to
stay longer abroad than theyd expected.
So, Im satisfied AWP caused Mr and Mrs P unnecessary distress and inconvenience at an 
already very difficult time for them. From the communications Ive seen passing between the 
parties between late January and early March 2021, its clear that Mrs P was becoming 
increasingly frustrated by some of the communications and I accept this wouldve needlessly 
exacerbated the worry and stress they were bound to be feeling.
I also think Mr and Mrs P wouldve been worried by having discovered that the medical form
provided to the airline  confirming that Mr P was fit to fly - hadnt been completed by the
treating physician as stated at the top of the form. It had been completed by AWP. I can see
that some of the information on the form had been incorrectly completed such as reflecting
that Mr P had taken a commercial flight since first experiencing his symptoms which wasnt
right. Their worries wouldve been made worse by being informed that the doctor, who is
detailed on the form as the treating doctor, saying they dont recollect stating that Mr P was
fit to fly and none of his colleagues at the hospital agreed that he was fit to fly given his
symptoms. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs P were understandably worried that AWP hadnt
followed due process when arranging their repatriation.
The policy does say AWP reserves the right to repatriate you to your home country when inthe opinion of the medical assistance service, you are fit to travel. AWP says its
recommendation that Mr P was fit to fly was in line within certain guidelines regarding a
diagnosis of a brain concussion. And given the time between the accident and the flight, and
the results of the MRI, its medical team deemed him to be fit to fly.
Im not a medical expert and dont make a finding about whether Mr P was fit to fly.
Thats because, ultimately, he did return to the UK on the return flight which had been
arranged. Mr and Mrs P say that his medical team in the UK has confirmed that he
experienced a stroke after returning to the UK, caused in part by flying back to the UK when
he wasnt fit to. However, Ive seen no medical evidence that this was the case. So, even if
AWP was wrong to determine him fit to fly (which Im not making a finding on), Ive
seen nothing to say that this had a detrimental impact on his health. He travelled back
business class with his wife and son as per the advice of AWPs medical team.
However, from their perspective, I can see why Mr and Mrs P wouldve been upset to
discover that AWP didnt seek the treating hospitals medical opinion whether he was fit to
fly. And why theyre concerned that the airline may have relied on incorrect information on
the medical information form (as completed by AWP) to allow Mr P to board the flight, given
his continuing symptoms.
I direct AWP to pay them £750 to reflect the unnecessary distress, worry and
inconvenience Mr and Mrs P experienced as a result of what AWP did wrong in this case.
Putting things right
I direct AWP to:
(i) pay the claim for one nights accommodation on 1 March 2021 in the approximate sum of 
$120;
(ii) subject to Mr and Mrs P providing documentary evidence of the amount they paid, pay 
the claim for car hire in the approximate sum of £1,000;
(iii) pay the claim for car fuel for the extended part of the trip in the sum of $450;
(iv) pay the Covid-19 test package for Mr and Mrs P (and their son) in the sum of £630;
(v) pay simple interest on amounts (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) at a rate of 8% per annum from
the date on which the part of the claim was accepted to the date on which those amounts 
are settled by AWP.
(vi) pay Mr and Mrs P compensation for distress and inconvenience in the sum of £750.
(vii) provide Mr and Mrs P with a clear breakdown of all the interest calculation paid to them.
If AWP considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any
interest paid, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give them a
certificate showing this if asked for one. That way Mr and Mrs P can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I direct AWP P&C SA to put things right in the 
way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman