DRN-2012029
The complaint
Mrs G, the executor of the Estate of Mr G, has brought this complaint as she is unhappy with 
the compensation HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) has offered to settle a complaint about a 
mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken by Mr G out alongside a loan. 
What happened
Mr G applied for a loan in October 2003 and at the same time took out a PPI policy. The loan 
and PPI were active from 1 December 2003. To pay for the PPI premium Mr G borrowed 
extra with his loan and so paid interest on the premium amount. 
In March 2004 Mr G told HSBC he wanted to cancel the PPI. To do this HSBCs process 
was to end the initial loan, remover the PPI, and set up a new loan for the outstanding 
amount without PPI.
Mrs G has complained the PPI was mis-sold to Mr G. HSBC has agreed to uphold the 
complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and offered to pay £2,452.76 compensation after tax is 
deducted. 
This compensation was made up of a refund of the total of the PPI premium paid, including 
loan rate interest charged on the PPI, plus some compensatory interest for any times Mr G 
was out of pocket. 
Mrs G isnt happy with the amount of compensation offered as she says it should be at least 
£2,838.63 as that was the cost of the PPI premium and interest added to the loan at the 
start. She also has a number of other issues about the financial advice provided to Mr G in 
2003 and 2004 and the possibility of a claim that should have been made by Mr G.
Our adjudicator said what HSBC had offered and done was fair. Mrs G remains unhappy 
and has asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has agreed to uphold the complaint and pay compensation for the PPI that was mis-
sold. But Mrs G remains unhappy with the amount of compensation and a number of other 
issues.
In this decision I am only looking at the complaint about the PPI that was mis-sold with the 
loan Mr G took out in 2003. Mrs G has expressed concern about the financial advice Mr G 
received about his borrowings but that would be a different matter that would need to be 
taken up with the business separately. 
Mrs G has also raised issues about Information requests she has made to HSBC and also 
about the possibility of making a back dated claim on the PPI policy. These are all again 
separate matters and Mrs G has been provided with information about who to go to if she is 
unhappy with anything outstanding relating to these issues.
Turning to the PPI policy sold to Mr G in 2003, HSBC has agreed the policy was mis-sold 
and upheld that complaint, offering compensation to settle it. I am looking at if the 
compensation HSBC has offered is fair.
When considering compensation for mis-sold PPI, the aim of the compensation is to put the 
consumer as far as possible in the position they would have been in if they had never taken 
out the PPI. This means refunding everything that the consumer paid for the costs of the PPI 
plus compensatory interest for any time a consumer if out of pocket for those costs. The 
compensatory interest in this case would be 8% simple interest for the time from 2003 
onwards.
The premium for the PPI Mr G took out was £2,652.24 and £2,650 was added to his loan to 
pay for this. As this amount was added to what Mr G borrowed it caused interest which in 
total would have been £188.63. This is all set out on the loan agreement. Mr G was due to 
repay his total loan in 24 months and he was paying £118.19 each month, including the 
interest, to repay what he borrowed for the PPI.
The Loan with the PPI was taken out in October 2003, then in March 2004 Mr G wanted to 
cancel the PPI, having made the monthly repayments to that date that included PPI costs in 
them. HSBCs process to cancel the PPI was to cancel the original loan agreement, remove 
the PPI costs in line with the terms and conditions, and set up a new loan without any active 
PPI policy. No new PPI policy was taken out with the replacement loan in 2004. 
When HSBC cancelled the PPI and refinanced the loan in March 2004, it removed from the 
loan amount Mr G still owed, some of the cost of the PPI as a rebate of the premium. But 
this was not a full, proportionate rebate. The terms and conditions of the loan indicated that 
on cancellation of the PPI an amount of the PPI premium would be rebated, but not the full 
amount that was still to be repaid. The records indicate that the rebated amount of the PPI 
was £1,511.78 plus and adjustment to the interest. This amount was removed from the loan 
amount outstanding, a new loan amount to be repaid was identified and a new loan set up.
But as the full amount of the PPI premium that had remained in the loan to be repaid was not 
refunded when Mr G took out his new loan, the amount he borrowed going forward still 
contained a small amount of the cost of the PPI policy taken out in 2003. So, in effect Mr G 
borrowed more than he needed in his loan in 2004 as he was still borrowing to pay for some 
of the PPI costs from the first loan. This is why the offer of compensation from HSBC refers 
to the amount covering the PPI in associated loans. This is not because new policies were 
taken out, but because some of the original PPI policy cost was still being repaid.
Looking at the figures, it seems that when Mr G cancelled the PPI in March 2004, £2,130.77 
of the PPI premium remined in the balance of the loan still to be paid. A rebate of £1,511.78 
plus and adjustment of the interest of £107.60, were then made to balance, to remove some 
of these costs of the PPI. But this still left some of the costs for the PPI carried forward into 
Mr Gs new loan. 
When working out the compensation HSBC has taken this into account and also worked out 
the extra interest paid on this carried forward amount as it was part of the new loan going 
forward. In total Mr G paid £511.39 for the PPI, towards the premium and interest on it, 
whilst it was part of the new loan going forward. On this amount HSBC has also worked out 
compensatory interest for any times Mr G was out of pocket.Mr G had also paid a total of £725.99 for the PPI premium and interest, in the monthly 
repayments he made whilst he was making the loan repayments before cancelling the 
policy. HSBC are refunding that as part of the compensation, plus paying 8% simple interest 
on this amount, to compensate Mr G for being out of pocket.
So in total HSBC is refunding £1,237.38 as the total costs Mr G actually paid for the PPI, 
taking into account what he paid as the first monthly payments, the rebate he received and 
the amount carried forward, with interest caused by that. In addition, HSBC has worked out 
that a total of £1,519.22 in compensatory interest is due on this for the times Mr G was out of 
pocket for the PPI costs.
Overall, I think what HSBC has worked out as the total costs of the PPI Mr G actually paid is 
fair. In addition, HSBC has worked out some compensatory interest, at the rate of 8% simple 
and again I think what has been calculated is fair.
HM Revenue and Customs require that basic rate income tax is taken from compensatory 
interest claimed, which here is £303.84.
So the total compensation offered to settle the complaint comes to £2,756.60 before tax. 
And I think this is fair compensation to put Mr G back in the position he would have been in if 
he had never taken out the PPI.
I hope some of this information will help reassure Mrs G that all issues she has raised have 
been taken into account. But the total cost of what was actually paid by Mr G and the 
relevant compensatory interest calculations are in line with what I would expect.
Therefore, taking account of all the evidence I have seen, I think what HSBC has worked out 
as the compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I am satisfied that the compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI that HSBC UK Bank Plc has offered to Mrs G on behalf of the Estate of Mr G to settle 
this complaint is fair. So, I am not upholding this complaint that any additional compensation 
is due connected to the mis-sale of the PPI with Mr Gs loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and the 
estate of Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman