DRN-2910407
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, didnt close his 
account when they should have done, and werent able to pay him compensation for this in 
the manner that they said they would.
What happened
Mr B had instructed Barclays to close his account. However, he later realised that the 
account was still open. Mr B contacted Barclays about this, who confirmed that Mr Bs 
account would be closed. However, once again, sometime later Mr B noticed that the 
account was still open. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Bs complaint. They acknowledged that they hadnt closed the account 
when they said that they would, and they apologised to Mr B and offered to pay £100 
compensation for the inconvenience that Mr B had incurred. 
Mr B accepted Barclays offer, but when he called the number given to him by Barclays to 
accept the £100 payment, the member of staff that Mr B spoke to wasnt able to pay the 
compensation and asked Mr B to call back another day - when the department Mr B needed 
to speak with would be open. Mr B wasnt happy about what had happened, so he referred 
his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But, while they appreciated that Mr B had 
been inconvenienced by having to call Barclays a second time, they didnt feel that this 
merited the payment of any additional compensation by Barclays. So, they didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In circumstances such as this  where a business has acknowledged that it made a mistake 
 what this service would expect would be that the business would apologise to its customer 
and take the corrective steps necessary to rectify the error, and if appropriate, make a 
further payment to the customer to compensate them for any distress or inconvenience they 
have may incurred.
Having reviewed all the information available to me, I think that Barclays have done that 
here. They acknowledged that they hadnt closed Mr Bs account when they should have 
done, and they apologised to Mr B and offered to pay Mr B £100 to compensate him for any 
inconvenience this matter had caused. This offer of compensation feels fair to me, and its 
notable that Mr B assented to this offer of compensation and contacted Barclays to accept it.
I can understand then how it must have been frustrating for Mr B, when he contacted 
Barclays to arrange receipt of the compensation that had been offered to him, to be told that 
the department he needed to speak with wasnt open on that day, and to be asked to call 
back on another day. And this must have been especially so, given that the letter Mr B 
received from Barclays hadnt indicated that Mr B should only have called during business 
working hours.
However, while I appreciate that Mr B was further inconvenienced by being asked to call a 
second time, I dont feel that this additional inconvenience is such that a further payment of 
compensation by Barclays is merited in this instance. And Im satisfied therefore that the 
actions already undertaken by Barclays here, including the offer of £100 compensation to Mr 
B, do represent a fair and reasonable outcome to this continuing complaint.
So, while I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mr B was wanting here, it follows 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this 
time  beyond that to which theyve already agreed. 
I hope that Mr B can understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman