DRN-3942407
The complaint
Mr C complains about the difficulty he experienced in accessing his savings account with
Nationwide Building Society and the level of customer service he received.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr C tried to log on to his savings account using online banking. A message
appeared asking him to call Nationwide to provide a mobile phone number. Mr C explained
he tried to call the number on the log in page, but he received an automated message
saying the phone lines were closed, despite the information on the website stating that the
phone lines were open from 8am to 8pm.
Mr C says he then tried to use the online chat facility as the website said this service was
available from 8am to 7.45pm every day. Unfortunately, Mr C wasnt able to use this service
as the chat button wasnt showing on his screen.
The following day, Mr C spoke to Nationwide and was informed that he couldnt log in as his
mobile phone number wasnt noted on his customer profile. Mr C says he queried it further
as hed provided his mobile phone number as part of the application process, but the
Nationwide representative wasnt able to answer his questions.
Unhappy with this, Mr C raised a complaint about the incorrect opening times on
Nationwides website and the chat facility being unavailable. He also wanted Nationwide to
explain why he was asked to call them to provide his mobile phone number again, when hed
provided it as part of his application.
Mr C also complained that Nationwide took longer than 56 days to investigate and respond
to his complaint. He was also unhappy that he was only given five days to reply to their 
correspondence. He says Nationwide failed to respond to his letter of 15 July 2022 and he
found that their emails had poor grammar and spelling errors.
Nationwide explained that they held a profile for Mr C prior to May 2022, which didnt have a
mobile phone number added to it. When Mr C applied for the savings account, the details he
provided matched the existing profile, so his new account was linked to it. And their system
doesnt automatically add any additional details to an existing profile. So, Mr Cs mobile
number could only be added manually.
They said that the issue with the chat function was due to the web browser used. They
explained Google Chrome fully supports this facility, and while it will still work on some other
browsers, its not to its full ability.
They apologised for the inconvenience caused by the incorrect opening hours on their
website and for not responding to Mr Cs complaint within the timescales set out. But they
didnt accept theyd done anything wrong in giving Mr C five days to reply to them.
Our investigator said Nationwide hadnt treated Mr C unfairly. He felt the apology Nationwide
gave for displaying the incorrect hours on their website and the time taken to respond to Mr
Cs complaint was fair and didnt ask them to do anything else. Mr C disagreed and asked
for an ombudsmans decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 16 January 2023, and I made the following findings:
Mr C provided his mobile phone number when he opened his savings account which
Nationwide havent disputed. So, I can understand why he wouldve been surprised 
to see the message on his screen asking him to call Nationwide to provide his mobile 
phone number. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr C to expect that Nationwide 
wouldve recorded the information he provided on their systems.
Nationwide have given an explanation for why Mr Cs mobile phone number wasnt 
added on their system. Mr C held accounts with Nationwide previously which means 
he already had a profile in place, but they didnt have a mobile phone number added 
on this profile prior to May 2022.
However, Mr C wouldnt reasonably have been aware of this, so I can understand his
frustration as hed provided Nationwide the information they were requesting from 
him again.
More broadly, Mr C is also complaining that Nationwide are disregarding information
provided by prospective customers in their application forms in favour of old and 
probably out of date information. Hes raised questions about where customers 
correspondence would be delivered if theyd changed their address between their 
new account application and the address supplied for an existing account.
I think Mr C has raised some fair questions, and Nationwide have offered him a 
reasonable explanation for this  their system would create a new profile if the 
personal details, such as name, date of birth and home address provided on the 
application were different to the information they held on an existing profile.
In any event, Mr C didnt experience issues with Nationwide sending him 
correspondence using any outdated contact information. So, his questions around 
how Nationwides system works more generally doesnt impact on the outcome of his 
individual complaint.
As an informal service, its not our role to review the systems or processes of banks 
and building societies. We also dont have the power to ask Nationwide to change or 
update how their systems work. This is the role of the financial services regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
Focusing specifically on Mr Cs complaint, as Ive explained above, I agree it was 
reasonable for him to expect that Nationwide would update their records with the 
information hed provided on his application, including his mobile phone number.
Mr C had to make two phone calls for this issue to be resolved causing him some
inconvenience. He has also explained that he was intending on making a bank 
transfer for a deposit on a vehicle, and he had to organise funds from another 
financial institution. I agree this wouldve caused him further unnecessary 
inconvenience.Nationwide already accepted that the online banking pop up message showed 
incorrect opening times. But they believe that Mr C wouldve known their correct 
opening times as a screenshot he sent them to demonstrate the online chat facility 
wasnt working, also shows the correct opening times.
While Mr C may have also seen the correct opening times on the website, he 
wouldnt have known which of the two opening times displayed was accurate until 
hed called Nationwide and heard an automated message letting him know that the 
phone lines were closed.
So, I think Mr C was also caused some frustration and annoyance by the website 
having inconsistent information on the opening times.
Mr C tried to use the online chat facility during its operating hours of 8am to 7.45pm, 
so I can understand his disappointment when he wasnt able to access this service 
due to the chat button not appearing on his screen.
Nationwide have explained that their chat facility was up and running and the only 
issue theyd be aware of was the functionality of different web browsers. They 
explained Google Chrome is the main web browser for their chat facility and whilst 
the chat function may work with other web browsers, there could be glitches or other 
issues due to not being fully supported.
Its not our role to determine the exact reason why the chat button didnt appear. 
Also, there could be a number of causes, including that either or neither party were at 
fault. I think Nationwide offered Mr C one possible explanation for why he may have 
experienced an issue.
But, I dont think this information was completely accurate as Nationwides website 
suggests that there are other supported operating systems and web browsers, apart 
from Google Chrome.
I understand Mr C was using Microsoft Edge, which is one of the supported browsers 
on Windows 10. So, its possible that something else may have caused the problem 
he experienced on the day.
I think Nationwide couldve done more to address this point, particularly when Mr C
challenged their explanation  including referring Mr C to their website which has 
information about their supported operating systems and browsers.
In any event, even if Nationwide were at fault as Mr C has suggested, this appears to 
be a one-off issue as Mr C has been able to use his web browser successfully prior 
to and after the day he had problems.
While I agree it wouldve been inconvenient and frustrating for Mr C, its not 
unexpected to experience some technical difficulties when using online services.
Nationwide have accepted and apologised for taking longer than the 56-day 
regulatory timescales to respond to Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate the delays of over 
two weeks wouldve been frustrating for Mr C.
Mr C says Nationwide only gave him five days to reply to an email about his 
complaint. I dont think this is an unreasonable timescale to respond to an email  if 
Mr C needed more time to reply as he was away at the time, he couldve simply let 
Nationwide know  which is exactly what he did.I understand Mr Cs disappointment that Nationwide didnt respond to his letter of 15 
July 2022. However, I can see Nationwide made it clear to him that they would add 
any further correspondence he sends to their file, but they wouldnt be responded to. 
Im satisfied Nationwide have let Mr C know what to expect from them going forward 
in relation to his complaint.
I agree the letters Nationwide sent to Mr C werent free from grammatical and 
typographical errors. Although I think Nationwide shouldve taken more care to avoid 
these, I dont think there were any significant grammar or typing errors. The points 
made were still clear and didnt alter the outcome being shared with Mr C.
Putting things right
All things considered, there were a number of issues which have had an impact on 
Mr C. Individually, these werent significant or more than the normal nuisances you 
might expect from everyday life.
While Mr Cs online banking access was resolved the following day, he still couldnt 
withdraw his funds when he wanted to. Although the issues Mr C experienced 
individually werent significant, having to face multiple problems when dealing with 
Nationwide would undoubtedly have compounded the inconvenience, frustration and 
annoyance he was caused. In particular, Nationwides failure to acknowledge the 
inconvenience and frustration he was caused despite providing his mobile phone 
number as part of his application.
Having thought about the impact on Mr C, I think a fair way to resolve this complaint 
is for Nationwide to apologise for the overall level of service provided and pay £100 
compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions. 
Mr C confirmed his general agreement with my decision. He asked me to clarify the 
reference to delays of over two weeks and 56-day regulatory timescale mentioned in my 
provisional decision.
He also remained concerned about Nationwides system not adding the mobile phone 
number supplied by a customer, to their existing profile when applying for a new account. He 
said it worried him that in his particular case, the profile Nationwide used was for an account 
hed closed several years prior to his new application. He said he understood that this wasnt 
within our remit and will be taking this concern to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
I responded to Mr C to confirm that under the complaint handling rules, businesses have 
eight weeks (56 days) to issue a final response letter. And the reference to the delay of over 
two weeks in my provisional decision, is to acknowledge that Nationwide delayed providing 
Mr C a final response letter by over two weeks of the expected eight weeks timescale. 
I also reiterated the explanation I gave in my provisional decision  its not our role to review 
Nationwides processes nor can we ask them to change it. I noted that hell be raising his 
concerns with the FCA. I explained to Mr C that in reaching my provisional decision, Id taken into account the impact caused to him by Nationwide failing to update their records 
with the mobile phone number he provided on his application form.
Mr C confirmed he didnt have any other points to raise. Nationwide didnt respond to my 
provisional decision within the deadline given.
Since there are no new points or comments from either party, there isnt anything else for me 
to consider. Im satisfied with the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and my 
thoughts on how the complaint should be resolved still remains the same.
In summary, Nationwide should:
Apologise for the overall level of service provided.
Pay £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should put things 
right as set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman