DRN-3518216
The complaint
Mrs and Mr N complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with their claim for a 
refund following the cancellation of their holiday due to a positive Covid-19 test.
What happened
Mrs and Mr N took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 27 July 2021 for a holiday 
which was due to take place from 29 July until 9 August 2021. The policy covered Mrs and 
Mr N and their 2 children for a holiday in Europe. They paid a total of £91.62 for the policy, 
which included cover for one medical condition and an extension of cover for European 
Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) Travel Advice.
Mrs and Mr N cancelled their holiday following a positive Covid-19 test result, which was 
reported during the evening of 27 July 2021. They contacted Great Lakes and asked it to 
refund the cost of their flights. But it declined to cover do so. So, Mrs and Mr N complained.
When Great Lakes responded to Mrs and Mr Ns concerns it didnt uphold their complaint as 
it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Mrs and Mr N had been awaiting the result 
of a Covid-19 test at the time they purchased their insurance policy. And it stated that they 
should have advised Great Lakes that a Covid-19 result was awaited and that they were 
aware of circumstances that could result in a claim. 
As Mrs and Mr N were dissatisfied with Great Lakes response to their complaint they 
referred it to our service. An investigator assessed this complaint and recommended 
upholding it. They didnt think Great Lakes had acted fairly or reasonably and told it to settle 
Mrs and Mr Ns claim and award 8% simple interest on the value of that claim from the date 
it was made until the date of settlement.
Mrs and Mr N agreed with our investigators view of their complaint. But Great Lakes didnt. 
So, Ive been asked to determine the fairest way of resolving matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to assess whether I think Great Lakes made a mistake, or treated Mrs and 
Mr N unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. So, Ive thought very carefully about 
what happened.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances
I can see Mrs and Mr N and Great Lakes have gone to some trouble to provide our service 
with some detailed points about this complaint. I want to assure them that Ive read 
everything theyve sent us. But I hope theyll understand if I dont address every comment 
theyve made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to this 
complaint.
The available evidence demonstrates that Mrs and Mr Ns flights were booked on 16 July 
2021. It isnt in dispute that they didnt take out travel insurance at the time they purchased 
their flights. This isnt unusual and I think Mrs and Mr N took out their travel insurance policy 
at an appropriate time prior to their intended travel date. 
I can see that Great Lakes relied on a particular section of Mrs and Mr Ns policy of 
insurance when declining their claim. This section stipulates that:
cancellation applies for booked trips taking place within the period of cover that you are 
forced to cancel because of one of the following, which are beyond your control, and of 
which you were unaware at the time you booked your trip or purchased the cover (whichever 
is the later).
In thinking about whether Great Lakes applied this section fairly, Ive given careful 
consideration to whether theres evidence to suggest that Mrs and Mr N were aware of any 
reason that theyd need to cancel their holiday at the time they purchased their holiday 
insurance policy.
The available evidence discloses that Mrs and Mr N contacted Great Lakes on 27 July 2021 
at about 2 pm to discuss a policy theyd obtained an online quote for earlier that day. 
Documentation provided by them shows that they submitted a Covid-19 swab for testing 
from their son on 27 July 2021 at just after 10:30 am. While their discussion with Great 
Lakes was after they submitted the swab for testing it was prior to the result being reported, 
which happened at just after 9 pm that day. I think this demonstrates that Mrs and Mr N 
intended to purchase travel insurance with Great Lakes at a time when they were unaware 
that any traveller was, or would be, Covid-19 positive.
When Mrs and Mr N purchased their policy on 27 July 2021 they were asked whether any 
travellers had any undisclosed medical conditions that required cover. In response to this 
question, Mrs and Mr N disclosed that their son suffered from a medical condition. They 
were asked whether any other conditions or symptoms needed to be declared to which they 
answered no. 
Great Lakes has stated that Mrs and Mr N ought to have been aware that the Covid-19 swab 
submitted for testing earlier on the date they purchased their insurance policy had a 50% 
chance of being reported positive. It further stated they ought to have been aware that this 
could have precluded their travel. But this argument presupposes that they were testing for 
Covid-19 because they thought one of their family members may have been suffering with 
this condition.
The evidence Ive seen satisfies me that Mrs and Mr N were intending to undertake travel 
within Europe at a time when there was a requirement to test all unvaccinated travellers over 
the age of 12 for Covid-19 prior to travel. The FCDO stated:
from 2 July [2021], thegovernment requires all arrivalsfrom the UK to present on entry a 
pre-travel declaration form and one of the following: a negative Covid-19 test; or proof of 
vaccination.
The Covid-19 vaccination was unavailable to children at the time of intended travel and, as 
Mrs and Mr Ns son was over the age of 12, they were required to provide a negative Covid-
19 test for him to gain entry to their holiday destination. This provides a plausible explanation 
as to why the test was undertaken. I accept that Mrs and Mr N were undertaking mandatory Covid-19 testing for their son in 
order to comply with the entry requirements that were in place at their holiday destination. 
Im satisfied that it was this requirement that prompted testing. 
Im not persuaded that Mrs and Mr N were expecting the swab they sent for testing to be 
returned with a positive result. They told Great Lakes and our service that none of the 
policyholders were demonstrating any symptoms of a Covid-19 infection prior to testing. I 
accept what Mrs and Mr N say about the absence of symptoms  there is no evidence 
available to disprove it.
The Covid-19 swab result from Mrs and Mr Ns son wasnt reported, or made known to them, 
until just after 9pm on 27 July 2021. At that time, they were informed their son had tested 
positive for Covid-19. Im satisfied that this meant he was unable to travel, which then led to 
the family being unable to undertake their holiday. 
In the overall circumstances, Im satisfied that, at the time Mrs and Mr N purchased their 
travel insurance policy with Great Lakes, they were unaware of the Covid-19 positive result 
and had no reason to believe the swab would be reported positive. So, Im not persuaded 
that this isnt a case whereby a policyholder has taken out insurance with the sole intention 
of making a claim under the policy knowing theyd be precluded from travel due to Covid-19 
reasons.
Mrs and Mr Ns policy provides cover for cancellation where a close relative, member of their 
household or travelling companion has a diagnosis of Covid-19 in the 14 days prior to the 
booked departure date. As Mrs and Mr Ns sons test result confirms a Covid-19 diagnosis 
thats within 14 days of the intended travel date, and they werent aware of this at the time 
they incepted their policy, Im satisfied the claim is covered under the policy terms. I am 
therefore going to uphold this complaint and will direct Great Lakes to resolve this complaint 
in the manner set out below.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, Im directing Great Lakes to settle Mrs and Mr Ns claim and to 
award 8% simple interest on the value of that claim from the date it was made until the date 
of settlement, which is the recommendation our investigator made when assessing this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to: 
Settle Mrs and Mr Ns claim;
pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on this balance from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement*. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Great Lakes Insurance SE to take off tax from this 
interest. Great Lakes Insurance SE must give Mrs and Mr N a certificate showing how much 
tax its taken off it they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman