DRN-3736279
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) started charging them for a 
Platinum account when they had always been able to have the account for free - providing 
they kept the balance of the account above a certain amount.
Mr and Mrs W also say that they feel the account, which was sold at some point between 
February 2001 and September 2001, was mis-sold as they were not told that the bank could 
make changes to the account. They also say that Lloyd failed to check whether the account 
and the associated benefits were suitable for them.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by choosing to remove the fee-waiver feature from the account. He 
also didnt think that the account had been mis-sold either.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mis-sale complaint
Mr and Mrs W say that one of the reasons why they believe the account was mis-sold was 
because Lloyds failed to check if the benefits were suitable for them. 
However, Mr and Mrs W previously said that the reason why they agreed to the account was 
to obtain the benefits of the travel insurance, AA cover etc.. So going on Mr and Mrs Ws 
testimony, it appears that they were aware of the benefits of the account and were aware a 
monthly fee applied to the account, unless the balance was kept above a certain amount.
Therefore, Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws argument that Lloyds sold them an 
unsuitable product (or had failed to check if it was) given that they say they only agreed to it 
because they wanted the benefits that the account provided and they had the potential to get 
these benefits without having to pay a monthly fee if they maintained a certain balance. 
I note that Mr and Mrs W say that they didnt need mobile phone insurance and say Lloyds 
didnt check this with them during the sale. But the account didnt provide mobile phone 
insurance when it was sold to them  which explains why Lloyds didnt check if they had 
existing mobile phone insurance in place at the time. 
Another reason why Mr and Mrs W say that the account was mis-sold is because they say 
they werent informed that the benefits could be withdrawn on a whim. Unfortunately, 
because of how long ago the sale took place there is now very limited evidence that is 
available about what was said. So I accept its possible that this may not have been made 
clear.
However, I think its likely they still wouldve agreed to the account had they been made 
aware that the benefits could potentially change at some point in the future. I say this given 
that they were able to have all of the account benefits without paying the monthly fee  so 
were clearly happy to take advantage of the benefits as they stood at the time.
Therefore, whilst I cant be sure that Lloyds provided them with all of the information it 
shouldve, I still think they wouldve agreed to the Platinum account as it was then, had they 
been given more information about it. Because of this, I dont think that the account was mis-
sold.
Fee-waiver removal
Mr and Mrs W say that they werent told that benefits, such as the fee-waiver, could be 
removed. Therefore, they say that Lloyds should not be able to remove the fee-waiver 
without some form of compensation.
Unfortunately, neither Mr and Mrs W, nor Lloyds, are able to provide a copy of the Platinum 
account terms and conditions from the time that they took out the account. Therefore, I cant 
say with any certainty what exactly the terms and conditions of the account said. 
However, its not the case that the absence of evidence is evidence of absence  as Mr and 
Mrs W suggest. Or put another way, just because neither party can provide a copy of the 
terms and conditions from when the account was sold in 2001, doesnt mean that a variation 
clause didnt exist in those terms and conditions. 
In such cases, I need to decide what I think was most likely the case, based on everything 
that is available. And on balance, I think its more likely than not that they did include some 
form of variation clause  which essentially allowed Lloyds to amend the terms of the 
account and therefore the benefits of the account (including the fee-waiver) as and when it 
deemed necessary.
The reason why I say this is because firstly, the account didnt operate like a typical contract 
i.e. an agreement to provide services for a set period of time or until a specific date in the 
future. Instead, it operated on a monthly rolling basis, whereby Mr and Mrs W were able to 
continue to have the account and benefits up until either they downgraded or closed the 
account, or until Lloyds chose to withdraw or close the account  whichever came first. 
Therefore, I think it likely the account terms and conditions wouldve contained a provision of 
some sort allowing Lloyds to amend the account cost and benefits over time. Otherwise the 
alternative would be, Lloyds would either have to get every account holders permission (as 
Mr and Mrs W suggest) before it could make any change to the account. Or failing that, 
Lloyds wouldve had to withdraw every Platinum account in operation, and then offer all 
affected accountholders the option to agree to a slightly different account - each and every 
time Lloyds wanted to make any type of change to the account.
I also think its likely to be the case that the Platinum account included a variation clause 
when it was sold to Mr and Mrs W, because I can see that more recent copies of the account 
terms and conditions did include such terms. I also understand that Lloyds general banking 
terms and conditions  which Mr and Mrs W wouldve needed to agree to, to open an 
account with Lloyds - also contained similar variation clauses  for the same reasons.
Finally, I can see that Lloyds has made many changes to the account over the years that Mr 
and Mrs W held it. This included how much the account cost, how much they needed to 
keep in the account to avoid paying the monthly fee, as well as various changes made to the 
account benefits. And despite these changes, Mr and Mrs W chose to keep the account, 
presumably because they were able to keep the account without having to pay for it. So, it seems to be the case that Mr and Mrs W were aware (and have been for many years) 
that Lloyds is able to change the account cost and features, but are (understandably) 
unhappy with the decision to withdraw the fee-waive feature specifically. However, I cant 
say that Lloyds decision to remove this feature of the account was unfair or unreasonable, 
because ultimately, it is up to Lloyds to decide what products and features it offers its 
customers.
What Lloyds was required to do however was to give Mr and Mrs W notice of the changes 
being made to the account. This was to ensure Mr and Mrs W were aware of what changes 
were taking place and also to give them time to consider their options. As far as I can see 
Lloyds did this. And I can see in the final response letter that Lloyds also paid Mr and Mrs W 
£75 to give them more time to consider whether they wanted to keep the Platinum account, 
now that theyd have to pay for it. In the circumstances, this seems fair to me.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman