DRN-4522182
The complaint
Mr O complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) restricted, and then closed his business 
accounts without explanation and withheld his funds. Mr O also complains that HSBC used 
the funds in his accounts to set-off against his Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
Mr O says HSBCs actions have cost him loss of business, financial difficulty, inconvenience 
and distress.
What happened
Following an internal review, HSBC restricted Mr Os accounts in June 2022. On 
12 July 2022, HSBC told Mr O it was closing his business accounts and would do so in two 
months time. Mr O was not given access to his accounts during this time.
Unhappy with HSBCs actions, Mr O complained. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary it said Mr O will be unable to make any transactions whilst the account remains 
under review, and its complying with UK statutory obligations.
Mr O referred his complaint to this service.
In October 2022, HSBC sent Mr O a letter in which it explained that after a review it was 
cancelling his Business BBL scheme which was taken out in May 2020. HSBC said that it 
was relying on clause 12 of the agreement in doing so. HSBC used Mr Os withheld 
business account funds amounting to around £12,000 to set-off against the BBL.
One of our Investigators then looked into Mr Os complaint. They recommended the 
complaint isnt upheld. In summary, they made the following findings:
- HSBC blocked, reviewed, and withheld Mr Os funds in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. And HSBC isnt obliged to give a reason for its actions
- HSBC were allowed to set-off Mr Os funds against the BBL he owed it. This is in 
accordance with section 6 of its business account terms and conditions
- HSBC should have done more in the way of informing Mr O that it was exercising its 
right of set-off in this way, and with at least 14 days notice. But this lack of action 
didnt significantly impact Mr O, so HSBC doesnt need to pay any compensation
Mr O didnt agree with what our Investigator said. He then appointed professional 
representatives, but to keep things simple Ill mainly refer to Mr O in the rest of my decision. 
Mr O has made several points in response. Some of the key ones are:
- Mr O is a sole trader and HSBCs actions have crippled his business as he wasnt 
able to make regular payments leading to him losing his commercial vehicle through 
repossession. This meant he couldnt carry on with his normal business, and hes lost 
significant business income
- This has caused loss of reputation and mistrust with his customers. And he has fallen 
behind with his rent
- Mr O has lost over five months of income at £5,000 a month. Given the distress hes 
also suffered, HSBC should altogether pay him £54,000 compensation
In response, our Investigator said HSBCs actions of blocking Mr O's account, holding his 
funds, and setting- off his funds from his business account to pay off his bounce back loan, 
were all taken fairly. So because of this they cant consider any impact HSBCs actions had 
on Mr O.
As Mr O didnt agree, his complaint was passed to me to decide. I then sent both parties my 
provisional decision and set a deadline for them to send me further comments and evidence. 
For ease of reference, here is what I said I was planning on deciding:
Provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on deciding to not uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Account restrictions and closure
Banks in the UK, like HSBC, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
HSBC have provided me with an explanation, and evidence, of why it reviewed and 
restricted Mr Os business accounts. Having carefully reviewed this, Im satisfied it acted in 
line with the legal and regulatory obligations it must follow.
I can understand why Mr O would like an explanation. But Im not aware of any obligation 
under which HSBC must do so. Id also add that our rules allow us to receive evidence in 
confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for 
example, if it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of 
the information HSBC has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
HSBC is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before HSBC closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the business accounts, which HSBC and Mr O had to comply 
with, say that it could close the account by giving him at least two months notice. And in 
certain circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
HSBC gave Mr O two months notice of its decision to close his business accounts. Broadly 
speaking, when a bank does this, its customer is given access to the account until the 
account is closed. But Mr Os account remained restricted until they were closed. Because of 
this Im satisfied I must treat HSBCs closure of the accounts as immediate.
I note Mr O says hes mainly complaining about the blocks, his funds being withheld, and 
later HSBC setting-off his funds against his BBL. But given how intrinsically the closure is 
linked to the other events, Im persuaded I need to make a finding on whether HSBC acted 
fairly here, and in line with its terms of account.Having carefully reviewed HSBCs reasons and the evidence its given me, and the concerns 
it had, Im persuaded on balance, that it had reason and evidence enough to close Mr Os 
accounts in the way it did. Though I wont be explaining why in detail here - for the reasons 
Ive already given above  I do think this was a very finely balanced point when taken in 
isolation.
Right of set-off and BBL
HSBC informed Mr O his account would close in September 2022. But his funds werent 
used for the right of set-off until October 2022. Its possible HSBC couldve acted quicker 
and may therefore have caused undue delay. But for me to look into this more closely, Id 
need to determine whether HSBC have acted fairly and in line with its terms of account when 
exercising the right of set-off.
If it did, then any delay hasnt caused Mr O any detriment given the funds wouldnt have 
been released to him. So he wouldnt have been deprived of them.
The terms and conditions of Mr Os business accounts say:
If you have money in one of your accounts, we may use it to reduce or repay amounts owed 
to us which are due for payment on other accounts. This is our right of set-off. Amounts 
owed to us include amounts due under a loan, a credit or charge card, a mortgage or an 
overdraft
The BBL agreement, which Mr O signed, also says the following:
If you have money in one of your accounts (except for trust, client or joint accounts), we 
may set it off against any amount you owe us which is due for payment on other accounts 
(including money you owe on a joint account) so it reduces or repays the amount you owe 
us. We'll only do this with accounts in your name and after we have checked that you have 
enough left in your accounts to cover essential living costs
Section 14, titled Sharing Information of that agreement says:
If we make a reasonable request for information, you must give it to us as soon as possible. 
If you dont, or we suspect fraudulent or criminal activity of any kind:
(a) we might try to obtain it from another source; and/or
(b) we can terminate the Facility, demand repayment of the Loan, and/or suspend 
access to services
I need to consider if HSBC applied its terms fairly - which Ive referenced above  before 
exercising the right of set-off.
The BBL application form Mr O completed shows it was applied for in a dissolved limited 
businesses name which I note is similar to Mr Os sole trading name. That company was 
dissolved some time before the application, and Mr O wasnt listed as a director on the 
Companies House website. But its possible this was an error as the agreement that followed 
this, which Mr O signed, was in his personal name.
The application form says:
You can apply for a loan which is up to 25% of your turnover in calendar year 2019, from a 
minimum of £2,000, up to a maximum of £50,000. If your business was established after 1 January 2019, you should apply the 25% limit to your estimated annual turnover from the 
date you started your business
Mr O said his turnover was £120,000 and he wanted to borrow £25,000. Mr O signed the 
declaration on 13 May 2020, which amongst other things said he confirmed the information 
he had provided in the application is complete and accurate.
HSBC have also provided me with a copy of Mr Os BBL agreement, which he signed on 
15 May 2020. In section 4, tiled Your confirmations to us, it says:
You make the following representations and warranties to us on: (i) the date that you accept 
this Agreement; (ii) the date on which you make a drawdown; and (iii) each date you make a 
payment of capital and/or interest to us:
(d) all declarations made by you in your application form for this Loan are true, complete 
and accurate and have not become misleading or incorrect
Section 6, titled Events of default set-out the following:
(a) cancel all or part of the Facility and we will have no further obligations to you;
(b) demand immediate repayment of all amounts due to us under the Facility; and/or
(c) declare that all or any part of the Loan is repayable on demand..
An Event of Default will occur if.(b) any of the representations and warranties you make 
to us under this Agreement is or becomes materially misleading or incorrect
Mr O has provided his HMRC tax submissions from April 2019 until April 2020. He has also 
given me the tax returns made to the HMRC for the next two accounting periods. For the 
2019 to 2020 returns his turnover for his business is just slightly less than £29,000.
This is significantly adrift of the £120,000 that was stated in his BBL application form. So, 
given what Ive seen Im persuaded this representation is most likely misleading and/or 
incorrect. Mr Os turnover for the next two accounting period from 2020 to 2021, and 2021 to 
2022, is also no more than £29,000.
Mr O has said he had been trading for quite some time  HSBC say his business was 
incorporated in 2015. So I dont think the turnover he stated in the application is or could be 
an estimate.
This amounts to an Event of Default under the declarations Mr O signed. And in that event 
HSBC are permitted to demand immediate repayment of the BBL loan.
So, in conclusion and after weighing everything up, Im satisfied HSBC did nothing wrong 
when it terminated Mr Os BBL and used the funds in his business account to set-off against 
what he owed. That means any delay HSBC may have caused in making those funds 
available for potential release to Mr O would not have caused Mr O detriment for me to then 
consider any compensation.
Compensation
Mr O says HSBCs actions have led to him suffering significant loss of business and 
reputation. He also says the matter has caused him substantive distress and inconvenience. 
Mr Os representative says to put things right, HSBC should pay him around £54,000.Id like to assure Mr O that I dont underestimate HSBCs actions wouldve caused him 
significant difficulty in the way he describes. But having looked at whats happened in this 
particular case, I can see no basis on which I might make an award against HSBC given that 
I dont think its done anything wrong here by restricting, closing and using funds in his 
accounts to set-off against his BBL.
So Im not going to ask HSBC to compensate Mr O for any loss of income, reputation, 
inconvenience and distress its actions may have caused
Neither HSBC or Mr O and his representative have responded to my provisional decision  
and the deadline for doing so has now passed. So it follows that I must now decide this 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons in my provisional decision  as above  I have decided 
to not uphold this complaint. 
In short, Im satisfied HSBC hasnt done anything wrong in restricting, closing and using 
funds in Mr Os business accounts to set-off against his BBL. And, because of this I find no 
basis to award any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman