DRN-4089401
The complaint
Mr C complains that Starling Bank Limited didnt do enough to protect him from the loss of 
£8,600 to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr C has explained that in March 2022 he made two payments totalling £8,600 from his 
Starling account, which hes subsequently realised have ultimately been lost to scammers.
Mr C got in touch with Starling to report hed been scammed. Starling didnt reimburse his 
lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Mr C referred his complaint about Starling to our service. As 
our Investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made detailed submissions. Ive read and considered everything hes sent in, but I 
wont be responding in similar detail. If I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, 
it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to 
reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy. It reflects the 
informal nature of our service. 
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as our Investigator. 
Ill explain why. 
Im sorry if Mr C lost money to scammers but this doesnt automatically entitle him to a 
refund from Starling. It would only be fair for me to tell Starling to reimburse Mr C if I thought 
it reasonably ought to have prevented the payments or it unreasonably hindered recovery of 
the funds.
Prevention
Im satisfied Mr C authorised the relevant payments. Starling would generally be expected to 
process payments a customer authorises it to make. And under the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mr C is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance, in circumstances where he authorised the payments. That said, as 
a matter of good industry practice Starling should have taken proactive steps to identify and 
help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  
that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are many payments made 
by customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to expect a bank to stop and 
check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying 
payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate 
payments. 
In this case, Starling did initially block Mr Cs payments. And it spoke to Mr C on the 
telephone before then letting them through. Ive listened to the relevant recordings of Mr Cs 
conversations with Starling. In these they discussed the payments before they were allowed 
through. Starling explained it was seeing many scams related to cryptocurrency, and that it 
was virtually impossible to recover the funds if something went wrong, so it was checking 
upfront everything was okay. It asked Mr C questions around this, with the intention of 
disturbing or unearthing a potential fraud or scam. 
Unfortunately, at this time, Mr C wasnt open with Starling around the context of his 
payments. Hes since explained that hed been looking online to do some trading and hed 
entered his details on a website to obtain further information  and that hed then received a 
call from the scammers purporting to offer a legitimate investment platform he could use, 
which hed decided to go ahead with. 
On the calls with Starling though, before the payments were sent, Starling asked Mr C if hed 
been contacted by anyone to discuss or otherwise encourage him to make crypto 
investments, or whether he was on the phone with anyone at the time. Mr C answered no to 
these questions. He said the call hed been on when making one of the payments was 
unrelated. And that he appreciated the purpose of Starlings calls was to check everything 
was genuine. But hed made payments to crypto exchanges before he banked with Starling; 
he, and only he, had access to his crypto account; he was making the payments off his own 
back; and he also had other investments. 
In my view, Starlings intervention was proportionate and reasonable. It made Mr C aware of 
the risk of fraud and scams around payments like this. Given Mr Cs answers and 
explanations on those calls, I can see why Starling would have been reassured that Mr C 
seemed to know what he was doing, and why it then allowed the payments through, as per 
Mr Cs instructions and requests. I think Starling acted fairly and reasonably. And Im 
satisfied it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to say Starling unreasonably missed an 
opportunity to prevent the payments. 
Recovery
Mr C didnt instruct Starling to send the payments directly to the scammers but instead to a 
legitimate crypto account in his own name. Thats what Starling did. I dont think it was ever 
likely that Starling would be able to facilitate recovery of the payments after they were moved 
from his crypto account to the scammers. So I dont think I can hold Starling responsible for 
Mr C being unable to recover his funds. 
I realise this means Mr C is out of pocket. And Im sorry if he lost this money. But I cant 
reasonably ask Starling to reimburse him in circumstances where I dont think it ought 
reasonably to have prevented the payments or been able to recover them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman