DRN-4385036
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc gave him incorrect information about his bank 
account balance and pending transactions. 
What happened
Mr L called Santander about a payment hed made to an online retailer using his current 
account. He wanted to know if the payment had cleared and what his remaining balance 
was.
The agent from Santander wasnt able to locate the transaction Mr L was calling about and 
so therefore couldnt give Mr L an accurate account balance. This caused Mr L to worry, so 
he complained.
Santander looked into Mr Ls concerns and agreed that the agent shouldve been able to 
locate the transaction and confirm the balance on the account. To recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused it agreed to pay Mr L £30.
Mr L remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He thought that Santander 
should pay him more compensation. One of our investigators looked into the matter and 
agreed that £30 was reflective of the distress and inconvenience caused. He also explained 
to Mr L that we cant consider hypothetical situations such as what mightve happened if hed 
done something as a result of being given incorrect information.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ive detailed these below:
Santander has agreed that during the telephone call the agent shouldve been able to 
locate the transaction Mr L was asking about and confirm whether it had cleared or 
not. This wouldve enabled Mr L to have worked out his current balance. 
It has credited £30 to Mr Ls account for the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
This is in line with our usual awards and reflects the worry caused to Mr L.
I understand Mr L has said that the mis-information given by the agent couldve 
caused him to go into his unauthorised overdraft  but it didnt. So that means I cant 
ask the business to pay compensation for something that didnt happen.
Im satisfied that Santander has done what I wouldve expected in this instance  
which is to pay £30 to Mr L for the worry and confusion it caused him. It doesnt need 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman