DRN-3832184
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy hes been charged an early termination charge and for excess mileage when 
he terminated his hire agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading 
as Volkswagen Finance.
What happened
In April 2016, Mr V was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with Volkswagen. 
He paid an advance rental of £133.82 and the agreement was for 36 months; with monthly 
payments of £133.82. If the agreement ran its full term, Mr V was due to pay a total of 
£4,817.52 in rental payments.
The agreement stated a maximum total allowable mileage of 30,000 miles (10,000 miles a 
year). It also stated that Mr V would be charged 3.6 pence (excluding VAT) a mile for every 
mile that exceeded this amount.
In December 2018, Mr V asked Volkswagen if he could end the agreement early. They 
agreed and charged an early termination charge of £294.41 and an excess mileage fee of 
£633.14.
Mr V complained to Volkswagen about the lack of contact he had from the agent who 
collected the car. But Volkswagen didnt uphold this complaint and said the agent had tried 
to contact him by phone, but Mr V hadnt let them know hed changed his number.
Mr V wasnt happy with Volkswagens response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation. In bringing the complaint to us, he also said he was unhappy with the amount 
hed been charged to terminate the agreement.
Our investigator didnt think the collection agent had done anything wrong as they were 
provided with the most up to date contact details Volkswagen had on file. And he didnt think 
Volkswagen had acted unfairly by not providing the collections agent with information they 
themselves didnt have.
However, the investigator explained why he thought Volkswagen were able to charge an 
early termination charge and a charge for pro-rated excess mileage on termination. He also 
explained, and provided calculations for, why he thought the charge for terminating the 
agreement wasnt fair and reasonable, as Volkswagen received more than they wouldve if 
the agreement had run its full term. 
Given all of this, he thought Volkswagen should reduce the outstanding balance by £424.25.
Mr V accepted the investigators view, but Volkswagen didnt respond. As such, this matter 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint, Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr V was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means we can look into complaints about it.
However, before I address Mr Vs complaints, I think it would be useful to address the 
charges themselves. And, in doing so, Ive considered the following:
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
Section 101 of the CCA refers to a consumers right to terminate a hire agreement by giving 
notice. It states:
Right to terminate hire agreement:
(1) The hirer under a regulated consumer hire agreement is entitled to terminate the 
agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or authorised to receive the sums 
payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability 
under the agreement which has accrued before the termination ...
(7) This section does not apply to
(a) any agreement which provides for the making by the hirer of payments 
which in total (and without breach of the agreement) exceed £1,500 in any 
year
Section 132 of the CCA enables the court to grant relief to a hirer where the owner has 
recovered possession of the goods otherwise than by action. It states:
Financial relief for hirer:
(1) Where the owner under a regulated consumer hire agreement recovers 
possession of goods to which the agreement relates otherwise than by action, the 
hirer may apply to the court for an order that
(a) the whole or part of any sum paid by the hirer to the owner in respect of 
the goods shall be repaid, and
(b) the obligation to pay the whole or part of any sum owed by the hirer to the 
owner in respect of the goods shall cease, and if it appears to the court just to 
do so, having regard to the extent of the enjoyment of the goods by the hirer, 
the court shall grant the application in full or in part.
(2) Where in proceedings relating to a regulated consumer hire agreement the court 
makes an order for the delivery to the owner of goods to which the agreement relates 
the court may include in the order the like provision as may be made in an order 
under subsection (1).
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)
The CRA sets out a schedule of non-exhaustive examples which might be considered to be 
unfair. The effect of this section is that terms used in contracts and notices will only be 
binding upon the consumer if they are fair. It defines unfair terms as those which put the 
consumer at a disadvantage, by limiting the consumers rights or disproportionately 
increasing their obligations as compared to the traders rights and obligations.Part 2: Unfair Terms. What are the general rules about fairness of contract 
terms and notices?
62. (1) An unfair term of a consumer contract is not binding on the consumer .
(4) A term is unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant 
imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations under the contract to the detriment of 
the consumer.
The CRA provides guidance on the expected clarity of wording within a contract, and the 
potential impact that any ambiguity within the contract would have:
68: Requirement for transparency
(1) A trader must ensure that a written term of a consumer contract, or a consumer 
notice in writing, is transparent 
(4) A term is unfair if, contrary to the requirements of good faith, it causes a 
significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations under the contract to the 
detriment of the consumer.
69: Contract terms that may have different meanings
(1) If a term in a consumer contract, or a consumer notice, could have different 
meanings, the meaning that is most favourable to the consumer is to prevail.
The CRA then goes on to list examples of terms that might be considered unfair:
Schedule 2: Consumer contract terms which may be regarded as unfair.
Part 1 list of terms 
(4) A term which has the object or effect of permitting the trader to retain sums paid 
by the consumer where the consumer decides not to conclude or perform the 
contract, without providing for the consumer to receive compensation of an 
equivalent amount from the trader where the trader is the party cancelling the 
contract.
(5) A term which has the object or effect of requiring that, where the consumer 
decides not to conclude or perform the contract, the consumer must pay the trader a 
disproportionately high sum in compensation or for services which have not been 
supplied.
(6) A term which has the object or effect of requiring a consumer who fails to fulfil his 
obligations under the contract to pay a disproportionately high sum in compensation.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
The FCA Principles for Businesses (PRIN) also apply and are of relevance to this complaint. 
PRIN 6 says A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
The Hire Agreement
The hire agreement sets out Mr Vs contractual obligations. Regarding early termination, the 
agreement states:
8.1 When the Hiring Period ends or we terminate the hiring (or accept your 
repudiation of this Agreement) you must return the Vehicle to us immediately at such 
address as we may reasonably require at your own expense together with everything 
supplied with the vehicle (including the servicing book) and the registration document 
and any MOT certificates. If you do not return the Vehicle we may repossess it and 
recover from you any expenses we incur.8.2 If we terminate the hiring or accept your repudiation of this Agreement you must 
pay us:
All unpaid rentals and any unpaid maintenance charges and other payments 
due (which shall include interest where applicable) plus
As compensation or agreed damages on our acceptance of your repudiation 
or as a debt on our termination the total amount of rentals payable during the 
Hiring Period (excluding VAT) less the amount of rentals paid or which have 
become due (excluding VAT) less also an amount (if any) equal to a rebate of 
rentals calculated at the rate of 4% per annum on the rentals (excluding VAT) 
which have not become due; plus
All our expenses of recovering or trying to recover the Vehicle repairing or 
storing it and tracing you (plus VAT) plus
An administration charge of up to £100 (including VAT) where this is 
reasonably required to meet our processing costs.
8.3 If we terminate the hiring or accept your repudiation of this Agreement we will 
deduct from any sum you owe us (to reflect early settlement) an amount calculated 
by us to give credit for any difference in value of the vehicle resulting from its return 
to us earlier than anticipated at the outset of this Agreement.
8.4 If we terminate the hiring of this Agreement, or accept your repudiation of this 
Agreement, any refunded road fund license relating to the Vehicle will belong to us 
and we can collect the refund.
Regarding excess mileage the agreement states:
10.1 You must make sure that the Vehicle does not cover more than:
10.1.1 the Maximum Annual Mileage in each succeeding period of 12 months 
starting from the making of this agreement and/or
10.1.2 the Maximum Total Mileage
10.2 When we ask, you must pay us the Excess Mileage Charge  (plus VAT) for 
each mile covered by the Vehicle in excess of the Maximum Annual Mileage or the 
Maximum Total Mileage.
10.3 If you have paid Excess Mileage Charges in relation to the Maximum Annual 
Mileage we will deduct this amount from any Excess Mileage Charge we ask you pay 
in relation to the Maximum Total Mileage.
10.4 If the mileometer stops working you must have it repaired. You must tell us the 
date when it stopped working, the recorded mileage at that date and the date when it 
was repaired. We will calculate an average mileage for the period during which the 
mileometer was not working based upon the recorded mileage.
10.5 If this Agreement terminates early, we will reduce the Maximum Total Mileage in 
the proportion which the actual period of hire originally agreed. Any Excess Mileage 
Charge will be calculated using the reduced Maximum Total Mileage.
10.6 Where the Vehicle is a used vehicle, we will take into account the given 
milometer reading at the start of this Agreement, in assessing any Excess Mileage 
Charges payable.10.7 We will add to the milage of the Vehicle the mileage covered by any substitute 
or replacement vehicle while in your possession and control.
The first point I need to consider is whether these charges are legally enforceable on early 
termination. Unlike a hire purchase agreement, the hire agreement Mr V entered into doesnt 
have the same rights in legislation to terminate an agreement early. And, while section 101 
of the CCA gives consumers the right to terminate a hire agreement, this doesnt apply to 
agreements where the hirer is required to make payments exceeding £1,500 a year. Which 
Mr V was. So, Im satisfied that section 101 of the CCA doesnt apply.
So, as the charges, on the face of it, arent unenforceable, Ive also considered if what Mr V 
is being asked to pay is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that both parties agreed to terminate the hire 
agreement early. And, as a result, Volkswagen charged both an early termination charge 
and a charge for exceeding the total allowable mileage (calculated based on a pro-rated 
allowable mileage for the length the agreement was in force).
Clause 8 of the hire agreement only provides for an early termination charge based on the 
provisions set out in that clause. However, this clause doesnt include the circumstances 
applicable here  where early termination was mutually agreed between the parties. So, its 
not clear whether clause 8 actually applies. And the way Volkswagen have calculated the 
early termination charge doesnt appear to bear any relation to the charges set out in either 
8.2 or 8.3  Mr V appears to have been charged 55% of all future rental payments. 
Volkswagen have explained this calculation was based on the expected value from the 
agreement, and the value of the car upon termination.
Whats more, the agreement doesnt appear to clearly or fairly set out a way of calculating 
Mr Vs liability when the agreement is terminated early by mutual consent. While the CCA 
doesnt give Mr V the right to terminate the agreement early, 8.2 seems to do so. But this is 
worded in such a way, by reference to repudiating the contract which Volkswagen can 
accept or not, that its meaning isnt clear to the average consumer
In addition, 8.3 indicates that the value of the car, when its returned early, is accounted for. 
But this isnt explicitly set out, nor are there any references to any objective criteria for 
calculating values, such as publicly available reference tools. And, while clause 10 allows for 
an excess mileage charge to be applied, the hire agreement isnt clear as to what basis fair 
compensation will be calculated when both an early termination and an excess mileage 
charge are applied.
Given the above; and given that early termination of an agreement is a relatively common 
occurrence, I consider that the drafting of the agreement falls short of the requirement for 
plain, intelligible language, as laid out in the CRA.
Taking everything into consideration, I think its fair to presume that Volkswagen are 
charging both the early termination charge and excess mileage charge to compensate 
themselves for both Mr V not paying all the originally agreed contractual payments and for 
any devaluation of the car caused by the expected mileage (the total allowable mileage 
specified in the hire agreement) being exceeded. But the fact that the car potentially has a 
different (higher) value on early termination, as opposed to the value at the end of the hire 
agreement, also needs to be considered.
As Ive said, the hire agreement doesnt provide a transparent and fair way of calculating this 
compensation, and so ensuring that Volkswagen arent overcompensated to the extent that it wouldnt be fair and proportionate to their actual loss. So, Im satisfied that PRIN 6 should be 
applied to these circumstances. Which would also involve the need for Volkswagen to be 
both clear and transparent about what theyre charging; and not charging more than its fair 
and reasonable to do so.
In his view on Mr Vs complaint, the investigator looked at the difference between the 
position Volkswagen would be in upon early termination compared to the position theyd be 
in had the agreement run its full term (and the car having done no more than the total 
allowable mileage). In doing so, the investigator also considered the value of the car at both 
stages, with valuations taken using publicly available reference tools - the motor trade 
guides. Using these guides is in line with standard practice for the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, so I dont think the investigator acted unfairly when doing so. Whats more, neither 
party has provided any evidence to show that these valuations were incorrect.
As such, I see no reason why the investigators calculations shouldnt be relied upon.
When Mr V returned the car, there was around four months left on the agreement, and had 
the agreement continued to its natural end, Mr V wouldve paid an additional £535.28. As it 
was, he paid an early termination charge of £294.41, and a pro-rated excess mileage charge 
of £663.14.
So, had the agreement run its full term, Volkswagen wouldve received £453.30 in payments 
from Mr V, and the car wouldve been valued at £4,890 (assuming the total allowable 
mileage hadnt been exceeded  if it had, then any reduction in this value due to mileage 
would be offset by any excess mileage charge). So, Volkswagen would be receiving goods 
and payments to the value of £5,343.30.
However, as the agreement was terminated early, Mr V paid a total of £927.55 in charges, 
and the car was valued at £4,840  just £50 less than Volkswagen wouldve likely achieved 
had the agreement run its full term, and the mileage allowance not been exceeded. So, 
Volkswagen received goods and payments to the value of £5,767.55. As such, charging 
what they did on early termination, Volkswagen received £424.25 more than they otherwise 
wouldve done if the agreement had run its full course.
Ive not seen anything to show me that Mr V was made aware that Volkswagen were 
benefitting from terminating the agreement early, rather than letting it run its full course, and I 
dont think its likely he wouldve been otherwise aware of this. And, if he had been aware, I 
dont think its likely he wouldve terminated the agreement early, especially given the short 
period left on the term.
Having considered section 132 of the CCA, and the significant amount by which Volkswagen 
benefitted from the agreement ending how it did, I think its likely that a court would consider 
it reasonable to grant Mr V some relief  while there appears to be a contractual basis for an 
excess mileage charge, when combined with the early termination fee its resulted in a 
situation where Volkswagen have been overcompensated.
So, and whether or not a court would grant Mr V any relief under the CCA, Im satisfied that 
Volkswagen didnt comply with PRIN 6 by requiring Mr V to pay a disproportionate charge. 
As such, Im satisfied that Volkswagen need to take action to remedy the situation.
Collection of the car
Mr V is unhappy that the car wasnt collected quickly after hed instructed Volkswagen that 
he wanted to terminate the agreement. And this has resulted in an extra days hire charge. Ive seen that the collection agent struggled to make contact with Mr V as Volkswagen didnt 
have his up to date phone number.
While I appreciate Mr Vs comments about the collection agent not having to phone him, I 
think it was his responsibility to ensure that Volkswagen had his up to date details. As such, I 
dont think Volkswagen did anything wrong by providing the collection agent with the most up 
to date information they were aware of. And I wont be asking them to remove the extra days 
hire charge.
Putting things right
As detailed above, Im satisfied that Volkswagen benefitted by £424.25 by allowing Mr V to 
terminate the agreement when he did, when compared to what they wouldve received had 
the agreement run its remaining few months. And, for the reasons given, this wasnt fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Its my understanding that Mr V still owes Volkswagen a total of £767.06, made up of the 
extra days hire charge and the unpaid excess mileage charge. So, Volkswagen should 
reduce this amount by £424.25, and issue an updated invoice to Mr V for the new (reduced) 
amount. Furthermore, if Mr Vs financial circumstances are such that hes unable to make 
the outstanding payment in one go, Id remind Volkswagen of their obligations to treat these 
circumstances with forbearance and due consideration when agreeing a payment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Vs complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Volkswagen Finance should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman