DRN-3919016
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) didnt settle her claim in full 
following fire damage to her home. 
Mrs A brought the complaint on behalf of Mrs H but, for ease of reading and because shes 
the policyholder of the buildings and contents insurance, Ill refer to Mrs H throughout my 
decision.
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
There are two parts to Mrs Hs complaint:
the settlement RSA offered for her kitchen repairs, and
the replacement appliance it offered.
 
Kitchen repairs
During our investigation of Mrs Hs complaint, she and RSA reached agreement on the 
settlement for the kitchen doors and units. Ive looked at the settlement they agreed upon 
and Im pleased to see that its fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and in line with the 
policy wording. Therefore, I wont address this element of the complaint further.
Kitchen appliance
Mrs H is unhappy with the appliance RSA offered in replacement for her damaged one. Mrs 
H had a different brand of appliance to that offered, and she thinks RSA should replace it on 
a like for like basis, including the brand and the value of buying the appliance as new.
RSA said it offered a similar appliance based on product specification, ensuring that the 
brand was of a similar quality. It also gave Mrs H the option of a cash settlement.
Ive looked at the policy documents to see what RSAs offer shouldve been. Under the 
heading, How we settle claims, the policy states:
1b. Where the damage cannot be economically repaired and the damaged or lost item 
can be replaced, we will replace it. If a replacement is not available we will replace it with 
an item of similar quality. d. Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred 
supplier, but instead you request and we agree to pay a cash settlement, then the amount 
will not normally exceed what we would have paid our preferred supplier.
Firstly, Ive noted that the policy says RSA will offer a replacement of similar quality. Theres 
no requirement for it to offer a new appliance on a like for like basis. 
Looking at the appliance RSA offered in its final response to Mrs Hs complaint, its 
comparable with the appliance Mrs H had previously. Although a different brand, it is a 
similar quality brand, and the appliance is also a slightly higher specification. The appliance 
Mrs H asked for is the same brand as that which she had originally, but of a much better 
specification. So, on the face of it, Im satisfied RSA offered a similar appliance in line with 
the policy.
Mrs H said RSA valued her appliance at £2,499, so her loss is also valued at £2,499. I dont 
agree. Mrs Hs loss is of a seven-year-old appliance which is no longer in production. So, 
regardless of the cost, RSAs liability is to replace it with one of a similar quality. RSA offered 
a new appliance, with a similar if not better specification, which I consider to be in line with 
the policy terms and conditions.
My final point on this issue is in response to Mrs Hs statement that RSA was being 
unreasonable in refusing to offer an appliance of the same brand as the one deemed beyond 
repair. She said her family always used the same brand of appliance which they found to be 
reliable. I have no reason to doubt what she says. However, looking at the quote for a new 
kitchen, including appliances, which Mrs H provided for RSA in support of her claim, I note it 
includes appliances of two different brands. Specifically, the appliance shown on the quote 
to replace the appliance in question, here, is the same brand as that offered by RSA. 
Therefore, I dont think RSA was being unreasonable in offering the brand of appliance it did.
Overall, Im satisfied that RSA made a fair and reasonable offer to replace Mrs Hs appliance 
on the basis of similar quality in line with the policy terms and conditions. I wont be asking 
RSA to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman