DRN-1658155
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs H. Allianz didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1995 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs H was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs H has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The credit application form, which Mrs H signed, did set out the PPI as a choice, which you 
made by ticking a box. I can see there is a tick against this box. I realise its possible Mrs H 
may argue that she wouldnt have ticked the box and someone else must have done it  she 
says she has never taken PPI and always opts out of such policies. However, I cant be sure 
how well Mrs H will have remembered all the detail of something that happened about 25 
years ago. And, if Mrs H is sure she never would have ticked the box, the burden of proof in 
such a situation would be on her  it wouldnt be fair to require Allianz to prove that it didnt 
 do something wrong like this. And I cant see that it would be possible to prove this, so 
many years later. So the strongest evidence I have is the form, which does show Mrs H 
agreeing to the PPI. So, on the evidence, I think its more likely than not that she did agree to 
the PPI. 
It doesnt seem that Allianz recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Hs 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs H to decide whether it was suitable.
However Allianz did need to give Mrs H clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was 
given to Mrs H. So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a 
difference. But, in Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the 
necessary information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. (This is assuming she chose the PPI, which I accept she says didnt happen.) I say this because 
its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than her likely full employer sick 
pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. 
And it would mean she could keep in reserve for longer any other sources of help she may 
have had.  Also it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful, 
and better information probably wouldnt have made a difference to whether or not Mrs H 
took the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman