DRN-4333636
The complaint
Mr K complains that ClearBank Limited blocked his business account and closed it without 
notice. Mr K would like the closing balance released and compensation.
What happened
Mr K had an account with ClearBank.
ClearBank carried out a review of Mr Ks account. They blocked the account on 30 
September 2021.  They asked Mr K to provide proof of entitlement to some payments. Mr K 
provided documentation on 30 September 2021. ClearBank informed Mr K that its account 
would close with immediate effect on 30 September 2021.The bank asked Mr K for a 
nominated account to transfer the balance in the account. The balance on the account was 
£266.67.
Mr K has said that he had difficulty in registering a complaint with the bank. And in getting 
statements.
Mr K complained to ClearBank. They said they should have given Mr K notice earlier in order 
to give him a chance to make alternative banking arrangements. They awarded Mr K £25 
compensation.
Mr K was unhappy with the response and complained to our service. I am aware that Mr K 
has two further complaints regarding business accounts with our service and these will be 
dealt with separately.
Mr K told us he had been unable to make payments to his mortgage lenders and had 
suffered loss and financial harm.
One of the adjudicators looked int the complaint. She said ClearBank hadnt done anything 
wrong when they blocked and closed Mr Ks account. She thought the bank was entitled to 
ask for a nominated account to return the closing balance. She didnt think ClearBank had to 
send a cheque if this wasnt its process. She thought the complaint Mr K had raised had 
been acknowledged the next day and she could see that the statements Mr K had requested 
had been sent to him.
Mr K was unhappy with the view. As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K requested time to provide this service with further information which we have granted. 
However, despite giving Mr K the opportunity to provide further information, he hasnt done 
so. I have to balance Mr Ks wish to provide more evidence with the need to provide both 
parties with a prompt answer to the complaint. I have considered whether I have sufficient 
information on file to reach a fair and reasonable decision. Our service is an alternative to 
the courts, and it provides an informal way to resolve disputes between parties. Having 
looked at all the information on the file Im satisfied that I have enough information to reach a 
fair and reasonable outcome, so I have proceeded to review all the evidence provided to me 
by both parties and reach a final decision.
Review and Block 
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ks account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied ClearBank were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Ks account. 
ClearBank blocked Mr Ks account and requested information about some payments. Mr K 
provided information that same day.
ClearBank can block an account whilst it carried out its review. I can see that in blocking the 
account the bank were following an internal process which they carried out in order to 
comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a legitimate exercise so I cant 
say ClearBank was unfair. Ive looked at the terms of the account and Im satisfied 
ClearBank could block the account. Im also satisfied they didnt cause any delays and they 
carried out the review promptly.
Closure
ClearBank then let Mr K know it was closing the account with immediate effect. So, Ive next 
looked at ClearBanks decision to close the account. Banks are entitled to end their business 
relationship with a customer, as long as its done fairly and is in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. The terms and conditions of Mr Ks account say that ClearBank 
can close an account in certain circumstances immediately and also by giving notice. 
ClearBank closed Mr Ks account with immediate effect. ClearBank later said to Mr K in its 
final response letter (FRL) that they should have given him notice to allow it to make 
alternative arrangements They awarded Mr K £25 in compensation. When Mr K referred the 
complaint to our service ClearBank said their terms allowed for immediate closure and they 
had acted fairly when closing Mr Ks account with immediate effect. 
Because of the different statements made by ClearBank regarding the closure of Mr Ks 
account Ive gone on to consider if ClearBank acted fairly in closing the account with 
immediate effect. I have reviewed in detail all the information received from both parties and 
the terms and conditions of the account. As Ive said ClearBank terms allow it to close 
accounts giving notice and in some cases without notice. Since Mr Ks account was closed 
without notice Ive gone on to check if I think they acted fairly in doing so and looking at the 
information provided Im satisfied that they acted fairly when closing the account 
immediately. It follows I dont think compensation is due. 
Ive then considered the impact the conflicting statements had on Mr K and whether this 
caused Mr K any detriment. On balance Im not satisfied that it has. I say this because the 
account was always going to be closed, Mr K was originally given immediate notice and by 
the time the FRL was sent on 20 October 2021 the account had closed and Mr K had been awarded £25 in compensation. So therefore, being told he should have got more notice 
wouldnt change the outcome of Mr K having to look for another account.
I have gone on to consider whether the £25 compensation offered was reasonable in the 
circumstances. Having done so Im satisfied that ClearBank were entitled to close the 
account with immediate effect so in my view no compensation is due, and I wont be 
directing ClearBank to pay any compensation. I know Clearbank previously made an offer to 
Mr K. As Ive mentioned I don't think anything is warranted so Ill leave it to Clearbank and 
Mr K to determine if this is still available should Mr K now wish to accept it.
Closing balance
The account had a closing balance of £266.67. Mr K has said he would like this paid by 
cheque. ClearBank have said that they operate digitally and as such only send funds to 
accounts and thats why they asked for Mr Ks new bank details. ClearBank is entitled to 
have its processes in place as to how it runs its accounts, and I dont think its done anything 
wrong by requesting Mr Ks bank details. I know Mr K hasnt wanted to provide the bank with 
his new account details. However as there is a process in place which Mr K can follow, I will 
leave it to Mr K to pass the details of its new account to ClearBank. I dont think ClearBank 
have done anything wrong by following this process.
Mr K asked ClearBank to provide statements for his account. I can see from the file that a 
link was provided via our service for Mr K to access the account statements and this was 
forwarded to Mr K by our adjudicator, so Im satisfied he has had his statements as 
requested.
Mr K has also said he wasnt able to raise a complaint via the app as his account was 
blocked. However, I know the complaint was raised and the complaint was acknowledged 
shortly after. An FRL was issued regarding the complaint so I cant say that Mr K has been 
prejudiced by this. I wont be awarding any compensation for this.
Mr K mentioned losses he had incurred as a result of the block and closure. And he has 
provided us with evidence. As Ive mentioned above, I think the account block and 
immediate closure was fair so I cant say that ClearBank should be held liable for any 
business losses incurred by Mr K. I can see that the direct debits for the mortgages went 
unpaid on 7 October and 21 October 2021. However, these mortgages were in the name of 
limited companies and not in Mr Ks name. A limited company is a separate legal entity. This 
complaint is in respect of Mr Ks sole trader business account so I cant see how Mr K has 
suffered a loss. But in any event Mr K was aware that the account had been closed on 
30 September 2021 and so I would have expected him to make alternative arrangements to 
pay his mortgage direct debits. I dont think this was ClearBanks responsibility, so I wont be 
asking them to cover Mr Ks losses. 
In addition, the funds remaining in the account at closure were £266.67 which is substantially 
below any mortgage payments Mr K has said he has to pay, so I dont think his having 
access to this money would have prevented delays in paying the mortgages.
In summary having looked at all the information provided by both parties Im satisfied that 
ClearBank acted fairly when they blocked and closed Mr Ks account and I wont be asking 
them to pay any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman