DRN-4051320
The complaint
Mr G complains that Metro Bank PLC  trading as RateSetter (RateSetter) failed to cancel a 
loan he denied applying for.
What happened
What Mr G says
Mr G has said that he was the victim of a scam and a person who Ill refer to as V persuaded 
Mr G that he was an employee of his banks fraud department. Mr G was told his account 
was compromised and that his bank was dealing with the issue.
A series of text messages were sent to Mr G from V and were titled fraud. Mr G was in 
contact with V for about four weeks whist a series of loans were taken out in Mr Gs name. 
Mr G was told by V to ignore the loans as they (his bank) were in direct contact with the 
companies and the issue was being dealt with.
Mr G was also told to delete his online banking profile because the scammers had 
compromised it. Mr G was told this would assist him securing his account. It was 
subsequently found that someone else (presumably V) set up another profile using Mr Gs 
details and was able to move funds out of the account after securing five different loans in 
Mr Gs name.
Mr G said that after a conversation with a friend, he was advised to visit his bank. At this 
point his bank told Mr G he was the victim of a scam and later refunded Mr Gs personal 
funds that were taken as a result of the crime. Several other loan companies also accepted 
Mr G was the victim and wrote off the debts. 
RateSetter didnt receive the first repayment of the loan and spoke with Mr G about it. Mr G 
explained what had happened, but RateSetter declined to write off the debt. Mr G raised a 
complaint but RateSetter didnt change their position. Mr G then brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
What RateSetter say
RateSetter received an application for a loan for £17,000 and carried out various checks into 
the application and were satisfied the loan could be given to Mr G. The application used Mr 
Gs genuine email and he received communication from them about it, including notification 
that it was successful.
Once the payment was made to Mr Gs genuine bank account, the funds were transferred to 
a different account under the control of V. RateSetter contacted Mr G when the first 
repayment for the loan failed. Mr G explained the situation to them, providing copies of text 
messages hed had from V, copies of his statements and letters from various other loan 
firms and his bank that confirmed other loans had been written off and that he was the victim 
of a scam.
RateSetter told Mr G that they werent going to write of the loan because:
The loan was transferred into Mr Gs genuine account.
A new mobile banking enrolment was created for his account held with his bank and 
72 payments were allowed to pass through it without intervention.
The fraud happened at the point the money was transferred out from his bank 
account and not at the point of the loan application.
Mr G would have received multiple communications from RateSetter, and he would 
have had full knowledge of the terms and conditions. It was reasonable for Mr G to 
have contacted RateSetter at the earliest opportunity about the loan if he believed it 
was fraudulent.
The investigation so far
Mr Gs complaint was assigned to an investigator who obtained evidence from both parties. 
Mr G sent the correspondence hed had from other loan companies and his bank. He also 
supplied copies of text messages received from V.
RateSetter provided details about the loan application and the checks theyd carried out plus 
other information concerning the loan process and messages sent to Mr G. RateSetter re-
iterated the position theyd set out in their response to Mr G (listed above), they also said 
they couldnt verify one of the loan companys letters Mr G had given them.
After considering the evidence, the investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint and recommended 
that the debt be written off and any adverse information reported to the credit reference 
agencies be removed.
The investigator didnt think that Mr G authorised the loan application because it was likely 
the result of an account takeover by (V) that enabled multiple loans to be taken out in his 
name. The investigator didnt think that Mr Gs lack of contact with RateSetter was unusual 
here because hed been persuaded that the bank was dealing with it. 
RateSetter disagreed with the outcome and repeated their position, adding that theyd never 
received any evidence that Mr G was told not to contact them about the loan.
Mr G also provided a copy of a letter hed received at his address in the name of a female 
(who he confirmed he didnt know), sent by RateSetter. The letter referred to another fraud 
claim. Mr G said hed notified them about the letter but hadnt heard anything back from 
them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RateSetters case is that the loss didnt happen until the funds were transferred out of Mr Gs 
bank account. They also believe that Mr G had opportunity to notify them earlier about the 
loan. Theyve also said the checks they carried out, including the genuine email address, 
point to Mr G knowing about the loan and as it was sent to his genuine bank account, he 
should be responsible for it.
It's the case with Mr Gs complaint that he denies applying for the loan or signing any loan documents. Hes also stated that he didnt supply any details to V or give him access to his 
bank account.
It appears that someone made an application in Mr Gs name, using his details to complete 
the loan application. Mr G has confirmed the mobile phone number associated with the 
application doesnt belong to him.
The crux of the complaint is whether Mr G can be held liable for the loan application or not. If 
he can, then he would be liable to repay it. On the other hand, if on balance, the evidence 
points to (V) being responsible, then Mr G wouldnt be liable for the loan application and the 
resulting debt. 
Ive examined the evidence provided by both parties and I can see that the loan application 
made to RateSetter contains genuine details linked to Mr G, including his email address. Mr 
G himself provided copies of some messages he received from RateSetter about the loan.
It's his case that he was dealing with V for several weeks before visiting his local branch on 
the advice of a friend. In that time, over £60,000 had been obtained through various loans 
and some of Mr Gs own funds were also removed from the account.
His bank confirmed to our service that they had refunded him as a result of what took place 
on his account. Ive also seen various letters from other loan companies that show Mr G was 
named as the loan applicant and theyd been subsequently removed. I note that RateSetter 
couldnt confirm the letter from one of the companies was genuine. Given that Mr G has said 
he had the other loans written off, it seems unlikely he would have provided a letter about 
one of them that was incorrect. Thats because if the loan wasnt written off, he would be 
liable and that doesnt appear to be the case.
RateSetter were asked if they could provide evidence that directly linked Mr G to the 
acceptance of the loan. They were able to provide details of an email sent to Mr Gs address 
that showed a link to the online loan document. Logging into the account was required to 
accept the loan, but theres no evidence available to say where this was done from. It 
remains a possibility that whoever applied for the loan and completed the original account 
details using Mr Gs information later logged into the account to accept the loan.
Once that happened, the funds were sent to Mr Gs genuine bank account the next day and 
later transferred away by V. Whilst I accept that Mr G received the link to the loan 
application, theres no evidence it was him that completed the loan acceptance form. In fact, 
it's his case that it was V who was responsible for all the loan applications in his name. 
I appreciate that RateSetter think Mr G could have raised the issue sooner and I do think it 
unusual that Mr G waited so long before he made other enquiries with his bank about the 
suspicious activity around the various loan applications being made in his name. But here, 
he explained that V was very professional and seemed to know a great deal about Mr G. A 
copy of one of the messages he received said:
upon investigating the reported fraudulent loan applications our department has 
contacted several companies who have received applications in your name. We are working 
with these companies to resolve this attempted fraud as soon as possible.
So, the evidence provided by Mr G including his testimony point to a third party (V) being 
involved in a lengthy scam against Mr G. It appears that the whole purpose of the scam was 
to prevent Mr G from accessing his online banking (by getting him to cancel his own access) 
and then to add the loans to the account and transfer it to various other accounts in Vs 
name. The outgoing payments were kept relatively small, no doubt to avoid the bank from noticing, but if Mr G had access it would have been obvious what was going on.
I havent relied heavily on the other businesses positions regarding this scam, but the 
responses from other loan companies and his bank (who have confirmed the scam refund 
was genuine) seem to indicate that Mr G was a victim of a scam. Taken together with the 
evidence related to the RateSetter loan, the lack of clarity over who opened the account and 
ultimately signed the loan application, on balance I dont think theres sufficient evidence to 
hold Mr G responsible for the loan. 
Putting things right
In order to put Mr G back in the position he would have been if this hadnt happened to him, 
RateSetter should now rewind the loan (ensuring Mr G has no further obligation to make any 
payments to RateSetter concerning this loan), including the removal of any additional 
charges resulting from it and to remove any adverse reporting made to the credit reference 
agencies resulting from the false loan application.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC  trading as 
RateSetter and theyre instructed to settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman