DRN-3890441
The complaint
Mr B, a sole trader, is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC defaulted his Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL) and transferred the BBL debt to a debt collection agency (DCA).
What happened
Mr B successfully applied to Barclays for a BBL. Payments for the BBL were set to begin in 
February 2022. But Mr B didnt make any payments towards the loan, and in May 2022 
Barclays started recovery action which led to the defaulting of the BBL for non-payment. 
Mr B wasnt happy about this as he felt that hed tried to find a suitable payment 
arrangement with Barclays, and he also wasnt happy that Barclays later transferred the BBL 
debt to a DCA, which he hadnt authorised them to do. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mr B and explained that they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by 
defaulting Mr Bs BBL or by transferring the debt to a DCA. Mr B wasnt satisfied with 
Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Barclays had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
When a borrower doesnt make payments required by w loan agreement, it would be 
expected that the lender would attempt to inform that borrower that the required payments 
havent been made and give the lender time to remedy the position. 
Im satisfied that Barclays did that here, and I note arrears notifications that were sent to Mr 
B by Barclays in February, March, April, and May 2022. These letters confirmed the 
payments that had been missed, the level of arrears present on Mr Bs BBL at those times 
and gave Mr B information to enable him to contact Barclays to discuss the arrears that were 
accruing on the account.
Mr B did contact Barclays and provided details of his income and expenditure to them. 
Unfortunately, the information Mr B provided showed that he had no disposable income with 
which to make the BBL payments, which meant Barclays couldnt set up a payment plan with 
him. In turn, this also meant that the only viable option left open to Barclays was to follow the 
process to default Mr Bs BBL for non-payment. 
Mr B may argue that he was trying to make a payment arrangement with Barclays but that 
they wouldnt accept the offer he was making. However, I dont think it was unreasonable of 
Barclays to decline Mr Bs proposal given that the income and expenditure information they 
obtained from Mr B showed that he had no disposable income available to make the 
payment he was offering. Indeed, had Barclays accepted Mr Bs proposal, it seems likely 
that the monthly amount offered by Mr B wouldnt have been sustainable for him and so may 
have put Mr B in further difficulty.
Defaulting the loan in question had the effect of stopping the accrual of interest on the loan 
and freezing the account balance, so that Mr B didnt continue to fall further into debt with 
each passing month  as I feel its likely he would have done had the account remained 
live, with interest being applied to the account balance on a monthly basis. 
Importantly, given that a loan agreement  including a BBL agreement  includes that 
interest will be applied to the account balance, it isnt the case that a credit provider would 
generally be expected to stop applying interest to a loan while that account remained live. 
Instead, its usually the act of defaulting an account which stops the further accrual of 
interest on a loan account and prevents the account holder from falling further into debt. 
In consideration of the above, Im satisfied that Barclays havent acted unfairly by defaulting 
Mr Bs BBL as they have here. 
Having defaulted Mr Bs BBL, Im satisfied that Barclays were entitled to then transfer the 
BBL debt to a DCA. This is because the transferral of debt to DCAs is a common practice 
and one which is addressed and permitted by the terms of the BBL agreement  specifically, 
section 18  which Mr B agreed and consented to when he took the BBL. And Barclays 
didnt require any further authorisation from Mr B beyond this to take the steps they did.
Accordingly, it follows from all the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Barclays to take any further action. In short, this is because Im satisfied that it 
was fair for Barclays to default the BBL and that Mr B had already provided his authorisation 
for Barclays to transfer the BBL debt to a DCA when he accepted the terms of the BBL 
agreement and received the loan.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B may have wanted here, but I trust that hell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman