DRN-1744981
The complaint
Mr Ns complaint about American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) relates to a 
number of matters. He raised a chargeback for £2,077.66 which was refunded but by the 
merchant, but he feels he received poor service; his account was cancelled resulting in the 
loss of his accumulated reward points; his account was passed to AMEXs collections 
department, and adverse data was recorded on his credit file. He also complains about a 
missing refund from a company I shall call T. Mr N would like his account restored to a zero 
balance, his account re-instated along with his reward points.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr N and AMEX, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
However, in summary, Mr N raised a chargeback dispute for £2,027.77 (the dispute) being a 
payment made to a company called BB on the 6 December 2018. Amex say that transaction 
was refunded by BB on the 28 December 2018, and so it closed the chargeback dispute. Mr 
N says that he was told during a call on the 28 February AMEX explicitly told him that the 
statement they had sent him was wrong and that he did not have to pay the statement 
balance, rather he had to pay that which he was advised on the telephone. As Mr N didnt 
pay the balance AMEX stated was due, AMEX recorded a missed payment and ultimately 
cancelled his account and passed it to their collections dept.
In so far as the £2,000 refund (the refund) from T is concerned, Mr N was entitled to a refund 
to which T agreed. Mr N maintains that it has been paid to AMEX who deny that they have 
received it, pointing to an email from T to Mr N confirming that the refund has been made, 
but to a different card. As such AMEX deny that they have done anything wrong in relation to 
either complaint.
Mr N was unhappy with AMEXs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and having 
done so, concluded that AMEX hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint 
fairly.
Mr N didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  I have considered both sides views in considering whether AMEX acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
AMEX has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
The Refund
The agreed facts are that Mr N is due a refund from T. The evidence, in the form of an email 
dated 9 May 2018 from T to Mr N, shows that a refund was made by T on the 11/5/17. 
Although Mr N disputes this was ever received into his account (his email 10 May 2018), a 
further email from T dated 16 May 2018 confirms the refund was made to another of Mr Ns 
cards, and he was then asked to call so that AMEX could give him the details. There is no 
evidence to show where the refund ultimately went to, but there is, in my view, sufficient 
evidence to show that a refund, per se, was made to Mr N. That being the case, it supports 
AMEXs view that it was not made to them, and the most likely explanation is that it was 
made to another card, which is again supported by the email of the 16 May. So, on a 
balance of probabilities it is likely that the refund was not made to AMEX and I cant say they 
have acted unfairly.
The Dispute
The accepted facts here are that there was a debit to Mr Ns account in favour of BB. There 
is also a credit to his account some 22 days later for an amount which is almost identical. On 
a balance of probabilities this is the same transaction, with the variation being accounted for 
by the exchange rate fluctuation.
The confusion which has arisen, comes from the accounting method AMEX employ. Whilst a 
perfectly proper method, I can understand why Mr N may have been confused by it. What 
does not appear is a credit to his account when the chargeback is raised, rather the amount 
in dispute is suspended. What that means is that although the transaction appears on his 
statement as due, it is suspended from the total payment due. 
I have looked at the statement date the 3 January 2019, and this can clearly be seen as the 
balance due is less than the full closing balance by precisely the amount in dispute. So, 
because the transaction was suspended, then on the following months statement it is 
removed from suspension and becomes due along with any other amounts due. Again, 
having checked the statement of the 3 February I can see that is correct. So, I am satisfied 
that AMEX have correctly dealt with the chargeback.
Mr N does of course rely on the telephone call he had with AMEX whom he says told him 
what he had to pay, which in effect was to exclude the disputed amount. That call is not 
available to me, and so I must look to the other evidence. There is a note of a call of the 4 
March wherein Mr N was clearly told what he had to pay and why. Following that a letter 
dated 9 April was sent to him advising that the account was seriously overdue and what he 
must pay. That amount was the precise amount of the dispute. Mr N was also advised of the 
potential consequences if payment was not made. As a fact payment was not made and that 
led to a notice of default being issued on the 13 April.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ns assertions regarding the missing telephone call, whether what he 
says is accurate or not, becomes a side issue since the telephone call of the 4 March and 
subsequent letters from AMEX clearly dispel any such notion that the amount in dispute was 
not due. So, when AMEX decided to cancel the account, transfer it to collections and report 
the late payment, that was in my view reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions which governed the operation of Mr Ns account. Additionally, one of the consequences of 
having an account cancelled is that the points Mr N had amassed are lost.
So, although Mr N will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say AMEX has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here, since the amount in dispute was in fact due and it was 
not paid triggering the consequences of such non-payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman