DRN-2500277
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined a claim for 
storm damage under her home insurance.
What happened
In December 2019, Mrs S noticed water coming through the ceiling and down the walls of a 
room in her house. She contacted her builder to make some emergency repairs to stop the 
leak. Mrs Ss builder found that part of the lead flashing had come away from a wall on Mrs 
Ss roof terrace, allowing rainwater to channel into the house. 
Mrs S contacted her insurer to arrange permanent repairs and make a claim for the water 
damage under her home insurance policy. Mrs S had John Lewis Home Insurance, 
underwritten by RSA.
RSA appointed experts, B, to deal with Mrs Ss claim. B inspected the roof terrace in early 
January 2020. He found no evidence of storm damage and concluded that the leak was 
due to a natural breakdown of materials. 
RSA checked the local weather data for the month before Mrs S discovered the leak. It didnt 
find conditions that it classed as a storm. Given this weather data and Bs report, it 
concluded that the damage to Mrs Ss home occurred over a period of time. It declined her 
claim as this wasnt covered by her insurance policy.
Mrs S was unhappy with this and appointed her own expert, H, who inspected the damage 
two weeks after B. H disagreed with Bs findings. In summary, he concluded that the 
damage was as a result of strong winds and prolonged heavy rain, ie storm damage. 
Based on Hs report, and weather data from the Met Office, Mrs S first challenged RSAs 
decision, then complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. She said the 
data from a nearby weather station didnt show a storm. She also thought the emergency 
repair work carried out by Mrs Ss builder was consistent with Bs explanation of the 
damage. As such, our investigator didnt think RSAs decision to reject Mrs Ss claim was 
unreasonable. 
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators findings, so the case was passed to me to make a 
final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 14 December 2020. I said:
Like most polices, Mrs Ss cover only makes RSA liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events. So identifying damage exists isnt enough alone to make RSA liable for 
repairing it; the damage needs to be caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy 
for RSA to be liable. 
Under What is covered, Mrs Ss policy lists Physical damage to the buildings and loss or 
damage to contents caused by storm or flood. The policy booklet confirms that damage 
caused by water entering the house other than by storm or flood isnt covered.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions we ask: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed. This is broadly the 
same test set out by RSA in its final response letter to Mrs S. 
Ill consider each in turn.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
Some buildings and contents policies define a storm. Mrs Ss policy doesnt. However, 
RSAs final decision letter says, We consider storm as per the Beaufort Wind Scale 
however we understand that slight structural damage can occur during winds of 47mph of 
more. Rain alone will not damage the externals of your property however we accept that rain 
of certain intensity (16mm of rainfall an hour) can start to get inside. Our view is that a storm 
generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. So I think RSAs 
definition is reasonable.
Mrs S sent us weather information she was given over the phone by the Met Office. She 
highlighted gale force winds on 14 December and heavy rainfall on both 14 and 15 
December 2019  just a few days before she saw the leak  that would meet RSAs criteria. 
The Met Office told Mrs S that the data was taken from a weather station approximately six 
miles from her home.
The Eurotempest data for that weather station doesnt quite match the information Mrs S 
gave us. It shows the same gale force wind on 14 December (53mph gusts, average 
30mph), but significantly lower rainfall (maximum 5.8mm hourly, 11.2mm over a 24hr 
period).
Our investigator explained that we were able to get data from the weather station one mile 
from Mrs Ss home. This shows slightly lower winds (40mph gusts, 16mph average) and 
rainfall (11mm in 24hrs) on 14 December.
Ive also looked at the Met Offices website and its information for the 2019/2020 storm 
season. It shows that Storm Atiyah hit the UK on 8/9 December 2019. While Atiyah mainly 
affected Wales, SW England, and the south coast, the Eurotempest data for those dates 
shows winds up to 48mph at the weather station six miles from Mrs S. The weather station a 
mile from her home recorded winds up to 40mph.
Having reviewed the weather data, Im satisfied that on two separate days in the two weeks 
before Mrs S discovered the leak, there were winds of over 47mph within six miles of Mrs 
Ss home. This meets RSAs definition of a storm. 
For this reason, I disagree with RSA and our investigator. Im satisfied that there were storm 
conditions on or around the date of the claim.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?RSA and Mrs S agree that the damage in Mrs Ss home was caused by rainwater coming 
through the roof terrace. However, the parties disagree about what caused the leak. Ive 
studied the conflicting expert reports. Ill summarise each:
B (for RSA) says:
There was no evidence of storm damage.
The corner to the ash felt under the flashing was cracked. This was due to a 
natural breakdown of materials.
The damage occurred in a very secluded and sheltered area that couldnt have 
been caused by high winds. He noted that pot plants and garden furniture would 
have been severely disturbed and this did not happen.
H (for Mrs S) says:
The leak was due to a gap between the lead flashing and a perimeter wall on the roof 
terrace. This was caused by strong winds and heavy rain. 
There was no crack in the asphalt under the lead flashing.
The house, brickwork, pointing, and terrace tiles were otherwise in good condition.
The displacement was not the result of weathering to the mortar in which the 
flashing is bedded or cracking of the asphalt upstand. There is no sign of neglect.
Im more persuaded by H. I find his reports to be more detailed and better argued. His 
conclusions are based on two visits, including a close inspection of the asphalt beneath the 
lead flashing. Bs report appears to be a single page with brief notes taken during the visit on 
7 January 2020, plus an undated letter to Mrs S confirming its findings.
Bs findings are also more easily refuted. For example:
B said in his 12 February 2020 email that he hadnt lifted the flashing. But Bs 
undated letter appears to contradict this: In the corner of the ash felt [sic] under the 
flashing it is clear this has cracked.
In any case, H lifted the flashing on his second visit and found no crack in the 
asphalt. 
Mrs S said the furniture on the roof terrace had been overturned, but her builder 
tidied this.
RSAs 10 January 2020 email, based on Bs report, said the leak happened over a 
long period of time. Bs email on 12 February 2020 accepted that it was not a long 
term leak.
Photographs of the walls show a significant amount of water damage. I agree with H 
that its likely Mrs S would have spotted this sooner if the leak had developed over a 
long period of time.
For the reasons above, Im satisfied that the damage to Mrs Ss home is consistent with 
storm damage.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the problems with the flashing were due to natural wear and tear, I might expect there to 
be similar damage elsewhere on the roof terrace, or some other signs of wear and tear. 
Again, I think Hs report addresses this. He said Mrs Ss roof terrace was in good condition 
and well kept. He found no signs of weathering or deterioration to the tiles or flashing on the 
roof terrace. Bs report contains no evidence that contradicts this. Given the damage occurred in a small 
area, and no other areas of the roof terrace showed similar deterioration or weathering, Im 
satisfied that the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage.
For the reasons above, Im persuaded that there were storm force winds in December 2019. 
These winds tore an area of lead flashing away from a wall on Mrs Ss roof terrace. This 
allowed rainwater through the resulting gap, causing water damage inside Mrs Ss home. It 
follows that I find RSAs unfairly rejected Mrs Ss claim.
Finally, Mrs S was upset by the tone of the correspondence from RSA. For example, RSAs 
initial rejection of her claim was a brief email which didnt include Bs report, and emails to 
Mrs S from B  either directly or copied into emails from RSA  were unnecessarily abrupt 
and dismissive (nothing [H] says makes sense a revisit would achieve nothing). I find this 
caused Mrs S unnecessary distress. I intend to ask RSA to pay Mrs S £100 for this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs S accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. She asked that if 
RSA submitted any new evidence, she should be allowed the chance to respond.
RSA said it had nothing to add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc to: 
settle Mrs Ss claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions; and
pay Mrs S £100 for the distress its correspondence caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman