DRN-4404874
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him for transactions he says he 
didnt make or authorise totalling just over £30,000. 
What happened
Mr K has two accounts with Lloyds  a savings account and a current account.
Between 30 March 2023 and 28 April 2023, a series of card transactions were made to a 
social media platform, which I will call T. The transactions were funded by multiple transfers 
using Lloyds mobile banking app, from Mr Ks savings account into his current account. 
On 28 April 2023, Mr K told Lloyds that he hadnt made any of the payments and had 
discovered the payments after checking his account. He says he noticed someone had been 
transferring funds form his savings account into his current account and them making 
payments to T. He told Lloyds that he had no knowledge of T. He also told Lloyds that he 
was still in possession of his bank card, which he kept in his wallet, and no one has access 
to it. Mr K said that he hadnt disclosed his online banking details, or security credentials 
needed to access his bank accounts. So, he believes someone had managed to get hold of  
all of his account information to make the transfers and payments.
Lloyds looked into Mr Ks fraud claim and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. In 
summary the bank said:
The IP address used to make the disputed transactions matched undisputed 
transactions Mr K had made 
The transactions were authenticated via a notification in the mobile banking app that 
was confirmed using Mr Ks registered mobile banking device and usual IP address
The transactions made to T were done by manually keying in Mr Ks card details 
including the three-digit CVV number
Mr Ks registered mobile banking device was used to transfer funds from his savings 
account to his current account
Mr K denied any knowledge of T. But on 30 March 2023, Lloyds received a call from 
Mr K, using the same mobile number hed registered with the bank, after Lloyds had 
blocked another online payment Mr K had tried to make. During the call, Lloyds 
asked Mr K some security questions about the activity on his account. Lloyds asked 
him if he had made any payments to T. Mr K confirmed that he had and that he had 
made a payment for £214 on 30 March 2023.
Following this Lloyds unblocked Mr Ks account and sent further texts to Mr Ks 
mobile number to authorise additional payments to T. 
Mr K wasnt happy with the banks response. So, he brought his complaint to our service. He 
maintained he never made the transactions to T or the transfers from his savings account. 
He said that someone else has managed to obtain his account information to carry out all 
the transactions. He said that he had listened to a recording of the call on 30 March 2023, 
and that it wasnt him on the call because whoever was speaking to the bank failed a 
security question. So, he wants Lloyds to refund him the transactions because he is a victim 
of fraud.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint. She asked Mr K some more 
questions about what had happened. Mr K maintained that he never made the transactions 
and that someone must have hacked his account. But he wasnt able to provide any 
evidence to support this.
 
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. She said that Mr Ks registered mobile 
phone had been used to access online banking and make the transfers. She said there was 
no plausible explanation for how someone would be able to access to Mr Ks bank card 
which was used to make the payments to T. She also said that during a call with Lloyds on 
30 March 2023, which had been made from Mr Ks mobile number, Mr K had confirmed hed 
made a payment to T, which contradicted what hed said about not knowing anything about 
T. So, based on everything, she said Mr K had most likely authorised the disputed 
transactions.
 
Mr K disagreed with what the investigator said. He said he didnt carry out the transactions 
and Lloyds should have been checking his account and stopped the transactions from being 
made. He said it wasnt him on the call, it was a fraudster because they got security 
questions Lloyds asked wrong. So, Lloyds should refund the transactions.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. Generally speaking, if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr K authorised the payments, Lloyds is 
entitled to hold him liable for the disputed transactions. The relevant regulations, to this 
effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). 
The PSRs 2017 say a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer has given 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction.  If a payment service user (customer) 
denied having authorised an executed payment  the payment service provider (in this case 
Lloyds) has to prove the payment transaction was authenticated. And if it is deemed that a 
payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised.
PSR 2017 goes onto say a payment service provider is required to refund the amount if an 
unauthorised transaction is made to the payer.
Mr K says he didnt consent to or authorise the transfers between his accounts and the 
subsequent payments to T.  He is seeking a refund of the payments made from his account. 
Lloyds say it considers the evidence suggests the transfers and payments were made by 
Mr K, and he is therefore liable for them. So, I need to think about whether the evidence I 
have suggests the payments were authenticated and whether it is more likely than not Mr K, 
or somebody with his knowledge or authority, carried out the transfers and payments Mr K is 
now disputing.Having looked at all the evidence, which includes the technical evidence provided by Lloyds, 
I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to have concluded that Mr K authorised the 
transactions. I say this because:
From looking at the technical data provided by Lloyds, I can see that the disputed 
transfers from Mr Ks savings account were made using Mr Ks registered mobile 
device logging into his mobile banking app. There were no failed attempts to log into 
the online app either before or after the disputed transactions. Logging into the online 
banking app requires customers to complete biometric security which customers 
create themselves when registering for online banking. So, Im satisfied from Lloyds 
technical evidence that Mr Ks registered mobile device was used when the disputed 
transfers were made, and that the transfers were authenticated as Mr Ks correct 
security details were entered to access the online banking app.
Mr K says he hasnt disclosed his online banking app security credentials to anyone. 
He has also said that he hadnt lost his mobile phone and it hadnt been stolen. So, 
theres no reasonable explanation for how an unknown third party would be able to 
gain access to Mr Ks online banking via his mobile phone to carry out the disputed 
transactions from his savings account into his current account.
The IP address used to make most of the disputed transactions was one which had 
consistently been used for previous logins before the disputed transactions  and 
which continued to be used for logins after the disputed transactions to make 
undisputed transactions. In short, the transfers were made from Mr Ks mobile 
device, using his usual internet connection with his security details being required to 
access the online banking app and make the transfers.
The disputed transfers from Mr Ks savings account took place over a period of 
around a month at various times. This would mean a third party would have had to 
take and replace Mr Ks mobile phone without being noticed over an extended period 
and at different times. I dont think that an unknown third party would risk taking 
Mr Ks mobile phone, replacing it, taking it again, completing further transactions and 
then returning it. This back and forth wouldve created an unnecessary risk of alerting 
Mr K that fraudulent transactions were taking place. Its more typical for the account 
to be used as quickly and for as much as possible. But this didnt happen.
Each of the disputed transactions to T went through an additional layer of security to 
authenticate the payments. In this case a text message was sent to Mr Ks registered 
mobile phone to confirm the payment as genuine. Therefore, there is no evidence of 
any other third-party device access or registrations.
The disputed payments to T were made using Mr Ks genuine bank card details 
being manually entered, including the three digit CVV. Mr K said that he was still in 
possession of his card, which he kept in his wallet. Mr Ks card details arent visible 
when logging into his mobile banking app, which mean whoever made the 
transactions needed to be aware of these details or in physical possession of the 
card. So, theres no plausible explanation for how an unknown third party would gain 
access to Mr Ks card details without his knowledge or consent. This means, I cant 
reasonably conclude that an unknown party to Mr K made the transactions.The disputed card transactions were made to a social media company, T. I am 
mindful that Mr K has said he has no knowledge of T. But this isnt consistent with the 
phone call he made to Lloyds on 30 March 2023. Ive listened to a recording of this 
call. Ive also listened to a recording of the call made to our service when he made 
his complaint. Having done so Im satisfied that it was Mr K who called Lloyds on 30 
March 2023, and not as Mr K has suggested a fraudster. During the call with Lloyds, 
amongst other things, the bank asked him some security questions about the activity 
on his account. Mr K confirmed that he had made a payment to T for £214 on that 
day. So, Im not persuaded by Mr Ks version of events, that he knows nothing about 
T, when I take into account the evidence of this phone call.
The disputed transactions reduced Mr Ks account balance and I can see that he 
logged into his mobile banking app and checked his balance during this period. I 
think he wouldve noticed the transactions much sooner than hes said he did as his 
account balance was reducing. So, I think if he hadnt authorised them, he wouldve 
raised this with the bank at the time. But he didnt alert Lloyds until after the last 
disputed transaction was made.
I also find it quite unusual that a fraudster would go to the trouble of accessing Mr Ks 
savings account and move money from it over a number of days, to another of his 
accounts in order to then make a number of payments to T. Usually a fraudster will 
try and maximise the usage of an account in order to get the greatest benefit from the 
account before the account holder notices their funds are missing and the card is 
cancelled. But this didnt happen. 
I recognise that Mr K has said that he didnt authorise the payments. But based on the 
evidence Ive looked at its hard for me to see how an unknown fraudulent third party could 
have obtained all of Mr Ks security information, bank card, mobile phone and be in Mr Ks 
normal location with all of these while making the transfers and payments. When I weigh 
everything up, on balance, the most likely explanation here is that Mr K made the disputed 
transactions himself.  So, in the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Lloyds to 
refund Mr K the disputed transactions. 
Finally, Mr K says that Lloyds should have spotted the transactions and stopped them from 
going through. So, the bank is at fault.  But the transactions were done after logging in using 
Mr Ks usual IP address, using his banking app login, via his registered mobile phone, and 
using details taken from his genuine card. Each transaction was also verified by sending a 
text message to Mr Ks mobile phone number. So, I dont consider there were any obvious 
reasons for Lloyds to suspect these transactions might not be genuine. And I cant decide he 
didnt authorise them just because Lloyds didnt block the payments. I have to look at the 
evidence, which in my view connects Mr K to the disputed transactions. And Ive set this out 
above. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman