DRN-2538551
The complaint
Mr G and Ms L complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt agree to port their mortgage. 
Theyd like it to agree to do this or compensate them for taking out a more expensive 
mortgage with another lender. They also ask for compensation for the many errors they say 
Barclays made. 
What happened
Mr G and Ms L took out an interest only mortgage with Barclays in 2008. The term was due 
to expire in 2028. They contacted Barclays in early 2019. They wanted to port their mortgage 
to a cheaper property, and reduce the balance. They planned to keep their existing house 
and use it as a holiday let. Mr G and Ms L intended to take out a holiday let mortgage with 
another lender to repay the balance of the Barclays mortgage and some unsecured debts.
Barclays declined, saying the mortgage wasnt affordable and didnt meet its lending criteria. 
Mr G and Ms L took out a residential mortgage and holiday let mortgage with another lender. 
They say this is more expensive than porting the Barclays mortgage. They also complain 
about numerous errors by Barclays, including the way it assesses income from holiday lets, 
not telling them this might be a problem and sending letters offering unsecured loans. 
Our investigator said Barclays had considered Mr G and Ms Ls porting request fairly. While 
they received letters about unsecured loans, this would have been subject to affordability 
criteria if theyd applied. Mr G and Ms L hadnt told Barclays in early 2019 they intended to 
use their existing property as a holiday let, so Barclays couldnt have told them this would 
cause an issue with porting. 
Mr G and Ms L didnt agree. Mr G said it wasnt fair for Barclays to dictate whether they 
could move or start a new business, or to override the lending decision of another lender.
Mr G asked us to provide information from Barclays, including its calculations and 
underwriters notes, and recordings of all phone calls as he said some had been omitted. 
Barclays didnt agree to provide its underwriters notes or calculations, saying they contain 
confidential information such as its lending criteria. It said it couldnt provide recordings of all 
calls as not all calls are recorded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Barclays told Mr G and Ms L why it declined their porting application, and our investigator 
gave them further information from Barclays about its lending decision. I dont think its 
reasonable to require Barclays to provide information to Mr G and Ms L which is 
commercially sensitive. I cant require Barclays to provide call recordings that it doesnt 
have. I think Mr G and Ms L have enough information about Barclays decision to comment 
on our investigators findings and provide any further comments or evidence to me. And, 
having reviewed the comments and evidence here, I think I have enough evidence to reach 
a fair decision. 
Mr G and Ms L wanted to port their mortgage with Barclays to a smaller property and reduce 
the amount they borrowed. While they wanted to reduce their loan from Barclays, because 
the new property had a lower value, the loan to value increased. Mr G and Ms L also 
intended to take out a mortgage on their existing property, and so their overall borrowing 
would increase.
While Mr G and Ms Ls mortgage was portable, the mortgage terms said this was subject to 
meeting Barclays lending criteria. 
If Mr G and Ms Ls mortgage was ported as they requested, the loan to value would have 
increased from less than 70% to 80% (or 95% on the original porting application). This would 
have changed the level of risk for Barclays  increasing the risk that the loan would exceed 
the value of the security property if there was a downwards change in the property value. 
The new loan to value didnt meet Barclays lending criteria for an interest only mortgage. 
Barclays also assessed the porting application as unaffordable for Mr G and Ms L. Mr G and 
Ms Ls plans meant increasing their monthly debt payments, and Barclays said this wasnt 
affordable given their monthly income. 
Barclays used Mr G and Ms Ls actual income in its affordability assessment, and didnt 
include potential income from using their property as a holiday let. Some lenders assess 
income from holiday lets differently  especially those offering specialist holiday let 
mortgages. But this doesnt mean Barclays isnt entitled to have its own policy, or that it 
applied its policy incorrectly. 
Mr G and Ms L were using funds from the holiday let mortgage to repay the balance of the 
Barclays mortgage, repay unsecured debts and fund the deposit for the property they were 
buying. To reduce the loan to value for the ported mortgage theyd have had to increase the 
holiday let mortgage. And Barclays had already assessed the mortgage as unaffordable due 
to Mr G and Ms Ls debt repayments.
Mr G and Ms L say Barclays didnt apply the transitional arrangements as required by the 
regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority). The provisions they refer to are exceptions to the 
usual rules on mortgage lending which allow lenders to offer or vary mortgages in certain 
circumstances despite concerns about affordability. 
However, these exceptions dont say that Barclays cant consider affordability. Barclays can 
fairly take this into account when considering whats in Mr G and Ms Ls best interests. I 
should also say that while the exception allows Barclays to agree to vary the mortgage 
despite concerns about affordability it isnt required to do so. It could still fairly decline the 
porting application for another reason. 
Despite what Mr G and Ms L have said, they werent mortgage prisoners in the usual sense. 
Mr G and Ms L didnt find themselves unable to port or vary their mortgage or take out a new 
mortgage because of changes in mortgage regulations. They wanted to borrow additional 
funds to buy a second property and use one of their properties as a business. Mr G and 
Ms L were able to borrow from another lender, which did offer specialist holiday let 
mortgages. They didnt need to port their Barclays mortgage because they didnt have other options: they wanted to port their Barclays mortgage because they wanted to keep the 
interest rate. 
I think Barclays assessed Mr G and Ms Ls application fairly. It considered whether it could 
lend at a different loan to value, or if part of the mortgage could be changed to a repayment 
basis. But ultimately the porting application didnt meet its lending criteria, and its 
assessment was that it wasnt affordable.
I dont think its reasonable or fair to say that Barclays should have waived its concerns 
about affordability and its own lending criteria so that Mr G and Ms L could buy a second 
property and start a business, while retaining the lower interest rate. 
Having listened to the call recordings, I think the discussions were quite confused. Most 
likely, Mr G and Ms L didnt know how their plans to use their property as a holiday let  and 
take out a second mortgage  would affect the way Barclays assessed their porting 
application. I think, when Mr G asked for information about porting, Barclays call handlers 
assumed Mr G and Ms L were intending to sell their property and buy a new one, as is the 
usual process. As a result, Mr G was given inconsistent and incomplete information, and I 
appreciate this was frustrating. 
However, I dont think Mr G told Barclays about their plans to keep their property and use it 
as a holiday let, or to take out a second mortgage, until April 2019. While there might have 
been a call earlier in 2019 in which Mr G or Ms L did tell Barclays about these plans, I dont 
have evidence of this. I dont think its fair to say that Barclays should have told Mr G and 
Ms L earlier how their plans would affect their porting application when it didnt know about 
them.
This wasnt a straightforward porting request. Barclays notes show it looked at different 
options to see if it could accommodate Mr G and Ms L, but unfortunately it wasnt able to do 
so. While this added to the overall time taken, I think it was the right thing to do.
Mr G and Ms L say they received marketing material from Barclays about loans. I can see 
this was frustrating in the circumstances. But this was marketing material, and any loan 
application would have been subject to checks, including affordability. 
Overall, I dont think Barclays treated Mr G and Ms L unfairly. It follows that I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Barclays to pay compensation 
to Mr G and Ms L for them having to take out a more expensive mortgage to fulfil their plans.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman