DRN-1394847
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
From the available information, it seems Mr and Mrs S took out the policy in 1993 to cover 
their monthly mortgage repayments. Lloyds cant confirm whether Mr and Mrs S were 
covered by the PPI or if just one of them was. Either way, the PPI was designed to protect 
their monthly repayments if they couldnt work due to disablement or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We've set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs S case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
The sale took place many years ago, so its not surprising that there are gaps in the 
information from the time thats still available. Ive considered the remaining evidence, 
including what Mr and Mrs S initially said about not remembering PPI being discussed or 
added. More recently, theyve suggested PPI was discussed and that they said they didnt 
want it.
In the absence of any evidence to support what Mr and Mrs S have said, I think its just as 
likely there was a conversation about PPI, and they were made aware it was optional. 
Theres nothing to show they didnt choose to take it. Given how long ago the sale took 
place, I understand if they remember things differently.
Lloyds has assessed the complaint as though it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. So, 
as well as having to give them enough information for them to make an informed choice 
about taking it, Lloyds should have looked into whether it was right for Mr and Mrs S. I dont 
know what steps Lloyds took but I think a recommendation to take the PPI was suitable for 
them in any case.
I say that because, from what Mr and Mrs S have told us about their circumstances in 1993, 
it appears they were eligible for the PPI and that it was affordable for them. And I cant, for 
instance, see that theyd have been significantly affected by the main exclusions to, or limits 
on, the cover. Mr and Mrs S say Mr S wasnt entitled to enhanced sick pay and it seems he had no savings 
he could have relied on if he was off work. On the other hand, they say Mrs S was entitled to 
relatively generous sick pay and was in stable employment. They add they had some 
property rental income. But, while Mrs S work situation seemed stable, there was no 
guarantee that would remain the case going forward. And its not clear how much they were 
getting in rental income or how reliable a source of income that was. 
The PPI, on the other hand, would have paid out for up to 12 months per claim on top of any 
other income and was guaranteed. Not least because Mr and Mrs S borrowing was secured 
against their home, I think the PPI provided them with useful extra protection.
Ive thought about the life cover Mr and Mrs S say they held. But I dont think this meant the 
PPI was unsuitable for them as it paid a regular benefit for disability or unemployment, 
whereas the life cover would have paid a lump sum benefit on the insureds death. So, they 
covered different things.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out everything it should have about the PPI. But I dont find 
that Mr and Mrs S lost out because of any failings. I say that because, for the same reasons 
I think the PPI was suitable and affordable for them, I dont think better information would 
have stopped Mr and Mrs S from buying it. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs S lost out because of how Lloyds 
sold them the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman