DRN-3214160
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Mrs O was provided with a credit card in January 2016 with a credit limit of over £5,000. She 
says the limit was too high and that had her credit file been checked Barclaycard would have 
seen that she had been using her full overdraft for a long time and had other outstanding 
debts. She also challenged the date of the default.
Barclaycard issued a final response letter in June 2021. It says Mrs O was provided with a 
credit card with a £5,200 credit limit and the limit wasnt ever increased. Barclaycard says 
that its lending decision was based on the information provided in Mrs Os application and 
the results of a credit check.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought the checks carried out were 
proportionate and that the information gathered through these didnt suggest the lending was 
unaffordable. He also thought that Barclaycard hadnt done anything wrong by recording the 
default when it had.
Mrs O didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that her credit file showed she had 
other debts and that she shouldnt have been provided such a high credit limit. She said that 
had a lower credit limit been provided she may have been able to manage it and avoid the 
default. She said the default on her credit file affected her ability to get other reasonable rate 
credit products.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs O is upset that a default was recorded on her account and she thinks 
that had Barclaycard provided a lower credit limit this may have been avoided. However, for 
me to uphold this complaint I would need to find that Barclaycard either didnt carry out 
reasonable or proportionate checks or that the information gathered showed the lending was 
unaffordable for Mrs O.
I have looked at the information gathered before the credit card was provided. This showed 
Mrs O as employed with a monthly income of £1,560. Mrs O said she was living with parents 
and details of expenses were gathered.  A credit check was carried out and this showed that 
Mrs O had other credit commitments. Having other credit commitments doesnt mean that 
further lending shouldnt be provided, so long as the commitments are taken into account 
and the new lending is still considered affordable. In this case, Mrs Os other commitments 
were recorded as £512. 
Barclaycard has said that at the time of the credit check, Mrs O was maintaining her 
accounts and there were no recent missed payments, defaults of county court judgements. 
Mrs O has mentioned her use of payday loans; however, these werent separately identified 
in the credit check undertaken by Barclaycard. I can see that on the credit report Mrs O has 
provided there were two payday loans around the time of this agreement, but these were 
both settled - one in the December and the other in January. Having considered the 
information gathered through the credit check I do not think this raised concerns that meant 
further checks were needed and as the checks didnt raise affordability concerns I do not 
think I have enough to say that Barclaycard acted irresponsibly by providing Mrs O with a 
£5,200 credit limit.
Mrs O maintained her payments for the first few months. She missed a few payments later in 
2016 but the account was brought back up to date after this. She then experienced further 
issues in 2017 and while she did reduce the arrears on her account at certain points it fell 
further into arrears and a default was recorded in February 2018. I note Mrs Os comments 
about the timing of the default, however I would expect a lender to try to work with a 
customer before applying a default and as Mrs O was making payments at certain points in 
2017 and reducing the arrears on her account I think it reasonable that time was given 
before a default was applied. As the account then fell further into arrears and Barclaycard 
had informed Mrs O of the situation and the consequences of not making payment I think it 
did what was required before recording the default in February 2018.
In conclusion, I do not find that I have enough evidence in this case to say that Barclaycard 
acted irresponsibly by providing Mrs O with a credit card account with a £5,200 limit.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman