DRN-3941037
The complaint
Mr C complains about the level of compensation he was offered by Wesleyan Assurance 
Society (Wesleyan) following its handling of concerns he raised with the renewal price of his 
home buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C contacted Wesleyan (his insurance broker) in November 2021 as he wasnt happy with 
the renewal premium hed been quoted. This was significantly higher than the previous 
years premium. Mr C asked for information to justify the increase. Wesleyans agent 
contacted the insurer whilst on the phone to Mr C via an online chat. It was explained that a 
claim from March 2021 had been a factor in the higher premium. 
Wesleyans agent wasnt able to satisfy Mr C that the increase was justified. A complaint 
was raised with the insurer during this call on Mr Cs behalf. The agent told Mr C his policy 
had renewed, and he had 17 days in which to cancel. He says he made it very clear that he 
didnt want to continue with his cover at the price quoted. 
Wesleyan says Mr C didnt cancel his policy and he didnt contact it again until the end of 
March 2022. A number of monthly premium payments had been taken by this point, which 
Mr C noticed and instigated his further contact. He made a complaint. In its response 
Wesleyan says it had listened to the last call from November 2021. In this Mr C was told his 
policy had renewed, he had a 17-day cooling off period and he should contact it once hed 
spoken with his insurer. Wesleyan offered £75 compensation for an incorrect email address 
it had for Mr C, which meant his renewal quote didnt get to him. It later increased this to 
£150.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with this outcome. Wesleyan provided a further response in June 2022. 
It says it shouldve contacted Mr C when his premium increased in November 2021. It 
confirmed this point had been fed back to the relevant team. Wesleyan also highlights a call 
it received from Mr Cs insurer on 17 December 2021. It says this call wasnt identified during 
its initial investigation. This was because the call note indicated it was a request for 
information. However, Wesleyan acknowledges this was relevant to Mr Cs concerns. 
Wesleyan subsequently agreed to refund all premiums and the cancellation fee. It offered a 
further £150 compensation for any distress and inconvenience Mr C was caused. Wesleyan 
explains the call from Mr Cs insurer was to advise the premium increase was due to the 
claim hed made in March 2021. In addition, there had been a discount applied to his policy 
previously that was not available at his renewal.      
Mr C thought Wesleyan had deliberately withheld material information. This meant he had to 
spend a lot more time dealing with the matter. So, he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He thought Wesleyan had acted reasonably and 
didnt think further compensation was justified. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. Specifically, regarding what the correct level of compensation should be in these 
circumstances.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive listened to the call recording between Mr C and Wesleyan from 29 November 2021. The 
call lasts over an hour. But the crux of Mr Cs concerns is that he had been a long-standing 
customer of both Wesleyan and his insurer. He couldnt understand why, from the 
information he had been given, his premium was increasing from around £600 to nearer 
£1,000.
During the call Wesleyans agent refers to the claim Mr C had in March 2021 likely impacting 
on his insurers risk assessment. She mentions that discounts can often change and says 
rates are linked to postcode areas. The agent confirms only one insurer from Wesleyans 
panel had offered cover. The agent then started an online chat with Mr Cs insurer. This 
didnt result in the information he wanted. Wesleyans agent relayed the information she was 
asking the insurer and raised a complaint with it on Mr Cs behalf. 
Towards the end of the call Mr C asked for an extension of two months. He says the 
insurers quote is unacceptable and he will take it up with the Financial Conduct Authority if 
he has to. Wesleyans agent explains to Mr C he has a 17-day cooling off period, during 
which he wont be liable for charges. She tells him that his policy has renewed, and that 
cover is in place. She states that Mr C should contact Wesleyan again, once he has 
discussed the matter with his insurer. 
I think its clear from what was discussed that Mr C was made aware his policy had renewed. 
It was also clear he was very unsatisfied with the increased premium. But he didnt give 
instructions for the policy to cancel. I dont think the business ought to have cancelled the 
policy based on what was discussed. Had it done so, the implications couldve been 
significant in the event of a claim.  
That said, the insurer provided some information on 17 December 2021 that was of 
relevance to Mr Cs concerns about his premium. I agree with Wesleyan that it shouldve 
contacted Mr C with this information. Its agent did explain that his claim in March, and 
changes in discounts, would likely be the reason for the premium increase. But as Mr C 
wanted this information confirmed by the insurer, I think it shouldve been communicated at 
the time it was received. 
I can see that when this call was listened to some months later, Wesleyan decided to refund 
Mr Cs renewal premiums and the cancellation charge. This was in addition to further 
compensation for inconvenience and distress. 
In considering Mr Cs complaint Ive also listened to two further calls from March and April 
2022. In these calls Mr C discusses his ongoing concerns with the cost of his premium and 
with Wesleyans investigation. He explains how he had made clear hed no intention of 
taking the higher quote and had given specific instruction not to continue with cover at the 
higher price. 
I can understand why Mr C was unhappy with the significant increase in premium. I also 
acknowledge his disappointment that hed been a customer for many years and didnt expect 
to be charged so much. However, I dont agree that Wesleyan was given instructions to cancel. This wasnt what was 
agreed during the last call in November 2021. Rather it was clear from this call that the 
policy had renewed and would continue unless Mr C contacted Wesleyan again.
I think Wesleyan acted reasonably when refunding Mr Cs premiums along with the 
cancellation fee. I accept the information it received from the insurer may have resulted in 
him cancelling his policy back in December 2021. So, this couldve saved Mr C time when 
contacting Wesleyan. I can understand that he found this frustrating. I note Mr Cs concerns 
about the call from the insurer being withheld. Wesleyan says this was an oversight due to 
how the call from the insurer was logged. I havent seen information that I think reasonably 
shows this information was deliberately withheld.   
In these circumstances its fair that Wesleyan compensates Mr C for the time he spent in 
contact with it, and for the inconvenience and frustration that resulted. But I think the amount 
it offered was fair. I can see that our investigator explained our approach to compensation. 
We will consider the impact on an individual from an omission or failing on the part of the 
business. In these circumstances, although I appreciate Mr C has a different view, 
Wesleyans offer of compensation is in-line with our approach to making such awards. 
Because of this I cant fairly ask Wesleyan to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman