DRN-3008905
The complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked access to on-line banking for his account, 
prevented him switching the account to another bank, failed to close the account on his 
request and failed to respond to complaints he made about this.
What happened
Mr N opened a bank account with Lloyds in October 2019. He says there were problems 
with his access to the account. He made a complaint about that and Lloyds gave him £100 
compensation for poor service.
Mr N says the access issues continued, with Lloyds blocking access to his account often and 
suspending his log-in details. When this happened in February 2020, he was asked to go 
into a branch with photo identification to verify his identity. He says this was the third time 
hed been asked to do so.
Mr N decided to switch his account to another bank, which was offering £100 each to the 
new customer and their referrer. However, the switch was blocked by Lloyds. Mr N had to 
transfer a small amount of money into the Lloyds account to cover monthly charges (£3 per 
month, refunded if the account was used for certain transactions).
Mr N complained to Lloyds on 2nd March 2020  and again on 6th March 2020. He says he 
had no reply to those complaints, so he brought his complaints to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. He said 
Lloyds had fairly and reasonably followed their procedure in dealing with Mr Ns account and 
his requests.
Mr N disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have provided us with a series of phone call recordings which are the key to 
understanding what happened with Mr Ns account.
After Mr N opened the account in October 2019, Lloyds blocked some transactions because 
they were concerned that someone else might be accessing and/or using the account. This 
culminated in Mr N having to go into branch to verify his identity.
Lloyds had a telephone conversation with Mr N  and his father - on 31 October 2019. Mr N 
confirmed on that call that his father had made calls to Lloyds about the account pretending 
to be Mr N himself. Mr Ns father also confirmed this.
It appears Lloyds were satisfied that there was no sinister intent in all of this. And the upshot 
of that conversation was that Mr Ns father could speak to Lloyds about the account on 
behalf of Mr N, but only where Mr N had authorised that on each particular call. 
Lloyds were clear during that conversation on 31 October 2019 that if this agreed procedure 
werent followed in future, they would have to put a block on the account.
The account was blocked  along with the switch of the account to the other bank  in late 
February.
Lloyds have provided us with a call recording from 29 February 2020. That call is clearly 
from the same person who made earlier calls (Mr Ns father). Mr Ns father pretends to be 
Mr N. Lloyds staff had suspicions that this was the case and blocked the account. Their 
suspicions were justified and, in fact, correct.
Its also clear in that call that Lloyds staff ask the caller whether hes experienced similar 
issues previously on the account. And he says he hasnt. This caused further concerns 
about the identity of the caller, since both Mr N and his father would have been well aware of 
the issues which arose - and the discussions which took place  in October of the previous 
year.
Banks have a duty to their customers to do all they can to prevent fraud or unauthorised 
access to accounts and/or information. Lloyds actions in this case are entirely in line with 
that duty. They are also standard procedure for Lloyds in cases like this  Lloyds havent 
unfairly or unreasonably singled out Mr N for unusual or oppressive treatment.
So, Im not going to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
One  Lloyds have followed standard procedures, designed to prevent fraud or unauthorised 
access, in blocking on-line access to Mr Ns account and in preventing it from being 
transferred to another bank. They were unsure that the person trying to access the account 
 or switch it  was Mr N. And in fact, they were right about that.
Two  when this issue arose in October 2019, Lloyds were very clear about how Mr N could 
authorise his father to speak to them and make requests of them on his behalf. The 
arrangement they asked Mr N to follow (authorising his father to speak on his behalf on each 
call) was a reasonable and pragmatic way forward. Mr N and his father were warned that if 
that agreement wasnt followed, Lloyds might have to block the account.
After that discussion and agreement, Mr Ns father contacted Lloyds pretending to be his 
son. This was in late February 2020. When Lloyds spoke to Mr Ns father on this occasion, 
he was clear that hed been trying to access his sons account on-line and found it to be 
blocked. Both Mr N and his father were aware of the consequences if he continued to call 
Lloyds pretending to be Mr N.
Lloyds have also been clear with Mr N from the outset that he has a relatively easy way to 
close his account and/or switch it, as he appears to want to do. He has only to make that 
request in person at a branch, with proof of identity, and Lloyds will take his instruction as to 
what to do with the account.
Lloyds have continued to charge the small monthly fee for the account. Theyre entitled to do 
that whilst it remains open. As I say, Mr N could have closed it and avoided the fees at any 
point simply by identifying himself at a Lloyds branch.I understand the local branch has closed, which makes this slightly less convenient for Mr N, 
but I cant hold Lloyds responsible for the fact he now has to verify his identity in person - 
thats the result of his fathers continued attempts to impersonate him when speaking to 
Lloyds.
Im aware that Mr N is concerned that Lloyds response to his complaint in early March 2020 
was sent to the wrong address (a house with a similar number on the same street). Lloyds 
have admitted this error, which also explains why Mr N thought they had failed to respond to 
his complaints.
Whilst I can appreciate Mr Ns concern about this, theres nothing to suggest hes suffered 
any loss or detriment as a result of the human error in addressing the letter. The letter didnt 
contain any information which might allow anyone to access the account, for example.
Mr N has said that this potential information security breach should have been reported by 
Lloyds to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). I know Mr N is aware that he can 
raise this with the ICO if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman