DRN-3905692
Complaint
Miss N has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Miss N with a loan for £3,000.00 in November 2016. This loan had 
an APR of 106.8% and a term of 30 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£6,573.30, including interest, fees and charges of £3,573.30, was due to be repaid in 30 
monthly instalments of just under £220. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss Ns complaint and she thought Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided Miss N with her loan. So she thought that Miss Ns complaint should 
be upheld. 
Everyday Loans disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ns complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Miss Ns complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it acted fairly and reasonably when lending to Miss N. 
In practice, what this means is Everyday Loans needed to find out enough about Miss N 
such that it could have a reasonable understanding of whether Miss N could afford to repay 
any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out a credit check 
and obtained bank statements before this loan was provided. The credit check showed that 
Miss N was already significantly indebted. And Miss N had outstanding balances on a 
number of payday and other high-cost loans. The bank statements also showed that this 
was a repeat occurrence rather than a one-off event. So Im not persuaded that it was 
reasonable to rely on what had been said about why Miss N had taken payday loans.
I also have concerns that the recorded purpose of this loan was debt consolidation. This is 
because Miss N was supposedly going to consolidate, at least some, debts where the total 
amount Miss N would pay was twice the amount borrowed. And the interest on this loan was 
not capped in that way. So its unclear to me how this loan, which was on such 
disadvantageous terms, was going to improve Miss Ns already precarious financial position 
going forward and how Everyday Loans could accept what Miss N said at face value in these 
circumstances.
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Miss N has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out this loan. And while its 
possible Miss Ns indebtedness reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add 
that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept   
Miss Ns version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Miss Ns existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Miss Ns circumstances would more 
like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to her. As 
Everyday Loans provided Miss N with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss N ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Miss N lost out because of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Miss N
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Miss N by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss N paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Miss N to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Miss Ns credit file, if it remains, as a 
result of this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Miss N a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ns complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman