DRN-3191163
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M, in their capacity as the directors of a limited company Ill refer to as T, 
complain that Advanced Payment Solutions trading as Cashplus wont refund transactions 
they didnt authorise.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision:
In February 2021, Mrs M received a call from someone purporting to be from BT. The 
individual gained remote access to her laptop and phone under the guise that her 
internet security had been compromised, and they needed to fix the issue. Mrs Ms 
told our service that she was genuinely experiencing internet issues at the time, so 
she followed the callers instructions and shared the information that was requested.
The fraudsters made payments totalling £72,500 from Ts Cashplus account. At one 
point, Mrs M noticed money had left the account and queried this. She was 
reassured that this was part of a test BT was doing while securing her internet, and 
the funds would come back to the account shortly. Mrs M then saw a credit for the 
same amount. Unbeknownst to her at the time, the fraudster had transferred funds 
from an account Mrs M held with another bank.
Mrs M eventually realised that shed been a victim of a scam and reported this to 
Cashplus. I understand that it was able to recover £14.45 from the beneficiary bank. 
Cashplus declined to reimburse the remaining amount as it believed that Mrs M was 
liable for the loss, given that she allowed third-party access to the account and 
shared information.
The matter was referred to our service and our investigator didnt agree with 
Cashplus that Mrs M should be held liable. Cashplus disagreed and so the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), T isnt liable for 
payments it didnt authorise, unless Mr M or Mrs M (acting on Ts behalf) failed with 
intent or gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account or keep the 
account security details safe.
The investigator concluded that the likely steps required logging into Ts account, 
entering the payment information (sort code, account number etc), entering a One 
Time Passcode (OTP) if required and confirming the payment. Cashplus hasnt 
disputed this and so Ive proceeded on the same basis. 
From the information Ive seen, I consider it more likely than not that Mrs M shared 
information she was sent by Cashplus. But I havent seen any persuasive evidence 
or arguments that it was Mrs M who completed the steps needed in order for the 
payments to be made, or that she consented to someone else doing so. As Im not 
persuaded that Mrs M completed all the agreed steps to make payments from Ts 
account, or that she consented to someone else doing so, I find that the disputed 
transactions were unauthorised.
I dont find that Mrs M failed with intent to keep her security credentials safe  she 
believed the information provided was necessary to secure her internet. So, in her 
mind, she was safeguarding her internet security.
I also dont find that Mrs M failed with gross negligence. She questioned the caller 
about why BT had contacted her when her internet was provided by another 
company. The fraudster offered an explanation which I think many people would find 
plausible, namely that her broadband was linked to the landline which relied on BTs 
interface. In this instance, I understand that Mrs Ms landline was also with BT. So, 
I can see why she felt assured and believed that she was genuinely speaking to BT. 
Mrs M was already experiencing some internet issues and the fraudsters were able 
to gain her trust before creating a situation of panic, which scams of this nature are 
often centred on. The clever fraudsters then used distraction tactics as they gained 
online access to the bank accounts and made payments. 
Cashplus has argued that Mrs M shared the OTPs with the fraudster despite it 
warning her not to. Mrs Ms told us that she no longer has the OTP messages, so I 
asked the investigator to request this information from Cashplus. Despite allowing 
additional time, this information hasnt been forthcoming. As I havent seen the actual 
content of the text containing the OTP, I cant be sure whether it was clear about 
what the OTP was for, and what warning (if any) Mrs M is likely to have seen. 
Even if I were to accept that the warning contained in the OTP text was effective, in 
the moment of being told that she needed to secure her internet from being hacked, 
I can understand why a warning not to share might have been missed, particularly 
when Mrs M thought she was talking to an expert and was led to believe that the 
steps being taken were necessary to protect against fraud. Overall, I dont think that 
Mrs M seriously disregarded an obvious risk or therefore failed with gross 
negligence. I think a lot of people would have been tricked into doing the same or 
similar thing. I dont think Mrs Ms actions fell so far below what a reasonable person 
would have done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude that Mrs M, on 
behalf of T, isnt liable for the transactions in dispute and Cashplus needs to put 
things right.
Cashplus has argued that it shouldnt be held liable for lost funds that originally came 
from another bank. But as the investigator explained, and I agree, Ts complaint is 
about Cashplus. Ive concluded that the disputed transactions on Ts account were 
unauthorised. Ive also concluded that Mrs M didnt fail with intent or gross 
negligence to keep her security details safe. So, under the relevant regulations, 
Cashplus needs to refund the full loss from the unauthorised transactions and 
interest to compensate B for the loss of use of those funds. Putting things right
To put things right, Cashplus needs to:
reimburse T the unauthorised transactions totalling £72,500 (less the amount 
recovered, if applicable).
for reimbursed transactions that were funded by transfers from another bank 
account, add simple interest at the rate payable on the account where the funds were 
transferred from (less any tax properly deductible). I can see that the interest rate 
information has already been provided to Cashplus.
for the remaining reimbursed transactions, add simple interest at 8% per year (less 
any tax lawfully deductible).
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman