DRN-1801107
 
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt do enough to 
protect it from fraudulent activity on its bank account.
What happened
The director of S says he was contacted a number of times by someone pretending to be 
from RBS. And that on 12 February 2020 he told RBS that an attempted transaction using 
his debit card for S was fraudulent. The card was blocked but he then found that on 14 
February 2020 a fraudster had been able to make a payment for £2,750 using telephone 
banking. RBS refunded the money to S on 18 February 2020 and paid compensation of £50. 
But S didnt think it had done enough.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that RBS had 
thought that the account for S was secured on 12 February 2020 when it had cancelled the 
card and issued a new one. The disputed payment was only possible because the fraudster 
was able to pass security checks on the telephone. It wasnt established that the two 
incidents were linked. RBS had accepted it couldnt prevent all fraudulent activity and here 
had refunded the money and paid compensation as a gesture of goodwill. He thought it had 
taken reasonable steps and even if there had been further measures it wasnt clear that 
these would have been successful. He said that as the complaint was by S, which was 
legally separate to the director, he couldnt consider any distress caused to the director 
personally. There was clearly some inconvenience when online banking was blocked but he 
thought that this was a necessary step. And S could still access its account in other ways.
S didnt agree. The director said that RBS was aware that someone was trying to access its 
account and he didnt know what more he could have done. He trusted that there would 
have been extra protection on the account when he reported fraud the first time. A new 
payee had been added to the account without confirmation from S and an authorisation 
code. He said the password should have been changed and he was considering legal routes 
if he didnt get sufficient compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that S has been the victim of fraud and there were ongoing attempts to 
access its details. I dont doubt that the actions of the fraudster were frustrating and stressful 
for the director. Here I need to think about what RBS did and the impact on S.
Its clear that following a fraudulent attempt to use the debit card of S it was cancelled on 12 
February 2020. And I dont doubt that the director would then have referred to nuisance calls 
hed been getting from someone trying to impersonate RBS. There was no evidence then 
though that details other than that of the card for S had been compromised. And thats 
because the director has consistently said he doesnt know how someone has found out any 
of the security details. 
It is clearly unfortunate that this somehow did happen and that someone was able to pose as 
the director and make a payment. Im satisfied that this person needed the online banking 
number and the passcode and would have needed to pass other elements of security. It is 
clear that codes sent at that time to the directors phone about the new payment werent 
provided by him to authorise it. That doesnt mean though that someone in possession of 
other security information couldnt authorise a payment. And given what seems to be the 
extent of the compromise of information Im not persuaded that adding extra questions would 
necessarily have been effective.
RBS will generally refund payments that are shown to be fraudulent, so it bears the risk of 
them. Im afraid its systems wont identify every attempt and that fraudsters are becoming 
increasingly sophisticated. Where security information has been compromised in some way 
as here, it makes distinguishing genuine payments more difficult. And Id expect its actions 
to be proportionate to what it knew.
Im afraid I think that its actions were reasonable here, even though they didnt prevent a 
fraud. S hasnt lost out financially but has been inconvenienced and in my view thats down 
to the fraudster. So, with that in mind Im not persuaded that RBS has made a mistake or 
acted unreasonably. I know the director will be disappointed when I say I wont be asking it 
to do any more than it has already. S is free to take legal action if it doesnt accept my 
decision subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman