DRN-3304231
The complaint
Mr J is complaining Sabre Insurance Company Limited has charged him an additional 
premium after cancelling his car insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr J took out a car insurance policy through a broker to insure him and his 
daughter. The policy was provided by Sabre. The policy renewed in May 2020. 
Unfortunately, after the renewal, his daughter was involved in a minor accident with a third 
party. The third party claimed for the damage to their car on Mr Js car insurance policy. 
Sabre settled the third partys claim, but it said Mr J had misrepresented his daughters 
circumstances when he took out the policy. Hed said his daughter had a provisional licence 
and was a full-time student. However, she had a full driving licence and also a second 
occupation as a sales assistant. It said it would have charged around £5,800 extra over the 
two policies had it known his daughters true circumstances. So it said he needed to pay this.
Mr J didnt think this was fair. Sabre said it would cancel the insurance policy if he didnt pay 
this. Mr J didnt do so, so Sabre cancelled the policy. It said he still owed around £300 on the 
original premium, so it said he owed around £6,100. 
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 upholding this complaint and I said the 
following:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes  as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, its entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation.
Sabre set out the information it required in its statement of fact. In this, it asked what type of 
licence Mr J and his daughter had. It also asked whether either of them had an additional 
occupation. Theres no dispute Sabre was incorrectly told Mr Js daughter had a provisional 
licence, when she actually had a full licence. Further to this, its also not disputed she had a 
secondary occupation, but Sabre was told she didnt have one.
Mr J took this policy out through a broker. It was the brokers responsibility to provide the 
information on Mr Js behalf. So it needed to ask clear questions to ensure it presented the 
correct information to the insurer. If Mr J doesnt think the broker did so, hell need to raise 
this with the broker directly.
Sabre has shown it would have charged an increased premium had it known the true 
situation. So Im satisfied theres a qualifying misrepresentation. Ive now thought about what 
remedies were available to Sabre.
I dont think Mr J did this deliberately  I think this was a simple mistake. But CIDRA would 
consider this misrepresentation to be careless. Sabre has said the same. As I said above, 
CIDRA sets out the remedies available to Sabre in these circumstances. Where a 
misrepresentation is found to be careless, in summary, it allows insurers to do the following: 
If it would not have provided the insurance policy on any terms, the insurer may avoid 
the contract and refuse all claims, but it must return the premiums paid.
If the insurer would have provided the insurance policy, but on different terms, it can in 
effect amend the terms of the contract to reflect what the contract would have said.
In addition, if the insurer would have provided the insurance policy, but would have 
charged a higher premium, the insurer may reduce proportionately the amount to be paid 
on a claim.
It can cancel the contract of insurance.
The key point here is that CIDRA doesnt say the insurer can charge an additional premium. 
So in requiring Mr J to pay an additional premium, Sabre acted outside of its rights under 
CIDRA. That said, there are circumstances where it may be fair for an insurer to give a 
consumer an option to pay the additional premium. But it cant insist that they do so. So I 
dont think Sabre has treated Mr J fairly in insisting he pay the additional premium. However, 
Ive also thought about whether Mr J has lost out as a result of this.
Mr J has entered into two separate insurance contracts in this case  an initial contract when 
he first took out the insurance policy and a second contract when the policy renewed. There 
was a qualifying misrepresentation at the start of each contract. Ive set out why I think that 
was the case when Mr J first applied for the policy. When the policy renewed, Mr J was 
asked to check the information Sabre held was correct and let it know if any of the 
information was incorrect, but he didnt do so.
Ive considered the remedies available to Sabre for each contract. The first contract 
continued to the end with no claims made. So Sabre hasnt paid out anything under the 
policy. Sabre believes its entitled to charge the additional premium to reflect what Mr J 
would have paid if it had the correct information. But, as I said, CIDRA doesnt give this as a 
remedy available. So I dont think it was fair for it to say Mr J needed to pay an additional 
premium for this policy.
Regarding the renewed policy, Sabre settled a third partys claim. Sabre has said, it was 
entitled to reduce this claim proportionately, but I disagree. CIDRA says the insurer may 
reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim. It doesnt specify that this only 
applies to specific sections of a policy.
I think it would be useful to explain under what capacity Sabre was required to settle the third 
partys claim. The terms of the policy say Sabre may cover Mr Js liability for any liability he, or anyone insured under the policy, may have towards a third party. The key point here is 
that it is still Mr J claiming here. CIDRA sets out that Sabre could proportionately reduce the 
amount Sabres required to pay of Mr Js potential liability to the third party  i.e. it wasnt 
required to cover the full liability. That said, I recognise there are certain other legal 
responsibilities (such as its responsibilities under the Road Traffic Act) that may have 
required Sabre to settle the claim in full. However, the terms of Mr Js policy also set out 
Sabre could recover the extra it paid the third party. So Im satisfied Sabre was entitled to 
either decide to only pay a proportion of the third partys claim and leave the third party to 
pursue Mr J directly or to recover the extra it paid directly from Mr J had it chosen to do so. 
However, in some circumstances, it may be fairer for an insurer to charge an additional 
premium rather than reduce the value of the claim  as Sabre did here. But this would be at 
the insurers discretion and shouldnt put Mr J in a worse position. 
In this case, Sabre has said the additional premium its requiring Mr J to pay for the renewed 
policy is around £1,600. However, it only paid out around £800 to the third party. So, had it 
proportionately reduced its liability in line with its rights under CIDRA, it seems to me Mr J 
would have owed around £481 (I think Mr J had paid around 41% of the total premium 
payable). So I do think Mr J has lost out here and I think he should only have to pay Sabre 
£481.
However, CIDRA also entitled Sabre to cancel the insurance policy. Sabre gave Mr J option 
to pay an additional premium to enable him to continue with the policy, which I think was fair. 
However, it shouldnt have required him to pay £5,800, but the additional premium payable 
on the renewed policy  i.e. around £1,600. However, Im not persuaded Mr J would have 
been willing to pay this either to keep the policy continuing. So I think the policy was always 
going to be cancelled.
Given Sabre settled a claim on the policy, the terms of the policy set out that the full annual 
premium is payable, even though the policy didnt go full term. This is a standard term in 
most annual insurance policies and its not unfair they say this. So it was fair for Sabre to say 
Mr J needed to pay the remaining amount he owed towards the annual premium, which I 
understand was around £305.67. Given this, I think Sabre should reduce the amount Mr J 
owes to £782.
However, I think this matter has caused Mr J a lot of distress and inconvenience. I can 
imagine it must have been distressing to be told he had to suddenly pay over £6,000. That 
said, Mr J does have to accept some responsibility for whats happened here as it was 
ultimately his initial mistake in providing incorrect information that has resulted in the 
situation hes found himself in. But, I do think Sabre could have minimised this impact had it 
acted fairly in line with what Ive set out above. So I think it should pay him £150 in 
compensation.
Sabre accepted my provisional. But J acknowledged hed received the decision but said he 
didnt have anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything further to think about, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and 
require Sabre Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Reduce the amount its requiring Mr J to pay for the misrepresentation to £782*; and
2. Pay Mr J £150 in compensation.
Sabre can offset the compensation it owes Mr J against the amount he owes
if it chooses to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman