DRN-1841552
The complaint
Mr E complains that ERGO Travel Insurance Services Ltd declined his claim against his 
travel insurance policy. Reference to ERGO includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
Mr E took out a single trip travel insurance policy for a trip to Australia. A few days after his 
arrival, Mr E had what he described as a constant ache and intermittent sharp pain in his 
legs. He saw a GP who referred him for an MRI scan of his left thigh, which didnt reveal 
anything untoward. The GP then referred him for an x-ray, which revealed degenerative 
changes in his hip which required a hip replacement. 
I understand that the cost of Mr Es GP consultations and x-ray were covered by medicare, a 
reciprocal health agreement which provides limited, subsidised health services for medically 
necessary treatment for British citizens visiting Australia on a British passport. Mr E had to 
pay for the MRI, which he sought to claim under his policy. 
ERGO declined Mr Es claim. It said that whilst in Australia, treatment must be under the 
reciprocal health agreement. ERGO said that the policy didnt cover non-emergency medical 
treatment in a private medical facility or medical treatment which could have been sought in 
the UK before or after the trip. 
Mr E says that he considered the matter a medical emergency, so he went to the GP who 
referred him for an MRI. He questions what he could have done differently at any stage.     
Mr E wants ERGO to pay his claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that ERGO had 
treated Mr E unfairly in declining the claim. The investigator said that there is no medical 
evidence to show an immediate need for treatment, so the MRI costs werent covered under 
the policy. 
Mr E didnt agree with the investigator. He said that only he could determine whether he was 
confronted with an emergency, that no private facility was involved and that he couldnt have 
sought treatment before he left the UK as the emergency occurred in Australia. There were 
further exchanges between Mr E and the investigator. The investigator didnt change his 
view. Mr E asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which is as 
follows:
Section 3a
Emergency Medical & Repatriation Expenses
[]
What is covered:
We will pay up to the amount shown on the table of benefits for each insured person who 
suffers sudden and unforeseen bodily injury, or illness, [] during a trip outside your 
home country for the following:
a) medical expenses [] for the immediate needs of an unforeseen medical emergency 
when deemed necessary by a recognised doctor and agreed by our medical 
officer
The policy also provides that if Mr E requires medical treatment in Australia, he must enrol 
with a local medicare office. 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that ERGO has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr Es complaint because I dont think that ERGO treated him unfairly. I 
say that because:
The policy is a travel insurance policy, not private medical insurance policy: it covers 
certain costs in  a medical emergency. 
I dont agree with Mr Es assertion that its for him to decide if the claim in dispute 
arose from a medical emergency. The policy provides that a recognised doctor and 
ERGOs own medical officer decide whats necessary to treat a medical emergency.  
Ive seen nothing to show that either the GP who treated Mr E or ERGOs medial 
officer considered that the MRI was a necessary expense for the immediate needs of 
an unforeseen medical emergency. I dont doubt what Mr E says about the pain he 
was in and I can quite understand why he wanted to have the matter investigated, 
but in the circumstances that arose here, any medical expenses not covered by 
medicare are at Mr Es expense.  
I dont think I need to address whether Mr Es treatment was in a public or private 
hospital or clinic, as it wouldnt alter the outcome. The central issue is that the policy 
covers certain medical expenses in a medical emergency and, based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think that ERGO was wrong to conclude that this wasnt a medical 
emergency. My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr E but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman