DRN-3038184
Complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse him after he told it hed fallen victim 
to a scam.
Background
Mr P has an account with Monzo. In August 2020, he saw an advert for a used car and 
made enquiries. I understand he met the seller, viewed the car and decided he was happy to 
go ahead with the purchase. He used his Monzo account to pay a £100 deposit on 26 
August 2020 and the balance of £10,000 on 30 August.
When Mr P attempted to make the payment, he received a warning on the Monzo app telling 
him that it had failed a Confirmation of Payee check  that is, the name he gave on his 
payment instruction didnt match the one on the account he was paying. He clarified the 
account details with the seller and then processed the payment. 
Shortly after collecting and using the vehicle, Mr P discovered that the car had a device 
attached which meant that the mileage displayed on its odometer was most likely inaccurate. 
He contacted the seller and explained that he wanted a refund. The seller refused. He said 
that he wasnt the only person to have owned the car and that he hadnt been responsible for 
fitting the device. 
He contacted Monzo and asked it to help. It said it wouldnt refund the payment because it 
didnt accept that Mr P had fallen victim to a scam. Instead, it said that this was a civil 
dispute between him and the seller of the car. Mr P was unhappy with this response, so he 
referred a complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. 
The Investigator agreed that this was likely a civil dispute and so Monzo wasnt required to 
refund the payment. 
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said that he didnt realise that the payment 
was being made to a business account, rather than a private individual. If hed known that, 
he wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment.
Because Mr P disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion that this should be treated as a 
civil dispute rather than a scam. 
I should be clear at the outset that Im only considering whether Monzo has met its 
obligations in its interactions with Mr P. That doesnt mean that the seller of the car hasnt 
done anything wrong or that Mr P isnt entitled to redress from them directly. I cant make 
any finding on that point, but Mr P may want to take independent legal advice to explore his 
options.
Under the relevant regulations and codes of practice that apply to this case, Monzo is 
expected (subject to certain conditions being met) to refund its customers if they fall victim to 
a scam.  However, its not required to do so in response to a civil dispute.
The key thing I need to consider here is what the intentions of the seller of the car were. The 
device fitted to the car alters the reading on the odometer. Theres a good chance any 
assurance Mr P was given about the mileage of this car wasnt accurate  but that doesnt 
automatically mean that this was a scam. I have no way of knowing for sure whether the 
device was fitted by the seller or the seller knew about it. On the balance of probabilities, I 
cant say that the seller had a clear intention to deceive or defraud Mr P.
Its also significant that the other evidence thats been provided doesnt suggest the seller 
was a scammer either. The investigator requested information from the sellers bank account 
which showed that no other reports had been made alleging fraud and that the account was 
used in a way that was consistent with it being operated by a used-car business. 
Mr P says that he thought he was dealing with a private individual selling a car, rather than a 
limited company. He also claims that the seller lied about the circumstances that led to the 
vehicle being sold. He says that this evidence shows that he was scammed and that if 
Monzo had warned him about this, he wouldnt have made the payments. 
Ive considered this point carefully, but Im not persuaded by it. Mr P might find it unusual 
that the car would be sold in that way, but I dont think its relevant in terms of determining 
whether the seller had intended to scam him.  
Im also not persuaded that Mr P wouldve opted against making the payment if hed known 
that he was paying a company. Ive seen copies of the messages he exchanged with the 
seller which show that, when he attempted to make a payment, the name of the intended 
recipient didnt match that on the account he was paying. He queried this with the seller and 
speculated that it might be a business account. The seller said that the account was his  
but its not clear whether he was describing it as his personal account or an account of a 
company of which he was a director.
But Mr P did receive a warning that the account details didnt match. Its not clear how much 
detail wouldve been displayed on that warning, but he already thought there was a chance 
he was paying a company account anyway and was happy to proceed with the payment. 
I find it very unlikely that hed have chosen to not go ahead with the purchase if Monzo had 
specifically told him the account was controlled by a limited company, rather than a private 
individual.
Mr P obviously feels very strongly about the outcome of this case and I sympathise with his 
position. Hes spent a significant sum of money on the car, but if it was described in a 
misleading or inaccurate way, it would be appropriate for him to take that up directly with the 
seller of the car.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman