DRN-2377202
The complaint
Mr S complained that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down his motor insurance claim and 
voided his policy. 
What happened
Mr S and his son visited a car dealership on 29 June 2019 and Mr Ss son bought a car. 
Mr S bought a five-day Driveaway Insurance Policy from Aviva, with him as the main policy 
holder, at the car dealership on 30 June 2019. Mr S had a car accident while driving the car 
home from the dealership on the same day and so submitted a claim to Aviva. 
Aviva declined Mr Ss claim and avoided his policy, effective from the start date. It said 
information provided by Mr S was misrepresented, namely that he was not the owner and 
registered keeper of the insured vehicle. It said this meant Mr S didnt have an insurable 
interest in the car. Aviva said all insurance premiums would be returned to Mr S, less any 
costs incurred by it. 
Aviva said it was no longer willing to offer cover to Mr S and said he had a duty to disclose 
the policy avoidance and declined claim to any future insurer. It said Mr Ss details may be 
loaded onto fraud databases and it may share details of this matter with fraud prevention 
agencies. 
Mr S arranged for repairs to the car to be carried out in July 2019, at a cost of around 
£4,750. He also complained to Aviva about it avoiding the policy and declining the claim. 
Aviva responded on 21 August 2019. It said when Mr S first made the claim, he said his son 
was the owner and the registered keeper of the car and that funds to purchase the car were 
transferred from his sons account. So it said its underwriters made the correct decision, 
namely that there was a misrepresentation. However, it apologised for spelling Mr Ss name 
incorrectly and offered £75 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr S was unhappy with Avivas response and complained to this service. He said it does not 
say in the relevant paperwork issued by Aviva that the registered keeper or owner is the only 
person who can take out the policy. He said although his son paid for the car and is the 
registered keeper, the car is jointly owned by them. Mr S said he also wants any negative 
comments about him or his son to be removed from the insurance register or other registers, 
like the fraud prevention register. 
Our investigator initially upheld Mr Ss complaint. He said Aviva wasnt able to provide 
details of the questions asked of Mr S during the application process and this meant he 
couldnt know what information Mr S was asked to provide. Our investigator looked at the 
documentation provided to Mr S when he took out the policy and said he couldnt see where 
this says the policy holder has to be the owner of the car. Our investigator asked Aviva to 
cover the costs of the repairs already carried out by Mr S and to pay simple interest of 8% 
from 22 July 2019. He also suggested £500 compensation. 
Aviva did not agree with what our investigator said, so this came to me to review. 
I contacted Aviva and asked it to provide the information earlier requested by our 
investigator, namely details of any questions asked of Mr S during the application process. I 
said that in order for me to know if Mr S made a misrepresentation, I first of all needed to 
know what questions he was asked. 
Aviva responded and provided a screenshot of the question it says Mr S was asked during 
the application process, to confirm if he or his partner were the legal owners of the vehicle. 
Our investigator considered this new information, issued a second assessment and didnt 
uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said in light of the new evidence provided by Aviva, he could 
see that it asked a clear question about ownership of the car during the application process. 
And this was answered incorrectly by Mr S. Our investigator said Aviva would not have 
offered cover if it had known Mr S wasnt the legal owner of the vehicle. So Aviva hadnt 
acted unfairly by voiding the policy and declining the claim. Our investigator said he took into 
consideration what Mr S said about wanting to share ownership and usage of the car with 
his son, but said this didnt change the fact that Aviva wouldnt have offered cover as he 
wasnt the legal owner. 
Mr S was unhappy with the outcome. He provided a statement signed in November 2020 by 
both Mr S and his son stating that they own the car jointly. As Mr S doesnt agree with the 
outcome, I will now issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
I want to first of all acknowledge that Ive looked at all of the information Mr S provided about 
ownership of the car. And while I realise it might have been Mr Ss intention to share usage 
of the car with his son, I am satisfied that Aviva acted fairly when it said it was Mr Ss son 
who was the legal owner of the car and so it was his son who had an insurable interest in the 
car. I say this because Mr S has acknowledged that his son transferred money from his own 
bank account to pay for the car and his son is also the registered keeper. Having listened to 
one of the phone calls from Mr S to Aviva, I can see that he said he and his son tried to put 
the policy in his sons name, but they were only able to get a policy in Mr Ss name. So Im 
satisfied it was for this reason that Mr S insured the car in his name. 
Ive looked at any relevant questions, in this case about car ownership, asked by Aviva, 
at the application stage. And this is to see whether I think any questions asked were 
worded clearly enough for Mr S to know what information he was being asked to provide. 
And Im satisfied the one question asked by Aviva about ownership of the vehicle was 
clearly worded. When Mr S applied for the policy, he was asked some questions about the vehicle he 
wanted to insure and was then asked to tick a box to confirm that he or his partner were 
the legal owners of the car. Aviva said that Mr S ticked this box, meaning he confirmed 
that either he or his partner were the owner. But, as I said earlier, Im satisfied Mr S was 
not the owner of the vehicle and this means Im satisfied Mr S made a misrepresentation 
when he applied for the policy with Aviva. 
Aviva said that it would not have offered Mr S an insurance policy for the car if it had 
known he wasnt the owner. It said any consumer has to have an insurable interest in the 
vehicle they are insuring before Aviva will offer cover. So Im satisfied that the 
misrepresentation made by Mr S was a qualifying misrepresentation, in that it made a 
difference to what cover Aviva would have offered. And as Aviva would never have 
offered cover to Mr S, Im satisfied it acted fairly when it voided the policy from the outset 
 so treated the policy as if it never existed  and declined the claim.
Mr S was also concerned that his name might have been placed on a fraud database by 
Aviva. But its confirmed this isnt the case. So I dont need to look into this complaint 
point any further. 
Mr S also said he felt there was a delay in Aviva letting him know that it wouldnt settle the 
claim. But I cant see that this was the case. Aviva told Mr S that it wouldnt be paying the 
claim around ten days after the accident. And I can see that during this time it was taking 
steps to look into the question of who the legal owner of the car was. So I dont agree that 
there were unnecessary delays. 
Mr S mentioned that he and his son were guided by the dealership in taking out the policy 
and he said the dealership knew the car was registered in his sons name, but Mr S was 
taking out the insurance policy. He said they werent given any guidance by the dealership. 
This decision deals only with the complaint against Aviva. If Mr S wants to take out a 
complaint against the dealership, then he will need to look into that separately. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman