DRN-3610120
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with her experience when she tried to withdraw from a loan agreed by 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
Miss H applied for a loan from Nationwide in February 2022. Nationwide agreed to provide 
the loan, issued documentation and deposited the loan proceeds into Miss Hs nominated 
account.
Shortly after, Miss H changed her mind and decided she no longer needed the loan. 
Nationwides loan agreement allowed her 14 days to withdraw from the loan and return the 
proceeds. Miss H checked Nationwides website which said she could withdraw from the 
loan either by calling them or visiting a branch.
Due to Miss Hs personal circumstances, she wasnt able to call Nationwide during their 
usual opening hours. So, she chose to visit her local branch at a weekend. But the branch 
staff were unable to arrange the loan withdrawal. They said they didnt have access to the 
necessary systems. Miss H wasnt happy with Nationwides response and was concerned 
that failure to complete the withdrawal may result in her incurring interest costs. So, she 
asked to raise a complaint.
Having returned home from the branch, Miss H wasnt confident her complaint would be 
investigated properly. So, she contacted Nationwide using their online chat facility. They 
arranged for the loan to be withdrawn and Miss H transferred the loan proceeds back to 
them. Nationwide also agreed to raise a complaint for her recognising she was unhappy with 
the information given on their website resulting in a wasted journey to a branch and the 
associated costs.
Nationwide responded to Miss Hs complaint a few days later. They said their staff within the 
branch were unable to access the required system to withdraw her loan, so they suggested 
Miss H call their Personal Loan Team. But the telephone lines werent open at weekends. 
They accepted this as poor service and agreed the information on their website needed 
reviewing. Nationwide apologised for Miss Hs experience and offered compensation of £50. 
They also agreed to reimburse Miss Hs parking costs if she provided details of the amount.
Miss H remained unhappy with Nationwides response and sent an email to them. She was 
unhappy with how theyd handled her complaint. She didnt think theyd addressed all her 
points. In particular, she wasnt happy with how the branch had dealt with her complaint and 
also the short timescale she was given to accept their proposed resolution. She didnt think 
the compensation amount was enough.
Miss H decided to refer her complaint to this service. Having looked at all the information 
available, our investigator thought Nationwides response to Miss Hs complaint was fair and 
reasonable. 
Miss H didnt agree with our investigators findings. She said:
Nationwide still had inaccurate information on their website; and
their lack of response to her email was unacceptable; and
she hadnt been provided with evidence of the branchs investigation; and
the poor service meant that she wasted hours of her time.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Miss Hs complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I believe its important to explain the role of this service when considering Miss 
Hs complaint here. 
It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any business. Its also 
not our role to ask a business to alter their policies or processes or impose improvements on 
the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the 
regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether Nationwide have been fair and reasonable 
in the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Miss Hs experience with them. When considering her complaint, Ive also 
considered any relevant rules and regulations where they apply.
Nationwide agree Miss H didnt receive the level of service theyd expect in these 
circumstances. So, I dont propose to explore this aspect any further. My investigation has 
focussed upon whether the resolution offered by Nationwide is fair and reasonable here.
Much of what Miss H has complained about relates to the way that Nationwide handled her 
complaint. In particular when she attempted to raise this during her visit to the local branch. I 
do appreciate Miss Hs frustrations. However, I must set an expectation about what we can 
and cant consider here.
The rules and guidance about what this service can consider are set out in the FCAs 
Handbook  in particular the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP). These say that this service 
is only able to consider complaints about a financial service  in this case the provision and 
subsequent attempted withdrawal of a loan. The DISP rules do not allow this service to 
consider complaints about the way in which Nationwide handled Miss Hs complaint as that 
isnt in itself a financial service  albeit it stems from one. 
So, Im only able to consider the impact on Miss H of the problems she experienced in 
withdrawing from her loan. I agree that Nationwides website appears to be inaccurate about 
what Miss H could do at a branch. And accepting Miss Hs later point that Nationwide 
havent updated their website, that also doesnt fall within this services remit. Nationwides 
policies and procedures can only be considered by the FCA.
It seems clear that Miss H made an unnecessary journey to her Nationwide branch, although 
it appears she was ultimately successful in withdrawing from her loan by other means and 
wasnt financially disadvantaged. Nationwide have accepted they got it wrong. Theyve 
apologised, offered compensation of £50 and also offered to reimburse parking costs. We're 
all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and its not unusual to experience a 
certain level of frustration and minor annoyance when dealing with financial businesses. But 
for me to make an award, Id need to see that the impact of a Nationwides mistake was 
more than someone would expect to experience in everyday life.Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. Miss H did experience some inconvenience. But I think the 
amount offered here feels fair in all the circumstances. I appreciate that Miss H doesnt 
agree. But it isnt the role of this service to make awards in order to penalise Nationwide for 
their mistakes here. Any award is considered based upon the impact their mistake had upon 
Miss H. And while I realise Miss H will be disappointed, I think Nationwides offer does that. 
So, I wont be asking them to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman