DRN-3165341
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wouldnt agree to his request for a charge 
back refund.
What happened
On 16 March 2021, Mr P paid £2,000 on his Visa debit card to buy a second-hand car. He 
traded in his existing car in part exchange. He found the new car to be defective, and not as 
described by the seller. In May 2021, he lodged a charge back claim with Lloyds. Lloyds 
asked Mr P for an expert report on the condition of the car, and evidence that hed returned 
the car to the seller, or tried to do so. This needed to be done within 120 days  14 July 
2021. Mr P didnt agree to send this information to Lloyds.
Mr P complained that the car hed bought was defective and wasnt as advertised by its 
seller. He described how the car was in very bad condition, had many faults and couldnt be 
driven. It also didnt have only one owner  as the seller claimed. He said the seller was 
untrustworthy. Mr P didnt want to return the car to the seller  he said it was the duty of the 
seller to take it back. And it also meant he would be left without a car himself  because his 
old car had been taken in part exchange. Hed had a lot of problems opening Lloyds emails 
about his claim - which was inconvenient. During our investigation, he said that hed 
previously been told by Lloyds that his Visa debit card gave the same charge back rights as 
a Visa credit card  which he said was wrong.
On 22 June 2021, Lloyds said that under Visas charge back scheme rules, they must show 
Visa that the car had been returned to the seller. And Mr P didnt want to do that. Lloyds had 
120 days from the day the car was bought to ask Visa for a refund  14 July 2021. Lloyds 
apologised for the problems that Mr P had had in accessing their emails and for this, offered 
compensation of £20.
Mr P brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Lloyds had acted fairly. Visas charge 
back scheme is a voluntary one. As part of Visas rules, Lloyds had to show that Mr P had 
returned the car to the seller and provide an expert report on the car. Because Mr P hadnt 
provided either of those, Lloyds couldnt ask Visa for a refund. Lloyds needed the evidence 
in order that they could submit a claim to Visa  but because Mr P hadnt provided that, they 
couldnt do so. Lloyds had followed Visas rules, and so had acted reasonably.
Mr P didnt agree. He sent to us a detailed account of the cars defects and why it wasnt as 
advertised by the seller. He asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Charge backs are run by the card schemes, in this case, Visa. They are voluntary schemes 
 so in other words, Visa arent obliged to agree to refunds in every case. Not unreasonably, 
they need evidence to be provided about a dispute and have set out strict rules for what they 
need to support a claim. And the card issuer of the Visa card  in this case, Lloyds  must 
get the information needed by Visa in order to submit a claim on behalf of their customer, in 
this case  Mr P.
Let me be clear  its not for me to agree to Mr Ps claim or ask Visa to pay it. Mr Ps 
complaint is about Lloyds role in his claim. And thats where our service comes in  we look 
at how Lloyds dealt with Mr Ps claim and ask whether they acted within the rules that are 
set down by Visa.
I can see that Mr P lodged his claim with Lloyds in May 2021. Lloyds then needed to 
consider what they needed to put forward a case to Visa. In line with Visas rules, they asked 
for an expert report and evidence that Mr P had returned, or tried to return, the car to the 
seller. Ive looked at Visas rules  and Lloyds were correct here. The rules say that where a 
cardholder (Mr P) disputes the quality of merchandise or services received,..(Visa 
require)the date the cardholder returned or attempted to return the merchandise(and) 
then name of the shipping companythe date the merchant received the 
merchandise(and)evidence to prove that the merchandise or service matched what was 
described The rules also state that the claim had to be made within 120 days of the 
purchase. 
Therefore, I can see that Lloyds acted in line with Visas rules. They asked Mr P to return the 
car, and to provide an expert report - within 120 days of its purchase. They needed that to 
send to Visa. I appreciate that Mr P has argued why it wasnt possible to return the car  and 
says it wasnt his responsibility. I have also seen his detailed comments on the defects with 
the car  but the overriding point here is that Lloyds needed to comply with Visas rules. It 
wasnt the role of Lloyds to make a judgement on the validity of Mr Ps claim  that was 
Visas responsibility. And  if Lloyds didnt have the information needed from Mr P, they 
couldnt send a claim to Visa. I would also say that in my experience, without such 
information, any claim that Lloyds might have put forward would have failed  as the Visa 
rules are strictly followed.
During our investigation, Mr P said he was told previously by Lloyds that the charge back 
rights on a Visa debit card are different to those on a Visa credit card. And therefore he said 
 if hed used his credit card for the purchase, things couldve worked out in his favour. We 
havent investigated that aspect here  as it wasnt included in his original complaint to either 
Lloyds or us. But if Mr P wants to pursue this, he will have to approach Lloyds with a new 
complaint.
I appreciate that Mr P feels strongly that he has been misled by the seller of the vehicle, and 
that Lloyds havent helped him. But, for the reasons Ive described, I think Lloyds did what 
they could  and therefore, I wont be asking them to do anymore here. If Mr P wishes to 
receive Lloyds offer of compensation of £20, he should contact them to arrange payment.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman