DRN-3299500
The complaint
Mr E complains that UK Credit Limited (UKC) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. 
In my decision I said;
Mr E was given a single loan by UKC in January 2020. He borrowed £2,500 that he 
agreed to repay in 24 monthly instalments. The loan was guaranteed by a relative. It 
appears that Mr E has faced some problems repaying his loan and a balance 
remained outstanding when he made his complaint.
UKC gathered some information from Mr E before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. It checked his credit file to assess 
how much he was repaying to other creditors and how hed managed credit in the 
past. And it looked at Mr Es bank statements for the month before to verify some of 
the information hed provided about his finances
Mr E was entering into a significant commitment with UKC. He would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of two years. So I think it was right that UKC wanted 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Es financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described 
above were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that UKCs checks were 
proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs 
to react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial 
situation. Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan 
application outright. So Ive looked at the results of UKCs checks to see whether it 
made a fair lending decision.
 
Mr E initially told UKC that he intended to the loan to purchase a laptop computer 
and for some home improvements. But after discussing some of his outstanding 
credit with UKC he decided that he would use the majority of the loan to refinance 
two outstanding debts  a revolving credit account and a guarantor loan. I think it was 
reasonable for UKC to rely on what Mr E had said, and so discount the repayments 
on those two credit facilities when assessing the disposable income that Mr E had 
available to repay the loan.
The credit check results showed that Mr E had struggled to manage his finances in 
the past. It showed three defaults that had been added in 2014 and 2015. Although 
those were many years before, they still remained outstanding. Experience suggests 
that consumers who have found it difficult to manage credit in the past, often face 
similar problems managing credit in the future. So I think UKC should have been 
concerned about what it saw on the credit check.
I have listened to a phone recording of a call where UKC discussed Mr Es finances 
with him in some depth. In particular it asked him about the three defaults that were 
showing. Mr E appeared to be unaware of at least two of those accounts, and said 
that he would look into them further. I have seen that Mr E had moved home around 
six months before he asked UKC for the loan  I think it is possible that any recent 
correspondence about those debts might have been sent to his old address and so 
failed to reach him.
But the credit that Mr E was using at that time appeared to be managed relatively 
well. He had two current accounts. One account appears to have been little used and 
carried an overdraft balance of £500. Mr E confirmed that he paid the necessary 
charges each month on that account. Mr E provided UKC with a statement of his 
main account. That showed that the account was generally maintained in credit 
throughout the month. There had been two occasions where Mr E had overspent  
and one resulted in a payment to his credit card being returned unpaid. But otherwise 
the bank statements didnt show any signs of financial problems.
After the consolidation of the two accounts Ive mentioned above, Mr E would only be 
left with a small amount of active credit outstanding. I think that, based on what Mr E 
had said about his finances, and what UKC could see from his bank statements, it 
was reasonable for the lender to conclude that the loan would be affordable for him. 
And I think that UKC might have taken even more confidence from that assessment 
given Mr Es bank statement was provided for December  a time that is likely to be 
more expensive than most for many consumers.
Although it doesnt directly influence my decision  since that is based on what 
happened when the loan was agreed, and not what happened afterwards  I have 
noted that Mr E asked UKC if he could increase the amount of his repayments shortly 
after taking the loan. It seems that the problems he has faced repaying the loan have 
resulted from a change in his circumstances following the coronavirus pandemic.
I appreciate that Mr E says his financial situation was far worse than my assessment 
above might suggest. But I think that the checks UKC performed were proportionate, 
and didnt suggest that Mr E was facing any current problems in managing his 
finances. I think UKC was entitled to rely on what Mr E said about his finances, and 
what he intended to use the loan for. And that information suggested that he would 
be able to sustainably afford the repayments on the loan. So I dont currently think 
UKC was wrong to give the loan to Mr E.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mr E hasnt responded to my provisional decision. UKC says it has 
nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I think that the checks UKC performed were proportionate, and didnt suggest that Mr E was 
facing any current problems in managing his finances. I think UKC was entitled to rely on 
what Mr E said about his finances, and what he intended to use the loan for. And that 
information suggested that he would be able to sustainably afford the repayments on the 
loan. So I dont think UKC was wrong to give the loan to Mr E.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against UK Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman