DRN-4353899
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr K complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited cancelled their 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it again 
here. In summary Advantage cancelled Mrs A and Mr Ks telematics motor insurance policy 
in April 2023. It said it did so as it hadnt received any data for more than 28 days. In 
accordance with the policy terms Advantage gave notice of cancellation and refunded the 
premium paid, excluding time on risk.
Mrs A and Mr K didnt think this was fair  they had been out of the country and hadnt 
received the notification. They hadnt received the policy terms originally either. They 
complained to our service. Ultimately our investigator recommended that the complaint be 
upheld, the policy be reinstated, and the cancellation marker removed.
Mrs A and Mr K agreed but Advantage appealed. It said that it had done everything it 
needed to in accordance with the policy terms.
I issued a provisional decision and invited the parties to respond. I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is intended by 
this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take 
this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive reviewed 
the complete file and considered the representations made after our investigators view. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome.
I agree with the recommendation made by our investigator. However, Ive reached a different 
conclusion regarding redress, for this reason Im issuing a provisional decision. My reasons 
are as follows:
Advantage says that the evidence it has submitted supports that it followed the terms 
and conditions of the policy, which Mr K would have needed to read and accept prior 
to purchasing the policy.
Mrs A and Mr K agree that they received the insurance information product document 
(IPID), but not the other documents contained in the welcome pack. Advantage says 
these were uploaded to the online portal which appears to be live as it has received 
responses from Mrs A and Mr K through the portal. But Advantage hasnt been able 
to say when such responses were received or indeed confirm if Mrs A and Mr K had 
been able to successfully access the important information in the policy document. 
Accordingly, Im not persuaded that Mrs A and Mr K had seen the important 
information contained in their policy document or had been able to access it online.
I can see that two communications were sent by Advantage to Mrs A and Mr K on 7 
February and 17 March 2023. But neither mention cancellation of their policy or 
alerted them to the fact that this was a possibility. Further contact was sent via email 
and the online portal on 31 March 2023 and the cancellation was sent in the same 
way on 14 April 2023. But Mrs A and Mr K were by then away for a month in a 
country with very sporadic internet access. It follows that Im not persuaded that they 
either received the policy documents containing the insurers right to cancel after 28 
days of no driving data being shared, or the notice of cancellation.
It is not for this service to tell insurers how to operate. It is clear it has a process in 
place. It may well be that usually this works well. And I accept that Advantage is not 
responsible if consumers have poor internet access. But Im not persuaded that Mrs 
A and Mr K were aware of the policy term that required them to let Advantage know 
that they werent driving. Or that Advantage intended to cancel their policy. Although 
strictly the policy terms allow the action that Advantage has taken, I dont find it to be 
fair and reasonable in the unique circumstances here.
Im therefore minded require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to remove the 
notice of cancellation. I find this to be the fair and reasonable outcome. But unlike our 
investigator Im not minded to require Advantage to reinstate the policy. This is 
because Mrs A and Mr K have been without insurance for several months. They 
havent been able to use their car and have had a premium refund, just excluding 
time on risk. If I required Advantage to reinstate the same policy, it could fairly require 
Mrs A and Mr K to return the premium refunded.
My provisional decision was that I was minded to require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to remove the notice of cancellation from all internal and external databases.
Mrs A and Mr K accepted my provisional decision Advantage didnt. It said that 
correspondence is sent to the online portal for customers to review. In addition, it sent a 
copy of the email sent to Mrs A and Mr K on 31 March 2023 to highlight the pending 
cancellation. It also sent screen shots of the journey customers go through when they select 
a quote from the comparison website.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Advantage for its further submissions which I have considered. I understand 
why it feels aggrieved. The documentation Advantage has submitted is clear, customers use 
the online portal to view policy documents including the policy booklet. But Im not 
persuaded to change my provisional findings, which I adopt here. Ill explain why.
The information provided by Advantage is not new, and so I remain satisfied it would be fair 
and reasonable to remove any record of cancellation from all databases. Importantly I wasnt 
satisfied that Mrs A and Mr K had seen the policy document  the You Drive Booklet  prior 
to the cancellation of their policy. And although correspondence was sent to their portal after 
the policy started, it didnt warn them of cancellation. Advantage correctly informed Mrs A 
and Mr K of the issue on 31 March 2023 but for no fault of their own (or of Advantages) 
they werent able to access this. It follows that my findings havent changed. Advantage has said it has not recorded this as a cancellation  but it had not advised this 
Service of that previously. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to remove the notice of cancellation from all internal and external databases. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman