DRN-3326586
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy that Elderbridge Limited says there is an amount still outstanding 
in respect of a secured loan they hold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O took out a secured loan with a lender in 2006. They borrowed £100,000 over a 
term of 25 years. The interest rate on the borrowing was initially 7.7% APR but was variable.
Mr and Mrs O fell into arrears on their secured loan. Because of the arrears position, in 
February 2008 the lender suppressed interest on their account. What this means is that the 
lender stopped adding the interest that became due, to the loan balance. And the interest on 
the debt began accruing separately. The impact was that all of the repayments to the loan 
were then directed towards reducing the capital balance due. So, it reduced faster than it 
wouldve done had interest been applied. And that meant the amount of interest charged 
was also less  as the interest-bearing balance was reducing faster. And as the suppressed 
interest was held separately it didnt attract additional, compound interest.
Despite interest being suppressed the account position continued to worsen and arrears 
continued to increase. The lender took legal action and in February 2009 a county court 
granted it a suspended possession order. The order granted the lender possession of the 
property but said this should not be enforced as long as Mr and Mrs O paid a set amount 
each month to clear the arrears. The possession order set out that the amount owed under 
the secured loan, at the time of the judgement, was £98,718.63.
Mr and Mrs O began making payments in line with the court order, in addition to their 
contractual monthly repayments. Interest remained suppressed and continued to accrue 
separately.
In January 2016, ownership of the loan passed to Elderbridge. Mr and Mrs O were informed 
of this. Payments were then made to Elderbridge.
Elderbridge elected to keep interest supressed on the loan. Ive seen evidence that it did 
make Mr and Mrs O aware on several occasions that interest was accruing separately.
In early 2019, Mr and Mrs O contacted Elderbridge as they understood theyd paid an 
amount equivalent to the figure noted in the court order. So, they asked Elderbridge to 
confirm this and that the loan was settled, inform the land registry that its charge should be 
released and provide confirmation to the court that theyd satisfied the terms of the 
possession order.
Elderbridge said that the suppressed interest amount was still outstanding and was now due. 
So, it declined to release its charge over the property and asked Mr and Mrs O for their 
proposals to repay this amount.
Mr and Mrs O were unhappy with this response and so, in September 2019, asked our 
service to consider their complaint. They were also unhappy that Elderbridge had continued 
to contact them for repayment proposals after theyd said they disputed the interest due and 
intended to complain.
One of our Investigators looked into matters. He said he didnt think Elderbridge had done 
anything wrong by asking for interest to be paid and he didnt think, based on what hed 
seen, that the court had decided this could not be applied. He was also satisfied that 
Elderbridge had made Mr and Mrs O aware of the suppressed interest and felt it had 
communicated fairly about this.
Mr and Mrs O asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. They didnt agree 
that the court hadnt dealt with interest due after the order was granted and said the judge 
had specifically said this shouldnt be applied. So, they didnt feel they should be liable for 
this amount. Regardless though, they argued that the interest was certainly not owed under 
the court order itself, and they felt Elderbridge was wrong to decline to confirm theyd 
satisfied the original order.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month explaining that I didnt intend to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why I 
thought this.
This complaint is against Elderbridge  which became the owner of, and responsible for, 
Mr and Mrs Os secured loan in January 2016. Given the nature of the complaint itself, and 
what it involves, I will reference things that happened before Elderbridge took over the loan. 
But just to be clear, this decision will only look at Elderbridges actions and whether it has 
acted fairly. If Mr and Mrs O wish to complain about the actions of the original lender, prior to 
their loan transferring to Elderbridge, they will need to do so separately, to the lender itself to 
begin with.
Is it fair that Elderbridge is requesting payment of suppressed interest?
Mr and Mrs O argue that they are not responsible for making any further payments to 
Elderbridge. This is because the suspended possession order obtained by the original lender 
in February 2009 set out the figure owed at that point. And between February 2009 and early 
2019, theyve paid that amount.
Id start by making it clear that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute 
resolution service. We are an alternative to a court. We dont have the power to change, 
interfere with or overturn a courts decision. And, while we have regard for relevant law, our 
findings are based on what we consider to be fair and reasonable.
The original secured loan agreement was that Mr and Mrs O were borrowing £100,000 over 
25 years. Theyd incur interest on the outstanding balance, for the duration of the 
agreement. And theyd repay this interest and the amount borrowed incrementally over the 
loan term.
The suspended possession order was granted to the original lender less than three years 
after the loan was taken out. Ive seen a copy of the order, and it does reference the amount 
outstanding at that time, made up of capital and interest, as being £98,718.63. The order 
says the lender can recover that amount for debt and interest to date of judgement. And it 
orders Mr and Mrs O to pay that amount to the lender. But I note it ordered them to do so by 
20 March 2009  within a month of the court making its finding. And while it says that is the 
sum owing up to the date of the judgement, the written order doesnt deal with whether 
interest can continue to be applied to the balance, if the debt is repaid in instalments.
Mr and Mrs O say the judge addressed the application of additional interest during the hearing. And theyve said we should approach the court for evidence of this. But the court 
order is intended to summarise the judgement made  which Ive been provided a copy of. 
And given that the hearing took place over thirteen years ago, from experience it is unlikely 
that any additional information is still held.
Mr and Mrs O say the judge said no further interest should be applied from the point of the 
hearing. But the written order itself doesnt make any reference to this, which I think it would 
have if such a condition was set. And as Ive said, the original agreement was that the debt 
owed, which came about from the lender providing Mr and Mrs O a loan, would be interest 
bearing for 25 years. If the judge was ordering the contract to be varied, that would have 
been clearly documented. Im also conscious that the order made by the court was in the 
lenders favour  as it granted possession, albeit on a suspended basis. So, I think it is 
unlikely, given the nature and outcome of the hearing, that the court wouldve said, after less 
than three years, the lender was no longer able to charge interest on the loan amount.
I agree that the possession order does refer to the debt and interest owed to the date of the 
order. But it does not, in my view, say that is everything Mr and Mrs O would ever owe to the 
lender under the agreement, unless the balance were cleared within a month.
Taking all of this into account, I think Elderbridge has acted fairly and reasonably by asking 
for interest to be repaid on top of the balance that was outstanding in February 2009.
That being said, I do think Mr and Mrs O are correct in one thing they have said. As Ive said, 
from what Ive seen the court order did not address interest to be applied after the date of 
the order being granted. Im satisfied that this means Elderbridge is acting fairly in asking for 
this. But I dont think it can reasonably say that the interest is due under the order itself - as 
the order did not deal with it.
Mr and Mrs O have said they think Elderbridge needs to therefore inform the court that the 
order has been satisfied. It isnt for me, or Elderbridge for that matter, to decide whether an 
order has been satisfied. That would be for a court to decide. As would any decision about 
the reporting of the order itself to credit reference agencies  which is generally done by the 
court service. And I dont think Elderbridge is required to contact a court directly to provide 
the information that Mr and Mrs O want it to. That would be for them to do. But I would 
expect Elderbridge to provide them with relevant information to share with the court.
From what Ive seen though, Elderbridge has provided Mr and Mrs O with a transaction list, 
showing all payments theyve made to the secured loan, since the court order. This also 
shows the running principal balance being reduced. So, the information provided already 
demonstrates what Mr and Mrs O are asking Elderbridge to confirm  that theyve made 
payments equivalent to the amount that was outstanding at the point of the court order being 
obtained. So, I dont think Elderbridge needs to do anything further in respect of this.
How the outstanding interest has come about and Elderbridges pursuit of this
The original lender took the decision to suppress the interest on Mr and Mrs Os secured 
loan. And Elderbridge isnt responsible for that decision. As Ive already explained, the 
benefit of this was that less interest would be charged in total  as the interest-bearing 
balance reduced faster than it wouldve done, and compound interest was not accrued.
When the loan was transferred to Elderbridge, it decided to keep that arrangement in place. 
And I think that decision was fair.
Had Elderbridge not continued to suppress interest, it wouldve been added to the principal 
loan balance each month, so the effect of the monthly repayments made by Mr and Mrs O, in terms of reducing that balance, wouldve been lessened. Which wouldve meant more 
interest being incurred, as well as this potentially compounding  interest being charged on 
interest. So, this wouldve meant Mr and Mrs O paid more in the long term. And its because 
of this I think Elderbridges decision to leave the interest supressed was reasonable  as it 
seems to have been to Mr and Mrs Os benefit.
Mr and Mrs O have questioned the amount Elderbridge is saying is outstanding  which they 
think has increased since they first raised their concerns about this. It appears Elderbridge 
mayve provided an approximate figure on occasion. And it mightve been better if it had 
directly quoted the actual amount  to avoid any confusion. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest that the balance it has now said is due is incorrect. And, from the information Ive 
been provided, it doesnt appear that Elderbridge is increasing that amount, by adding 
further interest.
Im also satisfied that Elderbridge has made Mr and Mrs O aware several times over the 
years that it considered suppressed interest would be due after the principal balance was 
paid. Elderbridge has said that it wasnt obliged to provide annual statements for this loan. 
And based on what Ive seen I think this is correct. I think it wouldve been good practice to 
inform Mr and Mrs O of the outstanding balance from time to time. But I can see that 
Elderbridge did do so. And, as well as informing Mr and Mrs O verbally of the suppressed 
interest, I can also see that it provided confirmation of the up to date interest figure, shortly 
after taking over the loan and again in August 2018, when writing to Mr and Mrs O. So, Im 
satisfied it has been transparent about the interest being owed.
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy that Elderbridge has contacted them since they indicated they 
disputed the interest amount. But again, I think it is fair of Elderbridge to consider this 
amount due. And just because Mr and Mrs O have raised a complaint, I dont think that 
means Elderbridge couldnt ask for this amount to be repaid. From what Ive seen there 
hasnt been any further payment made towards the amount outstanding since early 2019. 
The contact notes Ive been provided indicate Elderbridge contacted Mr and Mrs O at regular 
intervals, every few weeks, for several months seeking proposals. Mr and Mrs O did not 
want to discuss the balance further while their complaint was ongoing. But I think it was 
reasonable of Elderbridge to seek to discuss the balance  as arrears were beginning to 
accrue again on the mortgage. So, I dont think Elderbridge has acted unreasonably when 
doing this.
Moving forward, I think it is reasonable that Elderbridge will want to engage with Mr and 
Mrs O about their plans for repaying the interest balance. Mr and Mrs O have indicated they 
may continue to dispute this and seek legal advice, as they are entitled to. But that doesnt 
mean Elderbridge shouldnt continue to contact them.
Mr and Mrs O have also said that they will defend any legal action taken by Elderbridge to 
pursue the amount it says is owed. And they say they dont believe it has any right to ask for 
repayment under the previous court order. Again, Mr and Mrs O are entitled to dispute this 
this. But, if there are no proposals forthcoming, I think Elderbridge is entitled to pursue 
repayment by whatever means it feels necessary. And ultimately it would be for a court to 
decide the validity of any legal action. I would just remind Elderbridge though that action to 
take possession of a property should be considered a last resort.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Elderbridge said it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs O did not agree with my provisional decision. In summary, they said my 
explanation of their complaint was not entirely accurate. They explained they are not saying 
that Elderbridge is not entitled to ask for payment of the supressed interest but rather it is not 
entitled to do so under the court judgement. At the same time though they said they would 
dispute having to pay the suppressed interest  indicating they dont think this is due.
Theyve also said that I was incorrect in saying that they were arguing that the judge said 
further interest could not be applied after the court judgement. They said their actual 
argument was the judge said that further interest could not be addressed in the judgement. 
And by incorrectly summarising their complaint, Id misunderstood it and questioned the 
integrity of their statements. Theyve explained their question is, has the amount stated on 
the judgement been paid and so has the judgement been satisfied.
They said Id not given due attention to the judgement requiring arrears to be repaid at a rate 
that would take several years  which they say evidences that it wasnt intended to cover 
future interest. And theyve said the fact that the judgement didnt address supressed 
interest accrued between 2008 and the date of the judgement showed interest, in particular 
due after the judgement, was not part of the judgement, so it was wrong of Elderbridge to 
seek repayment of suppressed interest under the judgement itself.
Mr and Mrs O have added that they are unhappy that Ive made my decision based on the 
information available to me and not asked for further information from the court. And theyve 
said they asked the court to mark the judgement as satisfied based on the information 
Elderbridge had sent them, but it had declined. So, they think it is unfair that Elderbridge will 
not provide the relevant confirmation that the judgement has been satisfied.
Lastly, theyve said they dont agree that Elderbridge has acted fairly by continuing to contact 
them about the debt. Theyve said that in March 2021 they told Elderbridge that Mr O had 
been advised to avoid stress, but it had failed to observe the Debt Respite Scheme 
(Breathing Space) guidelines set by the Insolvency Service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs O have said that they dispute how I have summarised their complaint. They 
have said they arent arguing the suppressed interest is not due, but that it isnt due under 
the judgement made by a court in 2009. However, they went on to reiterate that they would 
dispute any attempts by Elderbridge to recover the amount it says is owed as suppressed 
interest. This indicates they do in fact dispute owing the amount Elderbridge says is 
outstanding. That was why, in my provisional findings, I addressed how that balance had 
become due and whether I felt it was fair that Elderbridge were asking for this to be repaid. 
And I remain of the opinion that this is an important part of the complaint that I need to 
address, in order for me then to look at Mr and Mrs Os other concerns. Because whether it 
is fair that Elderbridge is asking for the suppressed interest, sits at the heart of this 
complaint.
As I explained in my provisional findings, Im satisfied that the original loan agreement was 
that the balance would be interest bearing for its duration. And Im also satisfied that the 
evidence available to me does not indicate that a court ordered that agreement be varied  
as any such variation would be documented in the written judgement. 
Mr and Mrs O have said they didnt say the judge said interest could not be applied from the 
point of the judgement, but that the judge said the judgement could not deal with future interest. And they are unhappy I did not ask for further information from the court to verify 
this. It is within my power, as the deciding ombudsman, to determine what information I need 
in order to reach what I consider to be a fair and reasonable decision. And as Ive said, the 
court order is intended to summarise the judgement. And, given Ive seen the court order, 
Im satisfied I have enough information to fairly decide the complaint. 
Id also note that what Mr and Mrs O have now sought to clarify  that they argued that the 
judge said the order could not address future interest  would in fact seem to confirm the 
finding I made. If the judge was not addressing future interest, I dont think it can reasonably 
be argued that this equated to them saying it could not be applied and would not be due. So, 
I remain of the opinion that the court judgement did not prevent the application of further 
interest or meant that Elderbridge was not entitled to request this be paid. 
Elderbridge has explained that the original lender suppressed interest and that it elected to 
maintain that arrangement when it took over the debt. And given the benefit of this to 
Mr and Mrs O, in terms of interest not compounding and the capital balance reducing faster - 
meaning less interest was applied, I still believe that was fair. And Im satisfied Elderbridge 
did enough to inform Mr and Mrs O of the interest balance.
Nothing Mr and Mrs O have now said leads me to depart from these conclusions. So, I 
remain of the opinion that Elderbridge is not acting unfairly by saying that Mr and Mrs O still 
owe interest under the loan agreement. Elderbridge has sought proposals from 
Mr and Mrs O for this amount to be repaid, which I think is reasonable.
Mr and Mrs O have said that their argument is that they do not owe this amount under the 
possession order given by the court in 2009. So, they consider that the court order has been 
satisfied. And they want Elderbridge and our service to confirm this. 
As I said in my provisional findings, I dont think Elderbridge can reasonably say that the 
interest is due under the order itself. This is because, as Ive already explained, the order 
makes no mention of having dealt with interest to be applied after the judgement. But as I 
also explained previously, it isnt for Elderbridge to decide if that means the court order has 
been satisfied. Nor is that our services role. Only the court can decide that  as we have no 
power to change, interfere with or overturn a courts decision. So, I dont agree that 
Elderbridge needs to confirm that the order has been satisfied. And that isnt something I can 
decide either.
Elderbridge has provided Mr and Mrs O with a transaction list, showing all payments theyve 
made to the secured loan, since the court order, and the running principal balance being 
reduced. This demonstrated that theyve made payments equivalent to the amount that was 
outstanding at the point of the court order being obtained  which is what Mr and Mrs O 
wanted confirmation of. 
Mr and Mrs O have provided evidence that, in March 2021, they applied to the court for a 
certificate of satisfaction in respect of the 2009 judgement. And they included the details 
Elderbridge had provided. But the court returned the application and Mr and Mrs O have said 
it hasnt issued a certificate of satisfaction. 
The application document Mr and Mrs O completed for the certificate of satisfaction indicates 
that, if they couldnt provide evidence of full payment, the court would write to the creditor to 
confirm the debt has been paid. And if it doesnt receive a response within a month, the 
certificate will be issued. Im not sure why that hasnt happened here, and the court instead 
returned the application. But given that I think Elderbridge is entitled to the supressed 
interest it is claiming, I cant reasonably require it to say that the debt owed to it has been 
cleared. And again, it isnt for Elderbridge, or our service, to say that the court order has been satisfied.
As they received a response from the court, which based on the information provided to me 
seems to be at odds with the usual process for the application they made, I think Mr and 
Mrs O should discuss with the courts what is required. And if the court asked Elderbridge 
directly for information, in order for it  the only body that can  to decide if the order has 
been satisfied, Id expect Elderbridge to co-operate. But I remain of the opinion that 
Elderbridge has acted fairly to this point. And I dont think it needs to do anything more at 
this stage. 
Turning to whether it was fair for Elderbridge to contact Mr and Mrs O for repayment of the 
debt. Mr and Mrs O initially complained to Elderbridge and our service in 2019. Elderbridge 
addressed what had happened to that point  including that Mr and Mrs O were generally 
unhappy it had continued to contact them. And when making my provisional decision, I 
considered what had happened up until the complaint was referred to our service. As I think 
it was reasonable of Elderbridge to consider Mr and Mrs O responsible for the suppressed 
interest, I dont think it was unfair for it to ask for repayment proposals. And, as I said in my 
provisional findings, I dont think it was required to cease contact because Mr and Mrs O 
complained. And my opinion on that point hasnt changed.
Mr and Mrs O have now said that in March 2021 they told Elderbridge Mr O needed to avoid 
stress and they feel it hasnt followed the Insolvency Services Debt Respite Scheme 
(Breathing Space) guidelines. But the events theyve now referred to in response to my 
provisional decision did not take place until 2021  almost two years after the complaint was 
made. Their response was also the first time these specific concerns have been mentioned 
to our service. And Elderbridge hasnt had the opportunity to respond to Mr and Mrs Os 
specific complaint about this  that its actions since March 2021 breached government 
guidelines, given a change in Mr Os circumstances which took place in early 2021.
Before our service can consider a complaint, the business complained about  in this case 
Elderbridge  must first be given the opportunity to address and respond to the complaint 
made. That is part of the rules set by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, that we 
are required to follow. As a result, I wont be commenting on this issue as part of my 
decision. Mr and Mrs O would need to raise these concerns directly with Elderbridge as a 
new, separate complaint as they involve a new issue that has arisen since the complaint I 
am dealing with here was made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman