DRN-3812664
The complaint
Ms J, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
sufficient proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans.
What happened
Ms J was advanced five home collected loans between July 2016 and November 2018. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 15/07/2016 02/11/2016 20 £15.00
2 £300.00 02/11/2016 24/06/2017 33 £15.00
3 £500.00 28/07/2017 28/03/2018 33 £25.00
4 £500.00 28/03/2018 23/11/2018 33 £25.00
5 £600.00 23/11/2018 22/07/2019 33 £30.00
Following Ms Js complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt going
to uphold the complaint. Ms Js representative, unhappy with the outcome, referred the
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable
decision to provide loans 1 - 3 and so he didnt uphold Ms Js complaint about these loans.
But she thought loans 4 and 5 should be upheld because these loans had become harmful
for her.
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached about loan five. Ive
summarised its comments below.
Ms J couldve ended the relationship with Morses at any point.
There is no evidence that Ms J was using Morses loans to repay other lending.
The time over which Ms J borrowed from Morses, is in its view not excessive.
Loan 4 was the same capital value of loan 3.
While loan 6, was the largest loan, her weekly repayment only increased by £5.
Ms J had a good repayment history.
Ms Js income for loan 4, was confirmed through a wage slip she had provided and
her income for loan 5 was verified through the credit reference agency.
Ms Js representative confirmed it had received the adjudicators assessment, but no further
comments have been provided. The case was then passed to me for a decision about the 
complaint.
I then issued a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Ms Js complaint, based on the evidence available at the time. A copy of the provisional 
findings follows this in italics and a smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms J could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Ms Js income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms J. These factors include:
Ms J having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms J having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms J coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms J.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms J could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms J was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Js complaint.
Neither Morses nor Ms J (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the
adjudicator reached about loans 1 - 3. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute
and so I say no more about them. But I have kept them in mind when thinking about the
overall lending relationship.
Loans 4 and 5
The adjudicator upheld these loans because in her view the lending was now harmful for
Ms J.I accept, that Ms J had been indebted with Morses continuously for around 20 months
(before loan 4 was advanced)  and she was further committing to be indebted for an
additional 33 weeks. This, in some situations could be a sign that she was now reliant on the
borrowing or at the very least having longer term money management problems. Neither can
I ignore that at times the lending was consecutive, which could show that Ms J had a
continued need for credit.
But I also have to keep in mind that Ms Js borrowing hadnt always increased  indeed loan
4 was the same value as loan 3. So, I cant fairly conclude Ms Js commitments were
increasing in an unsustainable manner. In addition, there were no obvious repayment
problems in the way Ms J repaid her previous loans.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morses wouldve or ought to have realised the
loan was unsustainable for Ms J and so I am intending to conclude the loans werent likely to
be so harmful that it wouldve prompted Morses to have stopped lending to her. But that
doesnt mean Morses did all it shouldve done before advancing the loan.
Morses has provided us with the income information it collected from Ms J for these loans.
She declared a weekly income of £300 for loan 4 and £320 for loan 5, with weekly outgoings
of £180 for loan 4 and £210 for loan 5. This left disposable income of £120 for loan 4 and
£110 for loan 5. Based, on these figures it was reasonable for Morses to believe that Ms J
could afford her repayments.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out proportionate checks. I do think the time in
debt ought to have alerted Morses to the possibility that Ms J may have been reliant on
this type of credit.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Ms J declared to it
about her income and expenditure even though this information suggested Ms J could
afford these loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Js actual financial position to
ensure the lending was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking
for evidence of her outgoings or looking at bank statements and/or Ms Js full credit file.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Ms Js financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Ms J couldnt afford them.
Ms Js representative hasnt provided a copy of her credit file or her bank statements
covering the period leading up to loans 4 and 5 being advanced. Without anything further, I
cant be sure what Morses may have seen had it carried out better checks. So, I cant fairly
uphold the complaint.
Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further
checks wouldve led it to conclude that loans 4 and 5 shouldnt have been granted.
So, Im intending to not uphold Ms Js complaint about these loans.
Response to the Provisional Decision 
Both Ms J and Morses were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as 
possible, but in any event no later than 17 November 2022. Ms Js representative said it had forwarded the provisional decision to her and would let the 
Financial Ombudsman Service know if any further information is received. Nothing further 
has been received. 
Morses didnt acknowledge or respond to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The deadline for responses to the provisional decision has now ended and no further 
comments or information have been provided. Therefore, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings that I reached in the provisional decision. 
I still dont think Morses carried out proportionate checks before loans 4 and 5 were 
approved. But as Ive received nothing from Ms Js representative about her financial 
position at the time these loans were approved, Im not in a position to uphold her complaint 
about these loans because I dont know what Morses may have seen, had it carried out 
better checks. 
I do not uphold Ms Js complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Ms Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman