DRN-2275698
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim she made under her home insurance policy. Lloyds applied its fraud term and 
cancelled Mrs As policy. 
What happened
Mrs A bought a home insurance policy with Lloyds. In September 2019 she made a claim for 
damage to two mobile phones which Ill call A and B. She said she had both phones in her 
pocket while moving furniture. She said the phones fell out of her pocket and down stairs. 
Lloyds declined her claim as Mrs A didnt have suitable cover. 
In November 2019 Mrs A said she moved to a new house and obtained appropriate home 
insurance cover with Lloyds. 
In March 2020 Mrs A made a claim to Lloyds. She said two different phones - which Ill call C 
and D - had been damaged in similar circumstances to when she attempted to claim in 
September 2019.
 
B and C are the same make and model but Mrs A said they are different phones.
Lloyds asked Mrs A to send photos of the damaged phones. Mrs A sent photos of three 
phones, which caused some confusion. The photos showed varying damage to two phones 
of the same make and model, so B and C, and a third phone with the same damage and 
make as A from the previous claim in September 2019. 
There were no photos of a phone for the same make and model as D from Mrs As 
notification call in March 2020. The damage showing in the photos didnt support the 
damage described by Mrs A.
Lloyds asked Mrs A for an explanation and proof of purchase for the phones. But the 
information and receipts Mrs A provided raised further discrepancies. 
In May 2020 Lloyds rejected Mrs As claim. It said it was satisfied that she had 
misrepresented the claim in an attempt to benefit from the policy. It relied on its fraud term 
under the policy. Lloyds cancelled Mrs As policy and backdated the cancellation to 24 
March 2020  when she notified it of her claim. It told Mrs A she will need to tell future 
insurers about the cancellation. 
Mrs A asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought Lloyds had reached is 
decision reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mrs A wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds can cancel a policy if it believes a condition of the policy has been breached. In this 
case, Lloyds say , based on the evidence it has, its likely Mrs A did breach the fraud 
condition of the policy. Ive checked the terms and conditions of the policy in relation to this, 
and they say:
Fraud
The contract between you and us is based on mutual trust and we rely on the 
honesty of our
policyholders. If you or anyone acting for you knowingly or recklessly:
provides information to us that is not true in order to obtain cover or cover at a lower
premium or on better terms; or
provides information or documentation to us that is false, misleading or dishonestly
exaggerated in relation to a claim; or
otherwise acts or behaves dishonestly in relation to your policy;
then we:
will cancel your policy from the date of the fraudulent act;
will not pay any part of a fraudulent claim or any claims arising after the date of the
fraudulent act;
will retain any premium you have paid; may recover any payments made to you or 
on your
behalf and any costs and expenses incurred in respect of a fraudulent claim or any 
claims
arising after the fraudulent act.
Based on the above wording, I think Lloyds is entitled to cancel the policy if a policyholder 
has breached this condition. It isnt for us to decide whether a policyholder has acted 
fraudulently or not. Instead, I need to decide if Lloyds acted reasonably on raising the fraud 
condition and taking the action it has.
So Ive looked at what Lloyds has taken into account, and whether I think this was fair.
Mrs A made a claim for damage to two mobile phones (C and D) in March 2020. She 
provided a receipt for purchasing both phones of the same description under contract in July 
2019. However, the photos she provided in March 2020 showed the damage to the phones 
claimed for wasnt as described. The photos showed damage to a phone of the same make, 
model and damage as Mrs A had previously tried to claim for (phone A). The photos didnt 
show a phone matching the description Mrs A gave for the second phone being claimed for 
(phone D.)
In other words, the photos showed phones that matched A and B from Mrs As previously 
unsuccessful claim in September 2019, along with phone C. Although a claim for phone D 
was made in March 2020, no evidence of damage to this phone was provided. 
Mrs A told Lloyds shed made a mistake due to being under stress with work. However, 
Lloyds said that the extent of the damage to one of the phones and the fact it was a different 
handset meant  in their view  it was very unlikely Mrs A made a mistake.
Mrs A told Lloyds that she remembered her brother-in-law bought her a replacement phone 
as a gift following her unsuccessful claim in September 2019. So she said this was one of 
the phones in her claim in March 2020 (phone C)-and separate to one of the phones she 
attempted to claim for in September 2019. Lloyds asked Mrs A to provide proof of purchase. Mrs A provided a card statement dated 
October 2019 to evidence when her brother-in-law bought the replacement phone for her. 
But this didnt show Lloyds details of the purchase. Mrs A then provided a receipt which 
showed the phone had been bought in August 2019. This didnt match the account Mrs A 
gave that the phone had been bought as a gift to replace the one not covered under her 
claim in September 2019. 
So, I think there were a number of discrepancies in the information Mrs A provided in order 
to prove her claim. Putting all its concerns together, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Lloyds to decide the fraud condition of the policy had been breached. And, having reached 
that conclusion, I think it was entitled to cancel the policy. 
I understand Mrs A is upset about the decision Lloyds made. But Im satisfied the actions it 
took when looking into the claim were fair. And I dont think it should have done anything 
differently  or that it should have reached a different conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman