DRN-3158922
The complaint
Mr and Ms M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt remove the charge over their 
property when they redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
In early 2021 Mr and Ms M tried to get an equity release mortgage on their property. Mr M 
says theyd had a number of meetings with the new mortgage provider in March 2021, and 
the mortgage had effectively been approved. However, on 29 March 2021 the new mortgage 
provider emailed them to say that the mortgage had been refused because Lloyds already 
had a charge on their property.
Mr M says he felt humiliated by this as he thought he still owed money in relation to the 
property. He phoned Lloyds to let them know what had happened. He was put through to 
someone in the Philippines who asked a lot of personal information and wasnt helpful. Then 
the phone call was cut off. That person phoned back the next day (30 March 2021) and he 
was asked more information. Mr M says the agent offered £75 compensation, without saying 
why. Mr M says he and Ms M felt totally on their own, as Lloyds had no information about the 
mortgage.
Mr and Ms M had originally got their mortgage from the Cheltenham & Gloucester Building 
Society. That mortgage was taken over by Lloyds TSB Bank plc, and then TSB Bank plc 
(TSB) in 2013.
Mr M says he and Ms M spent three difficult days going through their old bank statements 
and Ms Ms diary to work out the problem and how to solve it. The provided Lloyds with 
relevant information. When he complained to Lloyds he set out in detail the large amount of 
contact he had with it during this period, and his difficulties getting the information they 
needed. Mr M says Ms M was very unwell and didnt need the stress this matter caused. 
They visited the branch to sort the matter out and to provide Lloyds with the information  
despite it being during the covid-19 pandemic and Ms M being listed as someone thats 
vulnerable to covid-19.
Mr M has told us that he feels he and Ms M solved the problem themselves. They think 
Lloyds shouldve done much more to help them and that it shouldnt have made the mistake 
in the first place.
Lloyds say Mr and Ms Ms mortgage was transferred to TSB in 2013 following the European 
Commissions ruling that certain Lloyds accounts should be transferred to them. Mr and Mrs 
M shouldve been informed of that at the time. So Lloyds werent responsible for Mr and Ms 
Ms mortgage when it was redeemed in 2014.
Lloyds say they acted quickly to resolve the matter. The have said the agent Mr and Ms M 
spoke to on 30 March 2021 escalated the matter to a manager in its complaints team. The 
agent also gave Ms M the contact details for the relevant team at TSB, and Lloyds contacted 
TSB immediately about what had happened. This meant that Lloyds was able to remove the 
charge from Mr and Ms Ms property on 1 April 2021. Lloyds says a complaints manager 
tried to phone Mr and Ms M on 1 April to let them know this, but they were unsuccessful in 
making contact. However, the complaints manager was able to speak to Mr M a few days 
later.
Lloyds offered Mr and Ms M £122 compensation for what happened - £100 to cover distress 
and inconvenience and £22 to cover Mr Ms costs when he travelled to a branch to speak 
about this matter. Mr M says thats an insult. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. He said he completely understood Mr and Ms 
Ms frustration and shock when they realised that Lloyds still held a charge over their 
property so long after the mortgage had been redeemed. However, he could see that Lloyds 
had done what it said it had in response to Ms Ms call on 30 March 2021, and removed the 
charge on 1 April 2021, so he didnt think it was fair to say that Lloyds didnt try to help. He 
appreciated that Mr and Ms M had been distressed and worried that their new mortgage 
application wouldnt go through, but he said that in all the circumstances he thought the £122 
compensation Lloyds had offered them was in line with what our service would offer for what 
had happened.
Mr and Ms M disagreed with our investigator and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no doubt that Mr and Ms M were extremely annoyed and worried to hear that Lloyds 
still held a charge over their property despite the fact that theyd redeemed their mortgage in 
2014. I can see that they were genuinely concerned that they might not get their equity 
release mortgage, and that somehow they still owed money to Lloyds. Mr M has told us this 
caused them to spend three difficult days going through their old bank statements and 
Ms Ms diary to work what was going on. Its also clear that they made a journey to branch to 
try to resolve the matter, despite the covid-19 pandemic and Ms Ms vulnerability.
I understand why Mr and Ms M are so unhappy about this, and Im conscious that Mr M 
wants Lloyds to accept that it created the problem in the first place. However, it would only 
be fair for me to hold Lloyds responsible for the distress caused if Lloyds had made a 
mistake and failed to remove the charge after the mortgage was redeemed in 2014 as it 
should. Its not clear to me that Lloyds was responsible for that. As Lloyds has said, Mr and 
Ms Ms mortgage was transferred to TSB in 2013 following European Commissions ruling 
that certain Lloyds accounts should be transferred to them. So TSB (not Lloyds) was 
responsible for the mortgage from that point onwards.
 
I think Lloyds could reasonably expect TSB to tell them that Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was 
redeemed in 2014 so that they could remove the charge from the property. Its not clear to 
me that TSB did this, and I think its unlikely that we will know whether that happened given 
the passage of time. I say that because financial businesses are only required to hold 
information for six years, and more than six years has passed since 2014. So I think its 
unlikely that the relevant information will be available now. 
Mr M is very clear that from his and Ms Ms point of view they were the ones who sorted the 
matter out. Thats because they found the relevant information and went into branch to 
ensure NatWest got it. I appreciate Mr and Ms Ms position on this and Im sorry to hear about the days they spent gathering relevant information. Im in no doubt that this was a 
stressful period for them.
However, I dont think its fair to say that Lloyds didnt help them. I can see that Lloyds 
escalated the matter very promptly and were able to remove the charge from Mr and Ms Ms 
property a few days after they first let Lloyds know that they still held a charge on their 
property. I can also see from Lloyds notes that Mr and Ms M were offered £75 on that phone 
call for the distress and inconvenience theyd been caused. I appreciate that Mr M has told 
us that he didnt know what the £75 was for at the time.
Taking this matter as a whole, I think the £122 compensation Lloyds had offered Mr and Ms 
M to resolve this matter is fair and reasonable. It reflects the fact that despite Mr and Ms Ms 
genuine distress and worry, the matter was resolved within a few days. So they should now 
be in a position to get the mortgage they want.
 
I appreciate that Mr M and Ms M are unlikely to be happy with this decision. Mr M has 
described the £122 compensation as an insult. In one of his letters to Lloyds he has said that 
he and Ms M want to be compensated for the worry and distress that Lloyds caused, and the 
time and effort they took to resolve the problem. However, as I said above, it would only be 
fair and for me to require Lloyds to pay Mr and Ms M more compensation if I was clear that 
Lloyds was responsible for creating the problem in the first place. Im not persuaded that it 
was in fact their fault, for the reasons set out above. Finally I think its worth pointing out here 
that my role is to try to resolve this complaint. It isnt for me to act as Lloyds regulator. So it 
follows that my award isnt intended to punish Lloyds for what happened.
Im aware that in April 2021 Lloyds sent Mr and Ms M a cheque for £122. If they decide to 
accept this decision they can pay that in now (if they havent already done so) or ask Lloyds 
to reissue the cheque.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr and 
Ms M the £122 it has offered to resolve the complaint, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman