DRN-2225756
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mrs Gs complaint.      
Summary and background to complaint
Mrs G said Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) with two 
loan in 2005 and 2006.
Lloyds didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it 
said Mrs G had referred the complaint to us too late. 
  
But Lloyds did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
Mrs Gs PPI premium (for each policy.) It did this because it didnt tell Mrs G about the high 
level of commission and profit share shed pay on each policy  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mrs Gs complaint 
about how the policies were sold. And they thought Lloyds payment was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint
Mrs Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made.
 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
My findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Lloyds hasnt agreed.  
Mrs Gs complaint was made in October 2019. This is more than six years after Lloyds sold 
the policies to her  in February 2005 and June 2006  which are the events shes 
complaining about here. So I need to think about whether the complaint was made within 
three years of when Mrs G should reasonably have been aware she had cause to complain. 
Lloyds says it sent Mrs G a letter on 23 July 2013 (and a follow up or reminder in September 
2013) which alerted her to the possibility something might have gone wrong with her policy 
sales. Given what Mrs G is complaining about, I think she should reasonably have been 
aware she had reason to complain when she got this letter.
I say this because the letter said that some problems had been identified with the sale of PPI 
around the time Mrs G took out her policies and it gave some examples of the kind of things 
it had identified  some of which Mrs G is now complaining about. It also invited Mrs G to 
raise any concerns she had about her own policy sales in light of its general findings that PPI 
might have been mis-sold.
I can see from Lloyds records that the letter was sent to the right address  Mrs G hadnt 
changed her address since she took out the loans and PPI. And I havent been told about 
any reason why she might not have received it (like problems with her post). So Im satisfied 
it was most likely delivered correctly.
Three years from the first letter is 23 July 2016, which in this case does extend the six-year 
deadline mentioned above. This means Mrs G needed to make her complaint about the 
policy sales by 23 July 2016. As she didnt complain until October 2019 her complaint is out 
of time under the rules I have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances.
But, other than what Ive looked at above, Mrs G hasnt given any real reasons for the delay.
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mrs G with her complaint about how the policies were 
sold.
Non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mrs G about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mrs G was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipLloyds didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs G because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Gs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs G should get back all the money she paid for the policies 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mrs G about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policies were poor value, I should find that Mrs G wouldnt have taken out the 
policies had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policies had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policies had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mrs G in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing 
the high level of commission to her before she purchased the policies.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for each PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Gs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policies but for Lloyds failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs G paid for her PPI policies -  I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that Lloyds offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of each policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As Lloyds has already paid Mrs G compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
My decision
Im unable to consider Mrs Gs complaint about how her polices were sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mrs G an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of each policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable.) As Lloyds 
Bank PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that it should do 
anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision about the commission aspect of the complaint before 10 February 
2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman