DRN-2196653
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the service that he has received from Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited; in particular the valuation of his car following an accident, delays in providing 
documents, and the substitute car being taken back earlier than agreed. 
Reference to Advantage Insurance Company Limited includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr Ts car was considered a total loss following a road traffic accident in January 2019. 
Following the accident Mr T was provided with a substitute car. The substitute car was 
provided as an additional product to Mr Ts insurance product and is underwritten and 
administered by a different insurer. Under the terms of this policy the substitute car was 
provided to Mr T for a period of 21 days. 
Mr T was offered £4,053 for his car. Mr T rejected this offer and provided Advantage with 
documents to show that the cost of replacing his vehicle with a similar one was more than 
what was being offered. 
Advantage increased its offer for the vehicle to £4,217 which it said was at the top of the 
valuation bracket and it was unable to increase any further. During the course of a telephone 
conversation with Advantage Mr T says that he was told that if he accepted the offer for the 
vehicle he would be able to have the substitute car for an additional 30 days. On that basis 
Mr T accepted the higher valuation for the car. 
When Mr T attempted to follow up on the additional 30-day car hire he was told that this was 
not something that Advantage offered and his policy only allows for the car for a period of 21 
days. Mr T complained to Advantage and asked for copies of the call recordings. Mr T was 
provided with some telephone calls but had to chase Advantage for the remaining calls. 
The substitute car was collected on 26 February. Mr T believed that the car was being 
collected at 4pm but was collected at 8am. Mr T says that the people who attended his 
house to collect the car were rude and aggressive. He was told his insurance for the car had 
been cancelled and was left with no choice but to return it. Mr T was left without a vehicle. 
Following the collection of the substitute car Mr T received a letter from the car hire company 
asking for him to pay to refuel the car as per the terms of the policy. Mr T instructed a 
solicitor to write to the company at a cost of £60.
Mr T is a carer for his elderly parent and not having access to a car has clearly caused 
additional stress for Mr T. I understand the impact that this matter has had on Mr T.
Mr T was able to obtain a car under the mobility scheme and needed some documentation 
from his insurer detailing his claims. Mr T called Advantage to obtain the relevant 
documentation. Advantage sent out the documents on the same day however the 
information provided was incorrect. Mr T had to chase Advantage on numerous occasions in 
order to obtain the relevant documents.
Mr T complained to Advantage regarding the service that he received. Advantage partially 
upheld the complaint in respect of not coming back to Mr T when it said it would and offered 
Mr T £50 to reflect the inconvenience for this. Advantage did not uphold the complaint in 
respect of the valuation and the issues with the substitute car. 
Mr T referred his complaint to this service and the investigator looked into things for him. The 
investigator did not uphold the complaint. He felt that Advantage had acted fairly in their 
handling of the claim and thought that £50 was reasonable in the circumstances. Mr T didnt 
agree and therefore this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Valuation of the vehicle 
Mr Ts policy says pay the market value of your car immediately before the loss 
The policy defines market value as the cost of replacing your car in the United Kingdom at 
the time the loss or damage occurred with one of a similar make, model, age and condition. 
Publications may be used which refer to vehicle values such as Glasss Guide to assess the 
market value with an allowance being made for the mileage, condition and circumstances of 
purchase by you 
I need to consider whether Advantage used the right market value for the car under the 
terms of the policy. The guides referred to in the policy are based on extensive nationwide 
research of likely selling process by reputable dealers. Our investigator independently 
checked the guides and also reached the same valuation as Advantage.
I have seen Advantages explanation of their valuation of Mr Ts car and I have seen that it 
has offered Mr T the top end of the valuation bracket. I am satisfied that this would be the 
price Mr T would have had to pay for a comparable vehicle, without damage, immediately 
before his own car was damaged. 
Mr T complains that Advantages figure is lower than the prices he was able to find online 
and that he has never seen a comparable car for the price of the settlement value. Mr T 
provided a number of adverts for similar cars to his own which showed a variance in price. 
But the variance in price demonstrates that valuing a car isnt an exact science. It is our 
experience that advertised prices are still set at a level to allow for negotiation and discount 
to secure a sale. 
As mentioned above the guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely selling 
process. So while individual cars may be advertised at a higher or lower price the guides 
give an average value of a car with its specific characteristics. Its for that reason I feel that 
the valuation of £4,217 is reasonable. Im therefore not upholding this aspect of the 
complaint. 
Substitute car 
The investigator advised Mr T that he needs to take his complaint regarding the substitute 
car to the care hire company. I can see that the substitute car was provided under a 
separate policy to Mr Ts car insurance policy. Mr T needs to take this aspect of his 
complaint directly to the underwriter of that policy and allow them the opportunity to respond to the complaint in the first instance. Given what I have said I wont comment on the 
specifics of this part of Mr Ts complaint. 
Delays in provision of insurance record for mobility scheme application 
Mr T requested a copy of his claims history in early 2019 in order to assist with his 
application for a car under the Mobility Scheme. I can see from the evidence provided that 
Mr T had to chase Advantage on numerous occasions in order to obtain the relevant 
documentation. Mr T was told by Advantage that the information would be provided but he 
still had to chase regularly. Mr T wasnt provided with his claims history until July 2019. I 
think the standard of service provided to Mr T fell short of what I would have expected. 
Especially since Advantage were aware that Mr T was without a car and was his mothers 
main carer so it was imperative that he made a timely application for a car under the Mobility 
Scheme. 
The investigator felt that the delays in providing Mr T with the information that he requested 
fell short of what he would have expected and therefore felt that £50 compensation was a 
fair amount to reflect the failure in service. I am therefore upholding this part of the 
complaint.
Putting things right
I note that Advantage have offered to pay compensation of £50. That was in response to 
their acceptance that it had taken longer than it said to review the calls and call Mr T back. 
I think that a total of £100 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The 
service provided by Advantage fell below the standard that I would have expected and its 
clear that Mr T was inconvenienced by the failings. 
My final decision
Advantage Insurance Company Limited has already sent Mr T a cheque £50 to settle the 
complaint. I think a further £50 to reflect the inconvenience as detailed above is fair, so a 
total of £100.
So my decision is that Advantage Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr T an additional 
£50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman