DRN-2938729
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard made a mistake in 
collecting his direct debits for two months. Hed like it to acknowledge this and to remove any 
adverse data about this from his credit file.
What happened
Mr W had set up a direct debit (DD) to pay his Barclaycard each month. This worked 
successfully up until March 2020.
In March 2020 Barclaycard agreed to a four-month payment holiday, with the payments 
starting again in August. But Mr W says Barclaycard didnt collect the DD in August. And the 
same thing happened again in September. Mr W is unhappy that Barclaycard applied late 
payments fees for the two missed payment and reported the missed payments against his 
credit file.
Mr W says the DD is properly set up on his bank account and he had sufficient funds in his 
account to cover the two payments. He says his bank says that it has no record of 
Barclaycard trying to collect the payments. And he says when he called Barclaycard in 
September after the second missed payment, it agreed it had made a mistake and said it 
would now look into this and have the adverse data removed. But Mr W says Barclaycard 
then changed its mind and denied making a mistake. Mr W says hed now like Barclaycard 
remove details of the missed payments from his credit file, as agreed, and to reinstate his 
DD so that there are no problems going forward.
Barclaycard said that, when it tried to take the payments in August and September, theyd 
been returned unpaid by Mr Ws bank with the details no instructions so it didnt agree it 
had made a mistake. And although it accepted that it had given Mr W incorrect information 
when hed called in September, Barclaycard said it couldnt agree to remove details of the 
missed payments from Mr Ws credit file as it had a responsibility to ensure any information 
recorded was correct. But it had refunded the two late payment fees applied to Mr Ws 
account and had since set up a new DD for the payments which was working properly. It felt 
this was reasonable.
Our investigator considered Barclaycard had taken reasonable steps to try and collect the 
payments so he couldnt agree to ask it to remove the details of the missed payments from 
Mr Ws credit file. And he felt its offer to refund the two late payment fees was reasonable so 
he wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mr W didnt agree. He said Barclaycard had admitted it was responsible for the error and 
had agreed to take steps to put it right, including amending his credit file. He asked us to 
listen to the call recording to confirm this.
On 3 June 2021, I issued a provisional decision on this matter as Id come to a different 
conclusion as to the outcome. In my decision I made the following points:
The DD set up for Mr Ws Barclaycard had worked successfully up until March 2020. 
However, following a four-month payment holiday between April and July, Barclaycard 
hadnt been able to collect the next direct debit due in August or the one after that.
Id seen Barclaycard denied having been the cause of this problem and said Mr W needed to 
speak to his bank to see what the issue was. Mr Ws bank, however, said it had no record of 
Barclaycard seeking payment under Mr Ws direct debit.
Id also seen that Mr W was adamant that when hed called Barclaycard in September to find 
out what was wrong, it had told him it had made a mistake and it would now take steps to put 
matters right. Barclaycard agreed it had said this but said it was a mistake and the call 
handler had misunderstood the information. 
Having listened to this call, l however, I didnt agree. In this call the call handler clearly told 
Mr W that the problem had been caused by Barclaycard. More than that he then went on to 
say that it was known that there could be difficulties in collecting payments under a DD 
following a payment holiday. For that reason, staff were advised in such situations to cancel 
the direct debit and to set it up again rather than to simply try and reactivate it. The call 
handler then checked this with a senior colleague who confirmed it was correct.
There was no dispute that Mr W hadnt had any problems with making his payments before 
the break in 2020. I could also see that, at the time the direct debits failed in August and 
September, Mr W was in funds to make the payments and, in fact, did so on both occasions 
immediately after he was told the direct debits had failed. And it was clear that, once the 
direct debit was set up again in September, thered been no further problems with these 
payments. 
Taking all of this information into account it seemed more likely than not that there may have 
been a problem in re-instating Mr Ws direct debit after the payment holiday in 2020 and this 
was the reason why the payments were rejected. This fitted with the call between Mr W and 
Barclaycard and also with the information Mr W had received from his bank. And while Id 
taken into account that Barclaycard has said that the call handler had made a mistake, I 
could see the call handler had checked the advice with another more senior colleague and 
felt it was reasonable to place weight on this.
There was nothing to suggest Mr W hadnt been able, or willing, to make the payments and it 
seemed clear that it was only the issue with the direct debit that had prevented him from 
doing so. If that problem was caused by, or known to, Barclaycard then I considered it would 
be unfair for Mr W to be penalised for that. Ive seen Barclaycard texted Mr W in August to 
say the payment had failed but it didnt suggest that he should check his DD, or why. If it 
had, then the missed payment in September could have been avoided, along with the 
adverse report on his credit file. For that reason, I felt it was only fair and reasonable that 
Barclaycard should remove any adverse data from Mr Ws credit file relating to the missed 
direct debits in August and September 2020, in addition to the refund of the late payment 
fees that it had already made.
Mr W has accepted my recommendation but asked for a final decision.
Barclaycard has also accepted my recommendation and agreed to remove the adverse 
markers from Mr Ws credit file
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent seen any new information that would cause me to change my 
provisional view. Ive taken into account the call between Barclaycard and Mr W in 
September that suggested that there was a known issue in reactivating some direct debits 
after a payment holiday. It was for this reason that the internal advice was to set up the 
direct debit again, rather than to try and reactivate it. That seems to me to be a very 
significant point as it was only after Mr W took a payment holiday that the problems with his 
direct debit began.
In the circumstances I consider that it is more likely than not that the problem was caused by 
a known issue following the payment holiday Mr W had taken. If thats the case then I think it 
would have been reasonable to expect Barclaycard to have done more to alert customer to 
this issue so they could take steps to ensure their DDs were working correctly. It didnt do so 
with Mr W and for that reason I think its service was not as good as it should have been. 
Putting things right
I can see that Barclaycard has already refunded the two late payment fees amounting to £24 
but in the circumstances, I consider that it is only fair and reasonable for Barclaycard to now 
remove any adverse data relating to these two missed payments from Mr Ws credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard to remove any adverse data relating to the missed direct debit payments in 
August and September 2020 from Mr Ws credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman