DRN-3601276
The complaint
A company which Ill call F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc treated them unfairly by 
restricting access and then closing their business bank account.
 
The complaint is brought on Fs behalf by their director, Mr S.
What happened
F held an account with HSBC. F says that in September 2021, the bank restricted access to 
their account. Over the course of several months, Fs secretary and Mr S made a series of 
complaints to HSBC about their account which are summarised below.
F told us:
They relocated abroad in August 2021 and werent aware that their account had 
gone overdrawn and didnt have sufficient funds to make their payments. They had 
then credited the account as they werent aware it was closed.
HSBC had their telephone and email contact details, but they hadnt received any 
contact from the bank.
As a result of the restriction on their account, direct debit payments had been missed 
and as a result, an insurance claim they were making had been impacted. 
Theyd attempted to contact HSBC by email since September 2021 to remove the 
restriction without success, as they didnt have access to telephone banking and their 
card reader wasnt working. 
HSBC had delayed updating their account as it wouldnt provide information over the 
telephone to their secretary when they failed the security questions. Theyd also 
incurred costs from repeatedly calling the bank and being on hold for lengthy periods.
HSBC had allowed direct debit payments to leave the account which shouldnt have 
been paid. 
They werent happy with how their complaints had been dealt with by the bank. 
HSBC told us:
Fs telephone banking access had previously been blocked so it was unable to 
discuss the account over the telephone.
It needed to undertake a safeguarding review to ensure the information it held for F 
was accurate, however it had written to the company on five occasions between 
March and July 2021 at the address it held on file - but hadnt received a response. 
This information requests would also have been visible on Fs internet banking page 
when this was accessed. However, F didnt appear to have accessed this during 
that time, which was in breach of the facility conditions. And F didnt have a 
Relationship Manager so they wouldnt have been contacted in this way. 
It wrote to F in July 2021 and giving sixty days notice that their account would be 
closed if it didnt receive a response. As F didnt reply it started the account closure 
in September 2021 which restricted the account and meant the regular payments 
direct debits werent paid as the account wasnt active.  
Its call handler wouldnt disclose information to Fs secretary as they hadnt passed 
security and authority hadnt been given by Fs director who had been dealing with 
the call initially.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought in summary that it 
was reasonable for HSBC to:
Make F aware it was undertaking a safeguarding review so it could meet its 
regulatory obligations.  
Write to F at the registered address it held on file  which was in line with the banks 
terms - to make the company aware of what was information was required. And the 
bank wasnt obligated to email or text Mr S even though this was their preferred 
method of contact. He also said that the five letters had been sent by the bank before 
F had relocated abroad in August 2021, so the company ought reasonably to have 
received them. 
Not share information with Fs secretary over the phone due to a failure in answering 
the security questions correctly. He also noted Mr S also had telephone banking 
access and could have spoken to the bank about the safeguarding during the period 
when the secretary was resetting their access.  
Close Fs account when it didnt receive a response to its letters requesting 
information, and therefore it was also reasonable for the bank to return any regular 
monthly repayments as part of that process which was in line with its terms and 
conditions. 
Our investigator agreed that F had been inconvenienced due to HSBCs call waiting times. 
However, he said the bank had paid the company £25 compensation which he thought was 
fair and noted that HSBC had taken steps to resolve this issue. So he thought the bank had 
done enough to put things right. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review Fs complaint. He said in summary 
that F:
Went to the local HSBC branch in August and werent made aware of any specific 
requirements needed for a safeguarding review but provided the identification 
documents as requested. 
Had asked the bank not to send any correspondence by post  only via email  since 
the company had been trading overseas, and all previous notifications had been sent 
to the Mr S in this manner or via text message  except the safeguarding requests  
so they felt it was unreasonable for HSBC to only send letters about this.   
Hadnt been made aware of the safeguarding review or that the account had been 
closed  despite making a complaint in September that their card reader wasnt 
working when they had been able to speak to HSBC in branch or over the phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.F and HSBC have both provided detailed evidence about this complaint. F has requested 
that the parts of the complaint raised by their secretary are not considered as part of this 
decision. I can see that our investigator has explained that this means we wont be able to 
reconsider these points at a later date, however F wishes to continue on this basis. To be 
clear, this means Fs complaint points regarding a direct debit being paid in error, their 
secretary being on hold to the bank for lengthy periods of time and the secretarys telephone 
banking access will not be addressed in my decision. 
F says that HSBC has treated them unfairly by restricting and then closing their account as a 
result of the safeguarding review. But I dont agree. HSBC has regulatory obligations to 
ensure that it has sufficient knowledge of its customers, and that it is also protecting its 
customers adequately. Ive seen that HSBC wrote to F five times over a five-month period to 
obtain the safeguarding information it needed - but it didnt receive a response. As the bank 
wasnt satisfied it could meet its regulatory obligations, it and gave F warning that it would 
restrict and then be closing their account. Ive also seen that in July, HSBC gave F sixty 
days notice that it would close the account which was in line with its terms and conditions. I 
think this was reasonable.
Mr S says Fs preferred method of contact was email or SMS, and that HSBC was aware 
that they had relocated. However, HSBC isnt obligated to communicate in that way and the 
account terms say that the bank would write to F if it needed certain information. This is a 
commercial decision the bank is entitled to make and ultimately, its the companys 
responsibility to ensure HSBC held up to date address contact details for them. I 
acknowledge that Mr S says F werent made aware when they spoke to the branch about the 
safeguarding review. However, Mr has told us F went to the branch to discuss account 
access for their secretary so its likely the member of staff didnt have any reason to 
approach this topic with them. So I dont think HSBC did anything wrong by not discussing 
the safeguarding review at this point. 
HSBC has also told us that the information it needed was requested on Fs internet banking 
from March onwards, so if the company accessed this at any point, they would also have 
been able to respond through this medium. I recognise F says that it tried to access its 
online banking, but it wasnt able to do so as its secure key reader wasnt working. However, 
the evidence provided by Mr S of his attempts to log into Fs online banking were from 
October onwards  after the account had already been closed and the related benefits had 
ceased. So I think the bank made a reasonable attempt to make F aware of what was 
required for the safeguarding review and provide the company with more than one method to 
respond prior to the account being closed. 
Furthermore, F told us that their relocation didnt take place until August  which was after 
HSBC had written to them between March and July. Ive seen copies of the letters from the 
bank, so Im satisfied that these were sent. Ive also seen that these were sent to the 
address the bank held on file - which is the same address provided to this service  and I 
havent seen any evidence that shows these letters were returned as undelivered. So I think 
its likely F did receive them.
F told us that as a result of HSBCs actions they had regular monthly payments that were 
returned or cancelled which had impacted an insurance claim. F also told us that because 
they werent aware the account was closed, they paid in additional funds to cover the 
monthly payments and they didnt know where their money had gone after the account had 
been closed. However, Ive seen that the bank explained in both the July and September 
letters, that when the account was closed, this would mean the withdrawal of all related 
services including internet banking. 
The account terms also make clear that when an account is closed, all benefits will end  
which would include the use of the card reader and regular payments. It goes on to say that 
the account holder is responsible for reviewing any regular payments - unless these are 
being moved under the account switching service - which wasnt the case here. The letters also say that any credit balances will be sent via cheque to the address held by the bank 
unless directed otherwise by F. I can see that it took several months for HSBC to send the 
cheque to the company, however from notes and emails provided by both parties, this 
appears to be because F was in ongoing discussions with the bank from October onwards 
about the account closure. 
So it follows that as I think it was reasonable for HSBC to close Fs account when it did, and 
that it communicated this to F in a reasonable manner, I also think it was fair that the bank 
didnt pay the companys regular monthly payments. Therefore HSBC isnt responsible for 
any losses caused to F as a result of these payments not being made or inconvenience 
caused when the facilities linked to the account stopped working.   
Mr S told us he is unhappy that despite numerous requests, HSBC didnt pass Fs complaint 
to senior staff to investigate. I acknowledge that this caused frustration to F, however, its for 
HSBC to decide its escalation process for complaints and its a commercial decision its able 
to make. And Im sorry to disappoint F but as complaint handling isnt an activity we cover, 
the Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider this part of their complaint.
I recognise that F feels strongly about this, and its director and secretary will be disappointed 
with my decision. But based on everything Ive seen I dont think HSBC did anything wrong 
in closing Fs account or the actions it took in both making and from that decision. So I wont 
be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman