DRN-1957779
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the service he received from Provident Personal Credit Limit 
(trading as Provident) in relation to the problems he had when repaying his loan. Mr C said 
due to the problems he had, he was left with no choice but to settle the loan early.
What happened
Mr C was approved for his final loan of £2,500 loan in May 2019. The loan was to be repaid 
in 104 weekly repayments of £57.50. Mr C repaid the loan in full in January 2020.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Cs complaint. She agreed that Provident could have 
provided better service and that Mr C had been inconvenienced as a result of the issues he 
experienced. But she didnt think Mr C lost out significantly as a result of these issues.
The adjudicator felt that Providents offer of £50 compensation as well as its apology was fair 
in these circumstances. So, she didnt ask Provident to do more than what it already offered. 
Provident appears to have accepted our adjudicators opinion. Mr C asked for his complaint 
to be looked into again but didnt provide any further comments or evidence for this service 
to consider.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loan was provided.
Provident has accepted that something went wrong in its dealing with Mr C which is why it 
sent him a cheque for £50. In this decision Ill focus on whether Provident needs to do 
anything else.
To start with, it seems that Mr C had an arrangement whereby Provident would come to his 
home to collect his loan repayments on the last Friday of the month. These payments 
represented the payments due for the whole month. But the agent went on holiday and no 
one turned up to collect the payment from Mr C in September 2019. Then a couple of weeks 
later, a different agent turned up at Mr Cs door advising him of the arrears on his account. 
Mr C says this agent didnt have their identification badge. 
From this point, and after the visit from the second agent, Mr C had to make repayments for 
the loan over the phone and then text the agent when the payment had been made. Mr C 
was unhappy about this, because it wasnt what he had signed up to  which were door 
steps payments. And It seems that due to Mr Cs unhappiness with the situation he arranged 
to repay the loan balance, in full, at the end of January 2020. 
The statement of account shows the way Mr C ran his loan didnt result in any additional late 
fees or charges were added as a result of the missed repayment for September 2019. We 
asked Mr C about his credit file and whether there was an impact on that. After all, Mr C was 
expecting an agent to come to his door to collect his repayment. And an agent failed to do 
so. But to be clear, I am not making a finding as to whether any adverse credit file exists.  
Its clear to me, and is accepted by Provident, that Mr C was inconvenienced by what 
happened. For example, someone didnt collect the payment when arranged and then Mr C 
had been inconvenienced and had to take time out to make calls to Provident in order for 
him to make his repayments  rather than paying the agent directly. 
I appreciate Mr C wants 10% of the balance he repaid as he had to put in ten complaints 
about the service he has received. Ive carefully thought about this. But I dont think the 
settlement Mr C wants is warranted in the circumstances of this case.
The awards that we may make for trouble and upset are not designed to punish Provident 
for an error(s) that have been made. Any award we may recommend is designed to reflect 
any inconvenience that an individual has experienced. 
Ultimately, I think the lenders offer to pay £50 is fair and reasonable, taking into account the 
inconvenience that Mr C experienced  which Ive outlined above. However, If Provident has 
not paid the £50 to Mr C, then I instruct it to do so. But if Provident has already made the 
payment then it doesnt need to do anything more.
I appreciate Mr C may be disappointment by my decision and that this wasnt the outcome 
he was hoping for, but I hope he understand why I have reached the decision that I have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
But if Provident Personal Credit Limited hasnt paid the compensation it previously offered 
then it should now arrange to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman