DRN-4211362
The complaint
Mrs F complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and the way they 
handled the claim she made on her motor insurance policy, following a road traffic accident.
What happened
Mrs F held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by AIC. Unfortunately, on 18 November 
2022, Mrs F was involved in a road traffic accident which damaged her car. So, she 
contacted AIC to make a claim on the policy she held.
Based on the damage Mrs F described, and the circumstances of the accident, AIC 
assumed the car was most likely repairable. So, AIC instructed a third-party company, who 
Ill refer to as E, to arrange the car repairs. And E subcontracted this work to another party, 
who Ill refer to as X. As both E and X were acting on behalf of AIC, AIC remain ultimately 
responsible for the service they provided.
But Mrs F encountered difficulties during the claim process from this point. The repairs 
required to her car werent authorised until 24 February 2023, with the repairs completing the 
following month. Mrs F was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs F was unhappy with how long it had taken for her claim to progress. And she was 
unhappy with the level of communication shed received during this time and the 
inconvenience shed been caused because of this. So, she wanted to be compensated 
financially.
Initially, AIC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the delays in 
arranging repairs to Mrs Fs car had been caused by Mrs F herself, and her availability due 
to a pre-planned holiday. So, they didnt offer to do anything more. Mrs F remained unhappy 
with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. Our investigator didnt think theyd 
seen evidence to suggest the delays in the claim process were the fault of Mrs F. So, based 
on Mrs Fs testimony and considering the fact AIC hadnt provided information when 
requested, our investigator thought AIC should pay Mrs F £300 to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience shed been caused.
AIC didnt agree with this level of compensation. Following our investigators 
recommendation, AIC responded providing the information our investigator had originally 
requested. And alongside this information, AIC accepted they had failed to progress the 
claim, and update Mrs F, as well as they couldve done. But they explained their belief that 
£150 compensation was a fairer offer, considering Mrs F remained mobile during the delays.
This offer was put to Mrs F, who rejected it. So, our investigator considered AICs comments 
and the information they provided. And having done so, their recommendation remained 
unchanged. They were satisfied the majority of the delays during the claim process were the 
fault of AIC and their agents. And they didnt think Mrs F being mobile meant the 
compensation should be lowered, especially considering the car was deemed unsafe to 
drive when it was eventually inspected. So, our investigator maintained AIC should pay Mrs 
F £300.
Mrs F accepted this recommendation. But AIC didnt respond. As AIC didnt respond, our 
service must assume the recommendation has been rejected. And so, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I note that initially, AIC didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint. And that the claim progressed after 
Mrs F came to our service. But Im satisfied that as Mrs Fs complaint centres around the 
claim progression, our service should consider all of the events up to the cars repair.
And, Im satisfied that AIC have been given the chance to provide their comments about this 
entire period, as they provided us with information to consider after our investigators initial 
view alongside an offer to resolve the complaint.
In this offer, I note AIC have accepted they, or their agents they are responsible for, failed to 
progress the claim effectively. And, that they couldve communicated with Mrs F better 
during this time. So, Im satisfied AIC acted unfairly and unreasonably when progressing the 
claim and updating Mrs F. As this is no longer in dispute, I wont be discussing the merits of 
the complaint issues themselves any further.
Instead, Ive focused on the main point that does remain in dispute which centres around 
what AIC should reasonably do to put things right. 
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mrs F back in the position she wouldve 
been in, had AIC acted fairly in the first place.
Had AIC acted fairly, I think they wouldve acted more proactively to ensure Mrs Fs car was 
inspected and repaired sooner. And, when doing this, I think they wouldve taken steps to 
update Mrs F, rather than wait for Mrs F to contact them.
Had they done this, I think Mrs F wouldve had a fully repaired car available to her before 
March 2023. And I dont think Mrs F wouldve needed to have chased AIC, and their agents, 
on multiple occasions to understand what was going on and when her car would be repaired.
So, I think Mrs F should be compensated for the delays she experienced during the claim 
process. From what I can see, I think there was at least three months of delays during the 
claim process, whether that be down to the first garage rejecting the work or X working with 
a new garage to agree rates. On both occasions, I dont think Mrs F was responsible for 
these delays and it was instead the responsibility of AIC to manage. And I think these delays 
wouldve been both upsetting and frustrating for Mrs F during that time.
I think Mrs F should also be compensated for the inconvenience shes been caused chasing all of the parties involved to gain a greater understanding of what was happening. This 
wouldve taken both time and effort I wouldnt have expected Mrs F to have needed to use, 
had AIC acted fairly.
Our investigator recommended that AIC pay Mrs F £300 to recognise the upset and 
inconvenience shes been caused, which Mrs F accepted. And I think this recommendation 
is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach, and what I wouldve directed had it 
not already been put forward.
I think it fairly reflects the upset and inconvenience Ive already listed above. And I dont 
think it should be impacted by the fact Mrs F remained mobile, as she remained mobile in a 
car that it transpires wasnt roadworthy and shouldnt have been used. I think the £300 
adequately addresses the shock and upset Mrs F is likely to have felt when she realised she 
had continued to drive her car from November 2022  February 2023 when it was unsafe to 
do so. And I think it reflects the fact that, had AIC acted as they shouldve done, the repairs 
wouldve been completed sooner and so, the danger posed to Mrs F during this time 
wouldve been mitigated.
So, I am directing AIC to pay Mrs F £300 to recognise all of the above.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Fs complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs F £300 to recognise the upset and inconvenience shes been caused during 
the process to repair her damaged car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman