DRN-2787366
The complaint
Mrs U says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited trading as Mutual lent to 
her irresponsibly. Mrs U says that she was unable to make the loan repayments and 
this adversely affected her finances.  
 
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Mutual disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mrs Us complaint shouldnt be upheld. A copy 
of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics.  
This complaint is about four home collected loans Mutual provided to Mrs U between 
August 2016 and May 2017.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedweekly 
termdate ended
1 20/08/16 £200 51 08/03/17
2 03/12/16 £400 51 outstanding
3 25/02/17 £500 102 outstanding
4 13/05/17 £150 51 outstanding
Mrs U had some problems repaying her final three loans, and based on the most recent 
information provided to us by Mutual an outstanding balance remains.
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Mutual shouldnt have 
approved loans 3 and 4. This was because he thought the repayments Mrs U was 
committed to making were too high a proportion of her declared income.
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Ive read in total what Mutual has said. I 
havent reproduced a summary of it as Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly speaking, this all 
means that Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs U could 
repay her loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a point where the lending 
history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, Im intending to reach a different 
outcome to adjudicator. I dont presently think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why 
below.
For loan 1 Mrs U needed to repay around £5.50 a week, the weekly repayments for loans 2, 3 and 
4 were £11, £7.50 and £4 respectively. Ive rounded these amounts to the nearest 50p.
Its important to note that Mrs U only managed to fully repay loan 1. Loans 1 to 3 were 
running at the same time and so were loans 2 to 4.
Loans 1 and 2
Ive seen a record of the information Mrs U provided when she completed her loan applications 
for loans 1 and 2. And Ill talk about this in a bit more detail later when I look at loans 3 and 4. But 
I think its reasonable to say that the checks Mutual did were proportionate for these loans and 
these checks showed these loans were affordable for Mrs U.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Mutual was made aware of any 
financial problems Mrs U mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Mutual to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So, largely for the same reasons as our adjudicator Im not upholding Mrs Us complaint about 
these loans. I note Mrs U didnt disagree with the adjudicators findings about these loans.
Loans 3 and 4
I think the increase in lending, when considered against Mrs Us income, does point to likely 
financial problems. So, I agree that Mutual shouldve been making better checks from loan 3 
onwards. But I havent seen enough to enable me to say with any degree of certainty what further 
checks wouldve shown Mutual. So, I wont be able to uphold Mrs Us complaint on the basis the 
checks Mutual did werent proportionate.
Our adjudicator thought that the amount Mrs U was contracted to repay Mutual was too high when 
compared to her income for loans 3 and 4. There is no direct reference to this in the FCAs rules 
and guidance. But the loan repayments should be sustainable, as Ive outlined above. Clearly if a 
consumer is paying more than is reasonable then the repayments are unlikely to be sustainable as 
they wont be able to afford them.
Mrs U had an income of around £186 a week. And the application information shows that this was 
comprised of benefits only. Mutual also took details of Mrs Us partners income but the loans were 
taken out in her name alone and Ive seen no persuasive evidence, from the time of sale, that her 
partner would contribute to the repayment of these loans. So, I dont think its fair to consider 
affordability using their joint income.
Mutual recorded Mrs Us household expenditure as being £130 a week. As this is household 
expenditure it is fair, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, that she would pay half of this 
which is around £65. There isnt a great amount of detail about Mrs Us expenditure and some of 
the information that has been provided during the complaint is contradictory. If Mrs U wants to 
provide some further information Ill be happy to consider it before reaching my final decision. But 
in summary the amounts I have seen show that Mrs U had a disposable income of around £121 
each week.
By loan 3 Mrs U was making a commitment to repay around £24 a week, this fell to £23 a week 
for loan 4. This would be or at least at least the next six months. Given the amounts Ive outlined 
above, and that she had around £121 of disposable income each week. I dont think this is too 
great an amount to repay each month.
So I also dont think it was unreasonable for Mutual to approve loans 3 and 4 due to the size of the 
repayments. So Im also not upholding her complaint about these loans.Mutual, and Mrs Us representative, received my provisional decision. And no one had 
anything to add after theyd seen it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual, and Mrs U, didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. I 
therefore see no reason to depart from the findings I made in the provisional decision. So, 
Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman