DRN-2956044
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) set up a payment 
arrangement on her credit card when she thought she had been given a payment break. She 
also says she shouldve been given a payment break.   
What happened
In 2019 Miss D was having difficulty in keeping up with the payments on her credit card with 
Creation. She contacted Creation and had two calls with it. They went through her finances 
to see how much she could afford to pay. It was agreed that she could pay a monthly 
amount of £5 but Creation and Miss D disagree about the terms of the arrangement. Miss D 
says that Creation agreed to a payment break, which meant her account would be placed on 
hold, and she wouldnt have to make payments, but could if she wanted to.
Creation say that the arrangement was a more formal arrangement, and Miss D had to make 
a payment of £5 every month. This is how the arrangement was documented in Creations 
internal records and in a letter to Miss D.
Miss D didnt keep up monthly payments, and Creation sent her letters asking for payment 
which said shed broken the arrangement with them.
Miss D complained because she said she had been told the account had been put on hold 
for six months and thought there shouldnt have been any collections activity on her account. 
Creation disagreed, and said it was clear that Miss D was on a payment arrangement. It 
didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint but as a gesture of goodwill it refunded all charges and fees 
applied to the account between September 2019 and April 2020, totalling £211.15.
Miss D was not happy with this response and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at the available evidence and had to rely on Creations file notes as it 
no longer had the call recordings. He considered what Miss D had told him, and the 
available evidence from Creation, and concluded that Miss D did agree to pay £5 each 
month, and that Creation had not agreed to put the account on hold. He didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Miss D was unhappy with this and asked for an Ombudsman to review the case, so it came 
to me to decide. As I considered issues that hadnt been referred to by our investigator, I 
issued a provisional decision, which is set out below:
As I dont have the call recordings that would show what was said about Creations 
arrangement with Miss D, I have to reach a conclusion based on the information I have. I 
can see that Miss D says she was told that her account was put on hold for 6 months, and 
that she only had to make a payment if she could. I understand that this is what she recalls, 
but I have to look at all of the evidence and circumstances at the time.
Creations notes show that in the two conversations, there was an assessment of what Miss 
D could afford to pay. The notes do not detail the full conversation, but I can see that on both 
occasions Miss D offered to pay £5 a month. I can see from the first conversation that 
Creation thought Miss D had £131 disposable income, so would normally require a minimum 
of £52.97 a month. The notes for this call mention that Miss D said she was suffering from ill 
health and had been signed off work for six months. The notes for the second call show that 
Creation was willing to accept £5 due to circumstances. The notes dont say what this 
refers to, but I can see that the period of the arrangement is consistent with the information 
about Miss D being off work.
The details of the arrangement are recorded in Creations internal notes, and a letter was 
sent out confirming this. I think its unlikely that Creations internal notes, and the letter sent 
out to Miss D, would record something fundamentally different to what was agreed. In the 
light of this, I think that its more likely than not that a payment arrangement was agreed for 
payments of £5 a month between August 2019 and January 2020, rather than an agreement 
that Miss D could pay if she wanted during this time.
Miss D says she was in negative financial status, and that the financial assessment done 
by Creation was incorrect. I have seen the detail of the assessment carried out by Creation, 
and it does reflect the call notes, so I have no reason to think that it doesnt reflect the 
information that Miss D provided. However, I do think that the very low figure of £50 a month 
allocated to housekeeping could reasonably have prompted further questioning by 
Creation, to ensure that it had an accurate picture of Miss Ds circumstances. But having 
said that, even if this had been increased substantially, for example to £150, the £5 offered 
would still have been affordable. So, I cant fairly say that the available evidence suggests 
that Miss D had no disposable income or that Creation set up an unaffordable arrangement.
Miss D has also mentioned her health issues. She had told Creation about this, and she had 
previously been dealt with by its specialist team. But, at the time of the arrangement, her 
account was with Creations customer support team, which deals with customers in financial 
difficulties. This was because Miss D hadnt provided any medical evidence of her condition 
to enable the specialist team to continue to deal with her account. I cant say that this was 
unfair of Creation, as it had requested this information, and didnt have the information it 
needed to enable it to consider whether a different course of action was appropriate.
Miss D says that Creation should not have carried out any collections activity because the 
payments were voluntary. In the light of what I have already said, I cant agree with this. The 
evidence Ive seen shows that there was a fair payment arrangement, the details of which 
had been confirmed to Miss D, and I cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable of Creation 
to contact Miss D when she didnt keep to the arrangement.
In her initial complaint to Creation, Miss D mentioned that she was concerned about the 
potential impact on her credit file but had not seen any adverse impact at that time. She 
hasnt provided any further information on this, so I have not been able to consider that point 
any further. In any event, as I cant see that Creation acted unfairly in setting up a payment 
arrangement, I cant say that it would have been unfair of Creation to record the status of 
Miss Ds account.
When Miss D complained to Creation, her account was put on hold while it considered her 
complaint, and I think this was the right thing to do pending the outcome of its investigation. 
As a gesture of goodwill, Creation refunded all charges up to the date of its final response. 
This wasnt something Creation had to do, but it was a helpful action in the light of Miss Ds 
circumstances.
In her response to our investigators view Miss D said there had been errors when a revised 
financial check was carried out, but then said that her account had been put on the correct 
hold, so as far as I can see, Miss Ds complaint remains about what happened in 2019.After considering the various issues raised, I cant say that Creation acted unfairly in its 
dealings with Miss D, so I do not intend to ask it to do any more.
I considered everything that Miss D and Creation have said and provided since my 
provisional decision, and in the light of that, I issued a second provisional decision 
addressing the additional points which I summarise as follows;
I reviewed the evidence as to the nature of the agreement to pay £5, noting the unavailability 
of call recordings, and remained of the view that the available evidence supported a 
commitment to pay £5 each month for 6 months. In the light of this, I also thought Creation 
was entitled to record payments that were missed on Miss Ds credit file.
I looked at the financial statement where Miss D was concerned about how mortgage 
commitments had been dealt with.  I could see that it said Miss Ds mortgage was on hold, 
and that this was why no payment was allocated to it. The call notes suggest there was 
discussion about this but are inconclusive as to exactly what was said. As Miss Ds 
mortgage was documented as on hold until January, I didnt think it unreasonable for a 
payment arrangement to be agreed for £5. Miss D thought a further assessment had been 
carried out, but I couldnt see any evidence of this.   
Miss D commented on the fact that Creation said in its final response that it didnt offer 
payment holds but told her subsequently that if there was no disposable income, it would do 
so. While I could see that there was some inconsistency in what Creation said then and at 
other times, my view remained that this of itself didnt show that Creation had done anything 
wrong in putting Miss D on a payment arrangement.
I noted that Miss D had provided a sick note to Creation at the time of her complaint, but that 
her account had previously been moved from the specialist team to the customer support 
team as she hadnt provided medical records when requested to do so by Creation.  
Miss D complained of delays in dealing with her case. I thought that there hadnt been 
significant delays, and that Creation had fairly told Miss D of her right to bring her case to our 
service while it investigated further. However, I saw that Creation hadnt replied to Miss Ds 
email in June 2020, after saying it would investigate further, which wasnt the level of service 
Miss D wouldve expected.  
Miss D raised issues about what happened when her account needed to be re-assessed 
after Creation had responded to this complaint. I said these were not part of this complaint 
and would need to be raised separately with Creation as a new complaint.
I said I didnt intend to uphold the main parts of Miss Ds complaint, but that Creation 
shouldve responded to her as it had agreed to do and should pay £50 compensation her for 
this service issue.
Miss D has responded further on several points, namely the nature of the arrangement with 
Creation, issues with the financial assessment, and the way that her account shouldve been 
dealt with in the light of what Creation had said to her about its processes.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D provided a detailed response to my second provisional decision, but after considering 
what she provided, I havent changed my view on the main part of her complaint. The 
evidence is conflicting so I cant categorically say what happened in the course of this case, 
and I do understand Miss Ds frustration at the unavailability of the call recordings which has 
made it more difficult to establish the facts. In the circumstances, I have to base my decision 
on what the available evidence suggests is more likely than not to have happened. 
Miss Ds further comments and information centre on the following points:
Evidence of the arrangement made
Miss D says that the call notes and template letters dont evidence a payment plan for £5 a 
month. Creations notes from the calls in July and August 2019 both refer to an offer of £5. 
Miss D says this doesnt show that £5 was to be paid each month. While it is correct that the 
word monthly is not included in the notes, the other information Ive seen supports the 
conclusion that this was what was agreed. The internal notes show the payment schedule, 
which reflects a payment of £5 in each of the next six months. While Creation have only 
been able to provide templates of the letters sent, its system notes show that a letter 
confirming a payment plan was sent to Miss D in early August 2019.   
While the template doesnt contain the details specific to Miss D, it sets out the framework 
for a plan requiring specified payments in successive months over a specified duration, with 
variable fields for the inclusion of those details. I think it is reasonable to conclude that this 
wouldve been populated with the payment schedule recorded in Creations internal notes. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Creations correspondence records are incorrect, and 
accordingly I am satisfied that the evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that a 
letter detailing the payment plan was sent to Miss D.
In summary, I remain of the view that the evidence shows that its more likely than not that a 
payment plan was agreed.
Creations use of payment holds 
Miss D commented again on what Creation has said in the course of its dealings with her 
about its use of payment arrangements and payment holds. As I said previously, this is only 
material if on the basis of the information Creation held, Miss D had no disposable income. I 
have considered this below.         
The financial statement  
Miss D says the treatment of her mortgage in the financial statement was incorrect, and that 
the notes of the August call show this. 
The financial statement is dated July 2019, and it noted that Miss Ds mortgage was on hold 
until January (2020) and consequently didnt include a payment amount for the mortgage.  
Miss D says that she told Creation that she had tried to get a six-month payment holiday on 
her mortgage, but it was rejected. She says Creation must have misheard or mis-interpreted 
what she said and wrongly recorded that she had a payment holiday. She mentions that the 
call notes say the agent couldnt hear Miss D in support of this. I can see that the call notes 
say that the agent couldnt tell Miss D the outcome of the financial assessment because they 
couldnt hear her, but from what I can see, this only happened after the assessment had 
been completed , so I havent seen anything to suggest that this was an issue during the rest of the call. 
Miss D has provided copies of correspondence that show that she had a concessionary 
arrangement with her mortgage company for two months from June 2019, and that after this 
ended, she discussed further arrangements with them. It shows that she then made a 
proposal in September 2019 for a further two-month payment holiday, with payments starting 
again in November 2019. This was rejected in October, but this happened after the 
conversations with Creation. This gives some background, but doesnt reflect exactly what 
was recorded by Creation, or what Miss D says she told them. 
I have to decide what is most likely to have been said during the call in July 2019 based on 
what Ive seen. The financial statement recorded by Creation, and the information most 
recently provided by Miss D both indicate that Miss D had a mortgage payment holiday in 
place in July 2019, so I think it is more likely than not that Miss D said she had a payment 
holiday at that time. The payment plan with Creation covered a six-month period to January 
2020 and Miss D hasnt suggested that a different period was discussed with Creation. In the 
light of all of this, I think its more likely than not this was the period discussed. Taking 
account of all of this, I think its more likely than not that the financial statement was an 
accurate record of the discussion about the mortgage during the July 2019 call.      
Miss D says that Creation shouldve taken account of her mortgage payments in any event 
as they are a priority payment. As Ive said previously, I dont think it was unfair to agree of 
Creation to agree a payment plan for the small sum of £5 on the basis that she was able to 
pay this during a period when she was not required to make mortgage payments.         
The arrangement was set up during a call in August 2019 and is evidently based on the July 
2019 financial statement. However, I can see that there was some further discussion during 
the call in August 2019 and Miss D says that the financial statement was finalised during this 
call and was to be corrected.  
Creations notes state that it wasnt correct that Miss D was paying £0 towards her mortgage 
and that she pays towards this when she can. Ive said that I thought it was likely this 
statement reflected that Miss D said that it wasnt correct that she didnt pay anything 
towards her mortgage because she did pay when she could. I remain of this view, and as 
such, I dont think that this suggests that the financial statement was incorrect as it isnt 
inconsistent with monthly payments being on hold. 
Miss D says she provided her monthly mortgage payment details during the August 2019 
call and was led to understand that the agent updated the statement accordingly. But the 
only statement Creation have on record is the July 2019 statement. Miss D also says there 
are multiple other errors in the financial statement, which if corrected would show she had no 
disposable income.  She says she understood that these were being corrected.  As the 
information recorded isnt consistent with what Miss D has told this service was said, I have 
to decide what is more likely than not to have been said on this call. Although the 
documentation provided by Miss D shows that some of Miss Ds outgoing were greater than 
stated, there is no record of these figures, or mortgage repayments being discussed. 
Creations notes record the comments about the mortgage that I have already mentioned but 
no other discussion or figures are referred to in the call notes and I havent seen any 
evidence of further communication between Miss D and Creation about this at the time. 
Accordingly, I cant fairly say that Creation shouldve taken this into account.  
Miss D comments on the brevity and general standard of the call notes as indicating the 
likelihood of error on the part of Creation. I am not convinced that short notes, and 
grammatical errors mean that information is likely to be mis-recorded. Additionally, while the 
notes are short, the detail of the financial assessment is in the financial statement that was taken over the phone in July 2019.  Miss D also says that Creation made errors in a 
subsequent financial assessment, making it likely there were errors in this case.  I am not 
persuaded on this point and have looked at this case on its own facts.  
In summary, my view remains that a payment plan was agreed, and that Creation didnt act 
in error or unfairly in setting it up and taking follow up action.
I know that Miss D will be disappointed with this, but I hope she can understand my reasons. 
I do understand Miss Ds frustration at the unavailability of the recordings of the two calls. 
Miss D had asked Creation to provide the call recordings at a time when they wouldve been 
available and they would have provided clearer evidence. Miss D was put to considerable 
time and trouble due to their unavailability, and its fair and reasonable that Creation 
compensate her for this. In my provisional decision, I said I was intending to award £50 in 
respect of Creations service shortcomings, but I am increasing this to £150 to take account 
of the particular inconvenience caused by this issue and have communicated this to Creation 
separately. 
Putting things right
Although I am not upholding the main part of Miss Ds complaint, I am requiring Creation to 
pay £150 to compensate for the time and trouble caused by the shortcomings in the service 
provided by Creation.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in so far as it relates to the service provided 
by Creation Financial Services Limited to Miss D.
I require Creation Financial Services Limited to pay £150 directly to Miss D to compensate 
for the time and trouble caused by its service failings.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman