DRN-4413283
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) acted 
inappropriately when dealing with the pension of his late partner, Mr B.
Upon being notified of Mr Bs death Standard Life sold the investments held within his 
pension before transferring these to a beneficiary pension opened by Mr O. This was against 
Mr Os instructions who had asked for the funds to remain invested.
Due to investment price movements over the time the funds were held in cash, Mr O has 
estimated that the pension lost around £190,000 of growth that would have been added to 
the pension but for Standard Lifes decision to encash the funds.
Mr O has stated that he does not believe Standard Life took reasonable steps to minimise or 
eliminate the need for the funds to be out of the market.
What happened
On 27 July 2022 Mr O informed Standard Life that his partner, Mr B, had passed away.
On 29 July 2022 Standard Life contacted Mr O to provide the current death benefit value of 
the policy and state that the exact value of the policy would be confirmed once all the 
underlying investments were sold. This email also asked Mr O to provide various documents 
that Standard Life needed to make their decision as to who would benefit from the policy 
proceeds.
All the underlying investments within the pension were sold the same day.
Later on 29 July 2022 Mr O replied to Standard Life and asked them not to sell the 
investments. The documentation and information requested by Standard Life was also 
provided at this time.
Mr O contacted Standard Life over the phone on 1 August 2022 to restate the point that he 
did not want the investments to be sold.
Standard Life called Mr O the following day to explain the process that needed to be 
followed and stated that the funds could not be moved in-specie and had to be sold.
On 3 August 2022 Standard Life contacted Mr O to confirm that their discretionary decision 
as to who would receive the pension funds had been completed, and that they had 
concluded Mr O would receive the entirety of the funds. The email sent also confirmed the 
death benefit value and provided Mr O with his options for the monies. As Mr O had 
previously confirmed a desire for a beneficiary drawdown plan an application form was 
attached to this email alongside a leaflet with further instructions. Mr Os financial adviser 
was copied into the email.
The application form was received back by Standard Life on 9 August 2022.
The beneficiary pension was opened on 11 August 2022 and monies were paid in on the 
following day. Introductory paperwork was then issued on 15 August 2022.
Standard Life issued their response to Mr Os complaint on 12 September 2022. This 
response rejected the complaint.
Standard Life noted that Mr Bs pension had been invested in Standard Life Insured Funds 
and the terms and conditions of the policy stated that these funds could not be transferred 
in-specie. Additionally, they believed that they had minimised the time the funds were out of 
the market by setting the new beneficiary drawdown plan up on 11 August 2022  2 days 
after the application form had been received.
Unhappy with the response provided Mr O referred his complaint to this service on 
9 March 2023.
Our investigator looked into things but did not believe Standard Life had acted unreasonably.
Our investigator noted that Mr Bs pension policy had been set up under a discretionary trust 
and as such Mr O did not have control over the funds until the trustees (Standard Life) had 
made their decision regarding who should receive the pension monies. Following receipt of 
the requested information on 29 July 2022 this was completed on 3 August 2022, a 
timescale which was considered reasonable.
From receipt of the new beneficiary drawdown account documentation on 9 August 2022 our 
investigator noted the new plan was set up by 11 August 2022  again a timescale 
considered reasonable.
The investigator also noted the policy terms and conditions section 12.1 stated:
After were notified of your death well normally:
a) sell all of the assets held for you under the scheme; and
b) pay the cash proceeds into the trustee cash account;
before distributing them to your beneciaries or using them to provide a pension for your 
beneficiaries.
The fact the above states assets would normally be sold was considered further with the 
investigator concluding that this was to allow for circumstances where investments could not 
be sold (illiquid investments for example) rather than circumstances where a potential 
beneficiary did not want investments to be sold. 
Overall, our investigator concluded that Standard Life had acted in line with the policy terms 
and conditions and completed their steps in the process in a timely manner.
Mr O did not agree and raised further questions. 
Firstly, Mr O queried why it took Standard Life until 3 August 2022 to make their decision as 
to the beneficiary of the policy. Secondly it was questioned why it took Standard Life so long 
to reinvest the funds in the beneficiary pension after this decision had been made. Mr O also 
questioned the use of the word normally within the pensions terms and conditions, noting 
that this was open to interpretation leaving the possibility that Standard Life did have the 
option to use discretion and facilitate the in-specie transfer of the investment funds. Mr O 
also noted that it was clear in these specific circumstances that he would be the beneficiary 
of Mr Bs policy and as such the decision could have been made immediately with his wishes to remain the market respected.
Finally, Mr O stated that he felt the overall conclusion reached was unfair and that Standard 
Life should have done more in circumstances such as his, where the widow was the sole 
beneficiary. Mr O felt he had been clear about what he wanted to happen, and the outcome 
reached suggested he should not have notified Standard Life about his partners death until a 
beneficiary pension form had been completed to minimise investment market risk.
Our investigator responded to each of these comments in turn. 
Regarding the length of time taken by Standard Life to make their decision as to the 
beneficiary of the pension, our investigator stated this timescale was considered reasonable.
It was noted the information Standard Life had requested had been provided at 17:57 on 
29 July 2022. The decision was made on 3 August 2022, three working days later. Whilst 
Mr O had made his complaint on 1 August 2022; the three-day timeframe was still 
considered reasonable.
On the point regarding the time taken to open the beneficiary pension after the decision had 
been made on 3 August 2022, our investigator noted that the email confirmation issued to 
Mr O (and his financial adviser) on that date had included the relevant application form. This 
was received back by Standard Life on 9 August 2022. The investigator stated it was not 
reasonable to hold Standard Life responsible for the time between 3 and 9 August 2022, with 
the time taken in processing the application form (once received) considered reasonable. 
Once the application form was received the new plan was set up on 11 August 2022  2 
working days later. 
When considering the use of the word normally within the policy terms and conditions our 
investigator stated that the email sent by Standard Life on 29 July 2022 was clear that the 
investments would be sold. Whilst the investigator accepted that Mr O did not want the 
monies to be out of the investment markets, Standard Lifes approach protected the value of 
the pension fund until a decision as to the beneficiary had been made. Whilst in this instance 
investment markets rose during the interim period, our investigator concluded that Standard 
Life did act reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
In response to the final point made by Mr O, our investigator stated that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is an informal complaint resolution service and not the financial 
services regulator (The Financial Conduct Authority) and as such it was not our role to tell a 
business how to administer their policies or conduct their business. In this case the 
investigator concluded there were no unreasonable delays or errors in the way Standard Life 
had dealt with Mr Os claim. 
Mr O did not agree with the additional commentary provided by our investigator and asked 
further questions. Firstly, given Standard Lifes actions had been considered reasonable 
Mr O queried who got to decide what was reasonable, and secondly, why there were 
differences in the available investments between the original and new pensions.
In response to these queries our investigator stated that when assessing the merits of a 
case various factors are considered when determining what is reasonable including the type 
of transaction, any relevant regulatory guidance, good industry practice, business service 
standards, and the particular circumstances of any given case. In this instance, whilst there 
are no specific rules covering time limits a business must adhere to, it had been concluded 
that there were no unreasonable delays on Standard Lifes part.Regarding the question about the differing investments between the late Mr Bs pension and 
the new beneficiary pension it was confirmed that one was a group self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) whilst the new beneficiary pension was a personal SIPP.
Following this, Mr O asked what common practice among other providers in similar 
circumstances was, especially given other investments (taxable investments and ISAs) were 
left invested and passed to Mr O after probate. Additionally, Mr O questioned whether 
Standard Life had followed the best execution rule and acted in his best interests. Finally, 
Mr O questioned the terms and conditions of the pension policy. This related to the use or 
normally as discussed above and clause 15.9 of the terms and conditions which stated:
Instead of us selling investments under section 15.3 or 15.7, you (or a beneficiary or 
successor) can ask us to transfer the ownership of selected investments from the trustee to 
the trustees of the receiving scheme. This does not apply to any Standard Life investment 
policy funds or your holding in the trustee cash account
Mr O noted the above but stated that given most of the investment codes between Mr Bs 
pension and his subsequent beneficiary pension were the same, Standard Lifes use of this 
clause with their complaint response did not make sense, with Mr O confirming his 
interpretation of this clause was that it applied to external transfers away from Standard Life 
and not a transfer to another Standard Life pension as was the case here. 
Our investigator confirmed these additional points had been added to the file for 
consideration by me.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
I would like to start by passing my sincere condolences to Mr O.
To reach a decision in this case I have looked at each stage of the process outlined above 
and assessed whether Standard Lifes actions were reasonable and in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
Upon being informed that Mr B had passed away Standard Life proceeded to encash the 
investments held within his pension. I appreciate that Mr O had made Standard Life aware of 
his intention to keep the investments and had requested they not be encashed, however as 
explained by our investigator the pension policy was set up under a discretionary trust.
Upon being informed of Mr Bs death, it fell to the trustees (Standard Life) to decide who 
would benefit from the pension monies. The structure of such pensions mean they fall 
outside of the policyholders estate and as such are not covered by any instructions that may 
have been left in a will.
To try and ensure that the proceeds are distributed fairly upon the death of a policyholder, 
providers / trustees do ask policyholders to complete an expression of wish form detailing 
who they would like funds to be paid to in the event of their death. However, the trustees 
retain the right to use their discretion with any expression of wish not legally binding.
Given this, Mr O only had effective ownership of the policy proceeds after Standard Life had 
made their decision regarding who the beneficiary of the policy was going to be.
This decision was finalised on 3 August 2022.
I have noted Mr Os point that given the relevant paperwork was provided on 29 July 2022 
and that he was Mr Bs civil partner, a dependant, the named beneficiary on the nomination form and the sole beneficiary of his will, this decision should have been made sooner if not 
immediately.
However, I do not consider the three working day timeframe unreasonable. After receipt of 
the paperwork, this would then have to be checked, assessed and then a decision made.
Whilst I appreciate the decision in this case seems relatively straightforward, I consider it 
reasonable to allow a business time to ensure the accuracy of their work whilst maintaining 
service standards to all their other customers.
In addition, selling the investments upon Mr Bs death is consistent with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
I note that section 12.1 does include the word normally which indicates there may be 
specific circumstances where investments would not be sold in the event of the 
policyholders death. However, there is no evidence that such circumstances were present in 
this case. As per the rationale provided by our investigator, I consider the most likely set of 
circumstances which may result in investments not being sold in the event of death to 
involve complex underlying investments which may not be easily sold.
Additionally, with regard to section 15.9, this clearly states that investments in Standard Life 
Investment policy funds cannot be transferred in-specie. Whilst Mr Os reading of this has 
led him to conclude that this relates only to transfers outside of Standard Life, the terms and 
conditions themselves simply state that in-specie transfers of those funds is not possible.
Overall, the terms and conditions of the policy show that the overwhelming likelihood in the 
event of a policyholders death would be that investments would be sold, with this course of 
action being communicated to Mr O in Standard Lifes email of 29 July 2022.
I agree with the investigators conclusions that Mr O only had effective ownership of the 
funds once Standard Life reached its decision about the beneficiary of the policy, that the 
decision itself was completed in a reasonable time, and that the terms and conditions of the 
late Mr Bs policy have been adhered to.
I have gone on to consider the time taken to set up and subsequently re-invest the proceeds 
in Mr Os individual beneficiary pension.
The application form and instruction leaflet were provided on 3 August 2022, the same day 
as the decision itself was communicated with the completed forms being received back on 
9 August 2022. As per the investigators findings I do not believe it is reasonable to hold 
Standard Life accountable for the time between 3 and 9 August 2022.
It took two working days from receipt of the paperwork on 9 August 2022 to open Mr Os 
beneficiary pension on 11 August 2022  I do not consider this to be an unreasonable 
timeframe.
I have noted Mr Os commentary stating that the paperwork was received early on 
9 August 2022 and as such could  in theory - have been processed that same day, 
however I do not think it would be fair to expect Standard Life to have done so. The  
paperwork would have to be directed to the correct business area, checked for accuracy and 
completeness, and then actioned.
Whilst it may be possible for a business to action a specific set of paperwork on the same 
day it has been received, consideration must be given to a businesss work volumes and the 
overall customer service levels that must be provided to that businesss wider customer base.
I have considered Mr Os point that a business must act in the best interests of its customers 
and that he believes Standard Life were trying to protect themselves in the event any 
retained investments fell in value before being passed to the beneficiaries.
I however believe Standard Lifes processes are in keeping with the best interests principle.
Standard Life were not in a position to know whether the investments within Mr Bs pension 
would rise or fall in value. Similarly, when notified of Mr Bs death on 27 July 2022, they were 
not in a position to know for certain who the eventual beneficiaries of the pension would be.
The process followed by Standard Life protects the value of the pension from any potential 
investment loss that may be incurred whilst the decision as to the eventual beneficiary is 
made, with the beneficiary then being able to make subsequent investment decisions as 
they see fit.
It is unfortunate that the chain of events above took place at a time when the underlying 
investments which were held by Mr B performed particularly well, however as above, this 
was not guaranteed, and Standard Life could not have known this at the time.
I have finally gone on to consider Mr Os question regarding what other businesses would 
have done in similar circumstances, especially given other investments held by Mr B 
(taxable investments and ISAs) had remained invested and passed to Mr O once probate 
had been completed.
I have considered the specific circumstances of this case, based on Standard Life products 
and their terms and conditions. Alternative businesses will have their own products and own 
terms and conditions which may have resulted in a different outcome. As such what specific 
other businesses may or may not have done is of limited use to my investigation. What I 
would say here is that I do not consider the chain of events above, and Standard Lifes 
actions throughout, as unusual or unreasonable.
I also cannot say for sure why other investment products held by Mr B remained invested 
until probate was finalised. However, I would note that the types of products mentioned by 
Mr O were not set up under trust (unlike the pension). As such, responsibility for these 
investments would fall to the executor of Mr Bs estate (Mr O) upon Mr Bs death, whereas 
the pension remained the responsibility of the pension trustees (Standard Life).
In summary, whilst I have issued a provisional decision and covered some points not 
previously commented on by our investigator, I have reached the same conclusion. I do not 
believe Standard Life did anything wrong and as such am not proposing to uphold this 
complaint.
In addition, I asked all parties to provide any further commentary or evidence they wanted 
me to consider before 13 September 2023, after which I would issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Standard Life did not provide any further evidence or commentary in response to the 
provisional decision above.Mr O, through his legal representatives, did provide significant additional commentary. In 
order to ensure I have covered all the additional points made, I have covered them section 
by section below.
Section one
In section one of the response Mr O has noted that the investments held within the late 
Mr Bs pension had been made after much thought, research and after taking professional 
investment advice. Standard Life had sold these without taking any advice to ensure the 
suitability of the subsequent cash holding, and against the wishes of Mr O  the beneficiary 
named on the expression of wish form.
It was also noted that cash itself could not be considered suitable given its value would be 
eroded by inflation.
It was additionally questioned whether Standard Life had met its obligations under the FCA 
handbook (covered below in section four) and stated that Standard Lifes one size fits all 
approach had not worked. Mr O stated each case should be considered individually, 
especially when the pension in question is unusually large.
In considering Standard Lifes decision to encash the investments I remain of the opinion 
that this was appropriate. Whilst there is no evidence that specific financial advice was taken 
before the investments were sold, I do not believe it would be reasonable to expect Standard 
Life to do so.
At the time the investments were sold Standard Life did not know who the eventual 
beneficiaries would be. As such, trying to ascertain what investments may be suitable for 
unknown beneficiaries would be an impossible task.
In such circumstances, where there are unknown beneficiaries with unknown circumstances 
and objectives, I consider the process of encashing the investments to protect their value 
entirely reasonable. Whilst the returns on the cash could potentially be eroded by inflation 
over time, cash is widely considered appropriate for short term savings. In this case, the 
pension was held in cash for less that one month, limiting the impact of inflation on its value. 
I do not believe Standard Lifes actions could be seen to suggest that holding monies in cash 
is a better investment option than its investment funds, rather it is more suitable for a very 
short period of time, until decisions around the eventual beneficiaries can be made.
I appreciate that in this instance, leaving the funds invested would have resulted in a 
financial gain for Mr O. However, as above, Standard Life were not in a position to know this 
at the time the investments were sold. As such expecting Standard Life, or any business to 
provide best outcomes is not a standard I can reasonably hold them to  as this is only 
available with the benefit of hindsight. Whilst Mr O has challenged a one size fits all 
approach I consider it appropriate for a business to have a standard process for 
circumstances such as this. A standard process can be assessed to ensure its fairness and 
be communicated to policyholders, so they know what to expect in future, this also allows all 
consumers, wherever possible, to be treated equally.
Mr O has commented that Standard Life should have acted differently or taken extra 
special care given the £5.5m value of the pension in this case, I however disagree. The 
pension in question was a generic pension with there being no bespoke or individual 
services being offered or paid for. Whilst the pension had a value far more than the average, 
I consider it entirely reasonable for Standard Life to treat this pension the same as they 
would any other in the same circumstances.Section two
In this section the decision to encash the investments was again questioned by Mr O.
Here again the decision to encash without financial advice being sought by Standard Life 
was questioned, both in terms of the suitability of holding the funds in cash for the eventual 
beneficiaries, and in trying to better time the sale of the underlying investments based on 
expectations of their future performance.
As above I do not consider Standard Life not taking financial advice before encashing the 
investments to be an issue. At that time the eventual beneficiaries and their objectives were 
unknown and as such any advice would have been of limited value.
Similarly, financial advice would not have been able to better inform the timing of the 
investment sale. How investments are going to perform in future is not information a financial 
adviser would have been able to provide.
I appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight it can now be confirmed that had Standard Life 
held the existing investments for longer the pension would have increased in value, however 
that is not something Standard Life were in a position to know at that time, with or without 
financial advice.
Section three
Here 13.1 of the terms and conditions of the policy have been questioned, specifically the 
interpretation of the term normally.
Mr O has stated that Standard Life have an obligation to provide information that is clear, fair 
and not misleading, that the normally exemption is intended to cover a number of scenarios 
and not just where there are illiquid investments, that the trustees (Standard Life) have a 
duty to act in the beneficiaries best interests, that a more appropriate interpretation of the 
word normally would be to interpret normally as being subject to it being in the 
beneficiaries best financial interests, and that in exercising their duties a prudent pension 
trustee would take advice on the most appropriate time to sell the existing investments and 
advice on any new investments.
Taking these points in term, I remain of the opinion that Standard Life met their requirement 
to communicate in a clear, fair, and not misleading way. The policy terms and conditions 
confirm that the underlying investments within a pension will normally be sold in the event 
of a policyholders death. Whilst a complete list of what would clarify as an exemption to 
normally was not included, I consider it clear that the investments will usually be sold.
Whilst I gave the example of illiquid investments as being one of the possible exemptions to 
the usual process, I appreciate that there may be a number of other circumstances that 
may require the normal process to be changed.
In interpreting normally I do not agree that this should be based on it being subject to it 
being in the beneficiaries best financial interests. As above, at the time the investments 
were sold, Standard Life had not made their decision as to who the beneficiaries would be, 
additionally, as already explained what would be in a beneficiaries best financial interests is 
impossible to know without the benefit of hindsight.
In further consideration of the term normally I would note that there are no exceptional 
circumstances within this case that would require Standard Life to move away from their 
normal process. The pension was a generic SIPP, the underlying investments were standard investment funds and there were no other complicating factors regarding the SIPP. I accept 
that the pension value itself was significantly larger than average I do not consider this is 
isolation enough to require Standard Life to move away from their normal process.
Section 4
Within this section Mr O questioned Standard Lifes actions and failure to:
Take appropriate investment advice.
Consider diversification of assets.
Consider the best asset allocation for the beneficiary in these specific circumstances.
Consider the best timing of the investment switch to minimise out of market risk.
I consider these points to be materially similar to those covered in the sections above and as 
such have not commented on these in detail again. However, as above, I consider Standard 
Lifes approach in selling the investments and protecting their value as soon as being 
informed of Mr Bs death as reasonable given the beneficiaries were unknown at the time of 
the sale. 
Mr O additionally questioned whether Standard Lifes actions were in keeping with the 
principles for business contained within the FCA handbook.
The four principles below were noted as being contrary to Standard Lifes actions in not 
taking financial advice before the pension investments were sold.
Prin 2.1.1 (1) - A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Prin 2.1.1 (6) - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
Prin 2.1.1 (9) - A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
Prin 2.1.1 (12) - A firm must act to deliver good outcomes for retail customers.
In consideration of the principles detailed above I would repeat here that I do not consider 
Standard Lifes actions to be unsuitable or unreasonable. I do not consider the lack of 
financial advice to be a concern. Whilst I note that a different course of action would have 
resulted in investment gains being made, this does not make Standard Lifes actions 
unsuitable. Better (or best) outcomes can only be established with the benefit of hindsight 
with what Standard Life did protecting the value of the pension for beneficiaries benefit. The 
decision as to the beneficiary of the pension was made quickly, with the pension proceeds 
transferred and re-invested in a timely manner. I consider this to be in keeping with the 
principles above.
Prin 2.1.1 (7) - A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading  was also 
noted in relation to the terms and conditions of the policy, specifically in relation to the word 
normally.
I have not repeated my arguments included in section three above here and would simply 
note that I remain of the opinion that Standard Life met their requirement to communicate in a clear and fair way.
Overall, in line with the provisional decision issued, and the additional rationale above I have 
concluded Standard Life did not action unfairly and am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
As per the rationale above I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman