DRN-2227334
The complaint
Mr C and Ms G complain about how they were dealt with by Barclays Bank UK PLC when 
they applied for a new mortgage product. They would like Barclays to compensate them for 
the being treated unfairly and the adverse effect its had on their mental health.
What happened
Mr C and Ms G have a mortgage with Barclays. In early 2020, they applied for a further 
discounted mortgage product of 1.21% based on a 60% loan to value. Mr C and Ms G had 
managed to get into this bracket by making overpayments on their mortgage. On 20 
February Barclays quoted them contractual monthly payments (CMP) of £1,364.27. But 
then, having accepted this, at the beginning of March 2020 they got a quote of £1,461.47 for 
the month of April and a CMP of £1,459.93 subsequently until the end of the period of this 
mortgage product which was April 2022. Mr C spoke to Barclays who explained that the 
higher payments would mean that the mortgage term would end earlier and that they would 
get a letter from Barclays asking them whether they wanted the higher payments and the 
shorter term or lower payments and a longer term. But this letter never arrived.
When Mr C and Ms G checked the account online in May 2020. they noted that despite 
making the higher payments that the mortgage term remained the same. Mr C and Ms G 
made a complaint and Barclays by way of apology offered them compensation of £100. It 
also reduced the CMPs to £1,434.85 from June. Mr C and Ms G asked Barclays to look at it 
again and recalculate the payments which it did at £1,363.54 from July 2020.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld, and that Barclays 
should increase the level of compensation to £150. Mr C and Ms G believe that the 
compensation award should be higher to reflect the mental agony they endured over a 4-
month period and the time wasted to get this corrected by Barclays and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Ms G were given two different CMPs quotes on the 20 February and 2 March 
2020. As I understand it the difference was because the first quote didnt include the product 
fee and was based on the outstanding balance less the overpayments of about £15,000. The 
second quote included the product fee but based on the outstanding balance without 
discounting the overpayments giving a higher overall balance. The purpose of the higher 
quote is that it allowed Mr C and Ms G to get advantage of the interest rate without reducing 
the monthly payments to allow them to pay off the mortgage earlier. Barclays says that as 
many people make overpayments in order to shorten the mortgage term that its purpose was 
to assist them to do that Although the mortgage term will remain the same - as set out in the 
original mortgage agreement - in reality the mortgage balance will be paid off earlier by a 
combination of the higher monthly payments and the overpayments. 
So, Mr C and Ms G got two quotes. In the revised payment notice of 2 Match 2020 it said 
that the reason the figures were different was because of the product fee and the 
overpayments. I see in that letter there is a reference to a relevant website which I visited, 
and, on that site, there is a FAQ section. One of those FAQs is Revised monthly payment 
higher than expected? which appears to be relevant here. It then says When we work out 
your new monthly payment amount following a change to interest rates, the amount stored in 
your overpayment balance isnt taken into account  so your monthly payment may be 
higher than expected . That appears to have happened here in the second quote. That 
section then invites a discussion with Barclays and the indications are that that the 
overpayments could be used to reduce the monthly payments which Mr C and Ms G wanted.
Mr C and Mr G then spoke to a Barclays adviser and waited to get a letter setting out the 
options which they expected before the payments changed in May. That letter didnt arrive, 
and Mr C eventually spoke to a Barclays adviser who accepted that there had been poor 
service from the lender as it hadnt provided them with sufficient information in the phone 
calls. Barclays then adjusted the monthly payments, but Mr C and Ms G had to go back 
again to ask them to recalculate their monthly payments on the outstanding loan for the 
remaining period which Barclays corrected in July. Mr C and Ms G feel that Barclays 
wouldnt have done this if they hadnt threatened bringing the matter to this service.
Ive given this careful consideration. Barclays appears to have proceeded on the assumption 
that having made the overpayments that Mr C and Ms G wanted to take advantage of that by 
maintaining the higher payments to achieve earlier payment of the mortgage. Although 
Barclays Revised Payment Notice to Mr C and Ms G contained relevant information, the 
effect of overpayments on CMPs and mortgage terms is quite complex, and I believe that 
Barclays should have taken the opportunity that it promised Mr C and Ms G in March to set 
out the options before the rate changed in April. The matter seems to have been sorted at 
the end of June for the July payment but required further intervention by Mr C and Ms G.
So, theres clearly been poor service by Barclays and Mr C and Ms G suffered a degree of 
trouble and upset that they should be compensated for. I know how strongly Mr C and Ms G 
feel about how they have been treated. Mr C and Ms G have referred to this affecting their 
mental health, but they dont refer to seeking medical assistance because of that and havent 
provided me with any supporting medical evidence.  
Mr C and Ms G have referred me to a newspaper article which reports that Barclays were 
fined by the FCA for mistreating customers in financial difficulties. Clearly, as Mr C and Ms G 
were making overpayments, there is no evidence that they had financial difficulties. In any 
case our role is not to fine a financial business but to decide on a reasonable compensation 
for the poor service that Mr C and Ms G suffered. I can see that they had a degree of trouble 
understanding what was going on and some delay in getting the matter sorted out 
satisfactorily and I believe that Barclays could have assisted them faster on both counts. Mr 
C and Ms G also had ongoing contact with Barclays over a longer period than they wished 
for. But the matter did get sorted within a reasonable period and I believe that the amount 
suggested by our investigator of £150 is reasonable compensation for their trouble and 
upset in the circumstances.  
  
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr C and Ms G £150.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman