DRN-3573745
The complaint
Mr R complains that he couldnt withdraw funds from his Premium Savings Bonds with 
National Savings and Investments (NSI).
What happened
Mr R had money in Premium Savings Bonds (PSBs) with NSI. He wanted to complete for a 
property purchase by 30 September 2021 to take advantage of the reduced rates of stamp 
duty  which ended then. On 27 September 2021, at just after 5pm, he tried to log onto his 
account to make a withdrawal of £50,000  to be used towards the purchase price. He failed 
the security questions. 
He called NSI later, just before 8pm to see if he could resolve matters and get the funds paid 
to him. NSI told him he could complete an online form to request the payment of the money. 
This he did  at 7.51pm. NSI closed at 8pm and the form was processed on 28 September 
2021. Due to a clerical error, the payment request was then cancelled and a letter and form 
sent in the post for Mr R to complete. On 29 September 2021, Mr R called NSI and after 
discussion, cancelled the payment request, as by then he decided it wasnt going to be done 
in time.
Mr R complained. He said that NSIs processes had failed him  as he shouldve been able 
to make the withdrawal in time. And he said that NSIs systems werent fit for purpose  he 
said that in todays world, it should be possible to re-set security more quickly. 
NSI said their security processes are important to keep customers money safe. After Mr R 
failed the online security questions on 27 September 2021, he completed an online 
withdrawal form. This was processed the next day  on 28 September 2021. But due to an 
error, the payment request was then cancelled. For the poor service Mr R received on the 
phone at the time, NSI paid compensation of £50, and asked Mr R for evidence of his 
losses. Mr R showed that he had paid additional stamp duty of £1,400 because of what 
happened. 
NSI considered Mr Rs complaint further  and then said that even if the error in cancelling 
the payment hadnt happened, he wouldnt have received the funds in time for the 
completion of the property purchase. NSI said that after Mr R submitted the online 
withdrawal request, it could take up to eight working days to authorise and process. On 27 
September 2021, the call handler didnt commit to a time of three working days. And 
because the withdrawal was a high value one, they needed to make additional security 
checks  these took two days. So  NSI said the earliest that Mr R couldve received the 
funds was 1 October 2021; and the latest was 6 October 2021. NSI apologised for the delay 
in issuing their final response (in May 2022) and paid further compensation of £200.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said NSI acted reasonably. He said that 
when Mr R completed the online withdrawal form, there was a message saying that 
withdrawals may take eight working days. There were additional security checks that needed 
to be done, and these were reasonable. He said that on the call on 27 September 2021, the 
call handler didnt set Mr Rs expectations correctly as he said the money would be available 
in time. He agreed that poor service was given on the phone and agreed with the 
compensation paid of £250. He didnt think that NSI needed to do anymore.
Mr R asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset that this service resolves individual disputes between customers 
and financial businesses. We arent the regulator of NSI thats the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). So  we dont tell businesses to change their policies or practices. So  
here, its for NSI to make its own commercial decisions as to how it runs its online banking. 
But we do say if a customer has, or hasnt, been dealt with fairly and reasonably  based on 
the individual circumstances of their complaint.
Mr R has made several comments about how NSI runs its online process; and as Ive said, 
Im not going to comment on those  nor can we ask NSI to change them, as its not our role.
The crux of Mr Rs complaint is  should NSI have transferred the withdrawal of £50,000 to 
his bank account in time for the property completion on 30 September 2021. If they had 
done so, he wouldve paid £1,400 less in stamp duty. 
We asked Mr R for evidence of the stamp duty he paid and this confirmed hed paid a further 
£1,400 when he completed later for the purchase. He also told us that he needed the 
withdrawal of £50,000 as while he had other monies, these were invested in a bond which 
didnt mature until after 30 September 2021.
Mr R failed security questions when trying to make the online withdrawal on 27 September 
2021. If he hadnt done so, the funds wouldve been paid into his account within two working 
days  the PSB terms and conditions say that. But unfortunately, Mr R got the answers 
wrong  this isnt in dispute. And so, he could not make the withdrawal online as he wished. 
He called NSI just before 8pm on 27 September 2021. NSI closed at 8pm. I listened to the 
call. 
NSIs call handler suggested to Mr R that he complete an online withdrawal form  so the 
withdrawal could be requested without having to log on. But that had to be authorised. He 
took Mr R through its completion. Mr R was anxious to understand the timescales for getting 
the money transferred and he accepted that this is close to the wire. The call handler 
wasnt very clear about timescales. On one hand he said the transfer would be made by the 
end of the week (the end of the week was 1 October 2021); at another point on the call he 
said it could be (within three working days). And he also said that its not guaranteed. 
It was a poor call in terms of service  I consider Mr R was left not knowing where he was. 
But   importantly - the call handler didnt give a clear commitment to  two, or three-day 
timescale. Mr R then went ahead with the withdrawal request using the online form.
Mr R called again on 29 September 2021 and on that call, he was advised it could take up to 
eight working days  although of course that was after the event. But on the call, Mr R 
acknowledged that when completing the online form, it said withdrawals could take eight 
working days  so at the outset, on 27 September 2021, Mr R was made aware of that.
On 28 September 2021, NSI cancelled the payment request due to an error  and sent out a letter and paper form for Mr R to complete. So, because of that , the withdrawal was never 
going to be made in time.
So, what I must decide is  if that hadnt happened  was there a reasonable certainty that 
the withdrawal and transfer couldve been made by 30 September 2021. And on balance, I 
dont think there was. NSI explained that the online withdrawal form was received at 7.51 pm 
on 27 September 2021. They closed at 8pm, and so it was reviewed the following day. NSI 
told us they needed to complete further security checks  because of the high value of the 
payment. This took two days. We asked to see NSIs process here and this confirmed the 
two-day process was built into their systems. So  the very earliest that the payment 
couldve been made was 30 September 2021. Whether this wouldve enabled Mr R to 
receive the money into his bank account and then pay it to his solicitors the same day is not 
certain. 
But the two-day timeline here is very optimistic. NSIs normal process for such a withdrawal 
was eight working days  as the online form said. And so its much more likely that it 
wouldve taken more than the minimum scenario of two days. And that wouldve been too 
late for Mr Rs property completion. So  there was a very high probability that the transfer 
would not have been made in time.
It was unfortunate that Mr R left it so late to try to make the online withdrawal  particularly 
when he was to complete for a property purchase. And when it didnt go ahead due to him 
failing security, it seems to me that there was always going to be a strong chance that the 
withdrawal couldnt be made in time. And thats ultimately what happened. Its unfortunate 
that Mr R had to pay more stamp duty as a result  but in all fairness, I cant hold NSI 
responsible for that.
NSI have paid compensation of £250  which was a reasonable way to deal with Mr Rs 
complaint. And I wont be asking then to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman