DRN-1657060
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Zurich Assurance Limited declined a claim made on an income 
protection insurance policy she had the benefit of.
What happened
Mrs B became absent from work in early 2019 as she needed an operation on her foot. She 
had the benefit of an income protection policy (the policy) through her employer, which can 
pay out a portion of her income after shed been off work for 26 weeks (the deferred 
period). 
A claim was made on the policy which was turned down by Zurich at the end of August 
2019. It said that Mrs B didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity. Mrs B didnt think that 
was fair, so she appealed the decision. Her appeal was unsuccessful, and she complained 
to our Service.
Mrs B began a phased return to work in early January 2020, after taking accrued annual 
leave from the end of November 2019.
 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Bs complaint. In light of all the medical evidence, he didnt think 
Zurich had fairly declined the claim. He recommended that the claim be paid from the end of 
the deferred period to the date Mrs B returned back to work on a phased return together with 
simple interest. He also recommended that Zurich consider whether Mrs B qualifies for an 
additional payment under the section in the policy relating to returning to work on a phased 
basis.
Mrs B accepted our investigator s recommendations. Zurich disagreed so Mrs Bs complaint 
has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurich has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt turn down a 
claim unreasonably. When making a claim, its for Mrs B to demonstrate that she meets the 
definition of incapacity.
Under the policy incapacity (for suited occupation) is defined as: 
The Member cannot perform the Material and Substantial Duties of their current 
employment, or any other occupation they could do because of their transferable skills at 
that time. Any other occupation should provide a reasonable, though not necessarily 
comparable, salary and status to the current occupation.
Material and Substantial Duties are defined as:
the duties that are the essential activities for which a Member is employed that take up a
significant proportion of their time.
They are also activities that you or the Member cannot reasonably change or stop.
The material and substantial duties of a Suited or Benchmark occupation:
 are those performed in that occupation generally
 do not relate to a particular place of work
 include business travel, where its a common feature of that role.
Mrs Bs role has been described as sedentary role, working mainly from a computer and 
using the telephone.
Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on the evidence available to me when considering 
whether Zurichs decision to decline the claim on the basis that Mrs B didnt meet the 
definition of incapacity was fair and reasonable. Having done so, I dont think it was. Ill 
explain why.
At the end of April 2019, Mrs B spoke to a rehabilitation consultant. Mrs B said that she was 
mainly lying down as sitting exacerbates the pain in her heel. Its reported that Mrs B can sit 
for approximately two hours but needs to elevate her leg due to a back condition. Although 
its reflected that Mrs B was hoping to return to work on 13 May 2019 its also reflected that 
Mrs B was now considering that this might be too soon.
However, the occupation healths physicians report from the end of June 2019 - so shortly 
before the end of the deferred period - says Mrs B wasnt fit to return to work either in the 
office or working from home. The report concludes that she certainly isnt going to be able 
to return to work within the next three months  maybe longer, depending on the outcome of 
an MRI scan she was due to have and whether chronic regional pain syndrome is 
diagnosed. 
Zurich says the occupational health consultant didnt explain why or substantiate
the comments made. However, Im satisfied that he did meet with Mrs B. And from the 
referral letter I can see that he was provided with relevant details about her medical 
conditions and was asked to focus on particular questions  including whether she was fit to 
work. So, Im satisfied that this is persuasive evidence that Mrs B was incapacitated.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that Zurich says Mrs Bs symptoms are 
largely self-reported, without objective evidence to substantiate the degree of pain she was 
in. And that typically the recovery time for the type of surgery she underwent at the start of 
the deferred period is six weeks. 
Further, Zurich says her own surgeon was unable to explain the ongoing pain she was 
reporting. I can see in May 2019 Mrs Bs surgeon says that it sounds as though it is taking 
longer than usual to settle down But a second Consultant Orthopaedic Foot & Ankle 
Surgeon (the second surgeon) reported shortly after the end of the deferred period, in early 
September 2019, that the ongoing problem is nerve-related with either damage from scarring 
from the surgical approach or stretching or division at the time of surgery. And that this is: 
 causing difficulties in getting to work and be able to manage to sit comfortably for any 
period of time at her desk at work and effectively she has still not been able to return to work 
which seems reasonable in view of the relationship of all of the factors affecting her. So, it 
looks like, due to a number of potential factors that werent clear at the time, her recovery 
was genuinely taking longer than expected. I dont agree that her symptoms  and the pain she experienced - are largely self-reported 
as Zurich says.  
For example, the physiotherapist report from August 2019 reflects that her pain levels have 
been too high, and she has been unable to progress through the rehabilitation programme. It 
goes on to say that Mrs B:
attended the clinic for 12 treatment sessions over the last few months with little to no 
difference. We carried out Ultrasound, joint mobilisations. Acupuncture, deep tissue 
massage, home exercises and advice which has had limited effectShe is now 6 months 
down the line and is unable to mobilise pain free with or without elbow crutches She is 
unable to single leg heel raise on her L side due to pain. She remains in pain on palpation to 
her scar and plantar fascia. Basic movements like ankle plantar-flexion cause her pain. 6 
months post-op this should not be the case.
I also think that Mrs Bs medical records and Mrs Bs own account are consistent in terms of 
how she was feeling and how the pain in her foot affected her. 
Zurich also says that the occupational health physicians comments were at odds with 
Mrs Bs Rheumatologist consultants report dated August 2019. Hed reported that, in his 
view, there were no barriers for her to return to work. But I dont think its fair to view that 
comment in isolation as the report says Mrs B wouldnt be prevented from returning to work 
as a result of the joint pains, hed consulted her about. He reports that particular pain had 
settled. However, the consultant rheumatologist wasnt treating Mrs B for her foot pain, or 
the subsequent pain that had developed in the same foot as a result of the surgery. And 
theres nothing in this report which seeks to give an opinion on whether the ongoing 
problems with her foot and ankle were preventing her from returning to work. So, Ive placed 
less weight on the contents of this report.
I accept that in early July 2019, Mrs Bs GP said in a letter (the GP letter) that provided it is 
agreed by Mrs B and that her return to work is overseen by a medical professional, I would 
not consider any barrier to her returning to work. But Ive placed less weight on that 
statement because theyve also said in the GP letter, she had on-going pain and Mrs B was 
awaiting more tests and consultant appointments. Further, Mrs Bs sickness certificate had 
last been issued on 10 June 2019 signing her off work for several weeks. Although, being 
signed off work by a GP doesnt mean Mrs B was incapacitated as per the terms of the 
policy, being signed off sick work isnt consistent with there being no medical barriers in the 
way of her returning to work as set out in the GP letter. Mrs Bs GP also declared her as not 
being fit to return to work for a further four weeks from 22 July 2019  and for several 
months thereafter. 
Further:
- between the GP renewing her sickness certificate in June 2019, and the GP letter, 
Mrs B had met with the occupational health physician whod advised that she wasnt 
fit to return to work for at least three more months; and
- in September 2019  two months after answering Zurichs questions - her GP 
reported that Mrs B continued to have significant neuropathic pain following her 
surgery and continues to use crutchesis unable to walk more than a few hundred 
yards with her crutches finds sitting for any length of time causes pain in her lower 
back due to a bulging disc and she suffers from sharp pains in her legs. At the 
present time I feel that she is unable to return to work.Zurich has also said its considered the effect of Mrs Bs foot pain on her ability to work as 
there is insufficient evidence that her other medical complaints prevented her from working. 
And that her back condition was pre-existing. It says she was able to continue working 
despite her back pain before she was off work in January 2019 (due to her foot condition). 
Although her GP certificates reflect, she was unable to work due to her foot condition and 
later, also the nerve pain, in this particular complaint, I dont think its fair for Zurich to look at 
her foot condition in isolation. Thats because Im persuaded that the medical evidence 
supports that the pain in her foot was exacerbating other medical conditions she had. 
For example, a consultant in anaesthetics and pain medicine reported in September 2019 
that Mrs B finds difficulty in weight bearing on that side (of her foot) and in consequence has 
experienced some hip and lower back pain, likely as a result of change of mechanical 
loading. Further, the surgeon also said in September 2019 that Mrs B was still reliant on 
crutches some six months after her surgery and was only able to weight-bear down the 
lateral border of her foot. And being on crutches had exacerbated other rheumatologically 
affected joints including her hips and her lower back. Essentially, she couldnt mobilise 
without her crutches - and can only walk short distances. 
I can see that Zurich did ask further questions of the surgeon including:
Do you feel Ms Bs foot pain would prevent her from working in her role? Our own chief 
Medical Officer feels that her injury is not incompatible with her sedentary role and that work 
would play an important part in her ongoing recovery. Do you agree with this point? Please 
note that Ms Bs employers would be able to accommodate reasonable adjustments, 
including home working.
The surgeon replied:
I believe her neuropathic pain secondary to nerve damage is preventing her from being 
able to mobilise without crutches, her requirement for crutches is causing an exacerbation in 
her lower back. These factors combined will make it difficult to travel to the office but a 
phased return to working practice from home initially with plenty of time allocated to get up 
and move around every 30 minutes to relieve her back pain. Once she has been reviewed 
by a nerve pain specialist and specific treatment for this nerve pain as opposed to her 
plantar fascia has been started, she should be able to work in the office, but this will depend 
on the efficacy of this treatment.
Ive seen correspondence between Mrs B and the surgeon thereafter where Mrs B says they 
didnt discuss in any detail the issues she was having with her back, how these affected her, 
her medical history, the issues she was having with her back or any difficulties she would 
have working from home. And that her appointment was 10-15 minutes long.  The surgeon 
doesnt disagree with what Mrs B says. He simply replies that he was asked to respond to 
the questions posed by Zurich about the effects of Mrs Bs foot injury. And that the chief 
medical officer should take this in context of the rest of your medical history and the outcome 
of treatment by a pain specialist whom they can seek clarification regarding the nerve injury. 
So, Ive placed less weight on the consultants opinion on whether Mrs B was fit to return to 
work from home particularly as the appointment they attended with Mrs B in September 
2019 come about as a result of a referral from Mrs Bs consultant rheumatologist. The 
purpose of the meeting wasnt to discuss Mrs Bs fitness to work from home, or otherwise  
and from the correspondence Ive seen between Mrs B and the surgeon, they didnt know 
much about her job role. Ive also taken into account that Zurich says in the course of assessing Mrs Bs claim that 
shed told it she was still driving her automatic car, going for walks, swimming, attending tai 
chi classes and taking her children to school. And that the main issue why she was unable to 
work was her commute to work as opposed to undertaking her job role. 
I accept that there is reference to Mrs B being able to drive in the rehabilitation consultants 
note in April 2019 and to her recently being able to carry out self-care activities, help get her 
youngest child dressed in the morning, prepare simple meals and walk her children to the 
library. But that note also says that although Mrs B used to swim, shes not able to do so 
since the surgery. Its also reflected that her sister was taking her children to school and that 
Mrs B was mainly laying down as sitting exacerbated the pain in her heel.
Although she might have been able to do some tasks, I dont think thats inconsistent with 
her being incapacitated or unable to return to work given that her role was sedentary in 
nature. And given the medical evidence, it looks like her ability to walk unaided further 
deteriorated after April 2019, to the extent that its reflected in some of the correspondence 
Ive seen from Mrs B in August 2019 that she was using a mobility scooter when out. 
And whilst Mrs B may have seen her commute to work as being a barrier to her being able to 
return to work, its also reflected in the documents Ive seen that she was also concerned 
about her sitting tolerance given the pain she was living with at the time. 
Looking at the totality of the medical evidence available to me, as summarised above, Im 
satisfied that Zurich has unreasonably concluded that Mrs B wasnt incapacitated as defined 
by the policy.  
Putting things right
Im satisfied Zurich should reconsider the claim in light of the remaining policy terms.
And if the claim should be paid, Zurich should now:
pay the backdated monthly benefits to the policyholder (in this case Mrs Bs 
employer) from the date on which the deferred period ended to the date on which 
Mrs B returned to work (less any pay she received directly from the policyholder 
whilst on annual leave for several weeks at the end of 2019). 
pay simple interest on the backdated monthly payments directly to Mrs B at a rate 
8% per year* from the date on which each benefit payment was due to be made to 
the date on which its paid. 
As Mrs B begun a phased return to work, Zurich should also consider whether
Mrs B is eligible for a proportionate benefit payment to top-up her salary as per the
policy terms.
*If Zurich considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one. That way Mrs B can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I direct Zurich Assurance Limited to put things right by doing 
what Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman