DRN-3766438
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC treated him unfairly during a period of financial 
difficulties in relation to his mortgage account, and would like compensation.
What happened
From May to October 2020 inclusive, Mr C was given a six month payment holiday on 
his mortgage account as a result of financial difficulties caused by the Covid-19 
pandemic. As those difficulties hadnt resolved, in November 2020 Lloyds agreed to Mr 
C paying half of his contractual monthly payment (CMP) on his mortgage as a short term 
measure. The arrangement was extended in December 2020 and March 2021, and in 
June 2021 there were multiple calls between Lloyds and Mr Cs wife to work out next 
steps. Lloyds carried out an income and expenditure (I&E) assessment and initially said 
that the reduced CMP arrangement could no longer continue as it seemed Mr C could 
not afford it.
In a subsequent conversation Lloyds then agreed a continuation of this payment plan, 
confirmed in writing on 25 June 2021. But following an internal review, on 26 June 2021 
it wrote again to Mr C saying that the payment plan should not have been agreed, due to 
the amount of arrears on the mortgage account, and that it had therefore been 
cancelled. Lloyds explained that in fact the mortgage needed to have a legal review, 
and that repossession of the property might be an option due to the arrears that had built 
up.
Understandably concerned by this letter, Mr C spoke again to Lloyds, and on 2 July 2021 
he cleared the arrears and has since maintained the full CMP on the mortgage account.
Mr C complained to Lloyds about how it had handled the situation, including that it hadnt 
explained the potential repercussions of the reduced CMP arrangement. He had 
assumed that the arrears would have been capitalised  that is, effectively added to the 
balance of the mortgage  rather than showing as active arrears on the account, leading 
to the ultimate possibility of repossession.
Lloyds accepted that it hadnt got things right at the end of June 2021 when one of its 
advisors had incorrectly agreed to the reduced CMP arrangement continuing. So it paid Mr 
C £100 in compensation. However, it didnt accept that it had done anything else wrong, 
and Mr C came to this service.
Having considered all the evidence, the investigator thought that whilst Lloyds could have 
made the potential repercussions of the reduced CMP arrangement clearer in its 
conversations with Mr C, ultimately Mr C had no other option. It was clear from the many 
telephone calls that Mr C and his wife had with Lloyds that their financial situation was 
extremely difficult during those months when the reduced CMP arrangement was in place. 
So even if Lloyds had explained things in greater depth, Mr C would have had to continue 
with the reduced CMP arrangement in any event. So he didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C disagrees and asked an ombudsman to look at his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it, and Ill explain why.
Mr C clearly feels extremely strongly about this complaint and will be very disappointed by 
my decision. He wants Lloyds to be punished for what he considers its failures. Prior to 
issuing this decision, I explained to him that isnt my role, and let him know that I only have 
powers to put individual customers back into the position in which they would have been had 
a business not made a mistake.
I acknowledge that Mr C is not complaining about the six month payment holiday on the 
mortgage that was given by Lloyds between May and October 2020. But I think it lends 
context to Mr Cs concerns. Mortgage lenders took such actions in 2020 following guidance 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and 
the extraordinary challenges that presented. Essentially this support enabled borrowers to 
defer their mortgage repayments and avoided any arrears being logged on the account. But 
the FCA made it clear that such measures could only be short term, and should not last 
longer than six months. Following that time, if borrowers were still experiencing ongoing 
financial difficulties, lenders were required to offer tailored ongoing support to customers, 
with normal credit reporting resuming.
Im satified Lloyds provided the right level of support in line with the FCAs guidance. 
Following the six months payment holiday, in response to Mr Cs circumstances, it agreed a 
reduced payment arrangement as ongoing support. 
Mr C is unhappy that Lloyds didnt continue the reduced CMP arrangement in June 2021. 
Lloyds said that such arrangements are designed by the regulator to be only short term. That 
is because such arrangements inevitably lead to arrears building up on mortgage accounts 
which can then be very problematic to clear, effectively leading the customer to be in an 
even worse financial position. Lloyds met its obligations in keeping the account under 
review, and in checking the affordability of any repayment arrangement for Mr C. At that 
point it wasnt clear when Mr Cs financial situation would improve, bearing in mind that hes 
been experience difficulties making his CMP for over 12 months and the Covid-19 pandemic 
(and its impact on Mr Cs particular line of work) was continuing in the summer of 2021. So I 
dont think it was wrong in instituting a full review to consider all options.
Lloyds has accepted that when one of its agents agreed to continue the reduced CMP 
arrangement at the end of June 2021 that was wrong, and essentially gave Mr C false 
reassurance that no other action would be taken. It then informed him that repossession of 
his property was a possibility, which would undoubtedly have been very stressful. As an 
aside, it is a regulatory requirement for mortgage lenders to inform customers of the position 
of their account and where relevant, that repossession is a potential outcome of CMPs not 
being maintained. And as I understand it, the letter Lloyds sent didnt say that repossession 
proceedings were underway, or imminent. Rather that the account would need to be 
reviewed and that repossession was a potential ultimate outcome. In any event, I consider 
the £100 it has already paid in respect of that mistake to be enough. I say that because the 
situation was resolved within just a few days of this happening. So there was no prolonged 
distress or inconvenience caused to Mr C by Lloyds mistake.
The issue of whether Lloyds gave Mr C clear information about the potential impact of the 
reduced CMP arrangement is a separate one. There are many call recordings of the conversations, usually had by Mr Cs wife, with Lloyds over the relevant months. Whilst I 
accept that I havent heard a Lloyds advisor say explicitly that arrears on the account could 
ultimately lead to repossession of the mortgaged property, I do think it made it clear that the 
account was, frankly, of concern.
For example, in one call from December 2020, the Lloyds representative talks about the 
mortgage account ...falling into arrears... and having ...gone into collections... in the 
previous month. When confirming the continuation of the reduced CMP arrangement for a 
further three months, the advisor sets out clearly that Mr C will probably get arrears 
statements during that time; that fees and charges will accrue; and the arrears will be 
recorded on his credit file.
As, happily, the account is now back in order, and there is no threat of repossession, the 
only impact of the reduced CMP arrangement for Mr C is the fees and charges, and negative 
entries on his credit file. Those impacts were made entirely clear by Lloyds when the 
arrangement was put in place in December 2020. So it would be neither fair nor reasonable 
of me to direct Lloyds to take any action in respect of those impacts.
Additionally, the evidence doesnt suggest that Mr C would necessarily have been in a 
position to clear the arrears and return to making the full CMP any earlier than he did. I 
understand that he borrowed money from a family member to do so in July 2021. But he 
says that doing so has ...put a strain on the relationship... and so it clearly hasnt been an 
easy step to take. Given the root cause of Mr Cs financial difficulties, I also think the 
likelihood is that he would have had to borrow even more from this family member. Thats 
because his circumstances, and therefore monthly income, wouldnt have improved any 
earlier.
Mr C is also unhappy that Lloyds wrote to him to explain that his account would be subject to 
legal review and therefore that action towards repossession could not be ruled out. However, 
given the situation with the account and the arrears that had built up, again, I dont think 
Lloyds did anything wrong in informing him of that. Although repossession is a last resort, as 
explained Ive not seen anything to suggest Lloyds was taking that action at the time it wrote 
to Mr C.
As I have not found any significant mistakes by Lloyds, beyond what it has already identified 
and paid compensation for, it therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman