DRN-3031739
The complaint
Mr G complained that Fairstone Financial Management Limited (FFM) advised him to 
transfer out of an occupational pension scheme he held with his employer, to a type of 
personal pension called a flexible retirement plan. 
The pension Mr G was transferred out of comprised of two elements: a defined benefit (DB) 
scheme, which formed the majority of his pension savings; and a smaller, defined 
contribution (DC) scheme. 
Mr Gs complaint is that he is worse off as a result of being advised to transfer out of these 
schemes. 
What happened
Mr G met with a representative of FFM, initially in May 2016, to discuss his retirement needs. 
He was in the process of being made redundant after working for his company since the late 
1970s and his main intention at that point was to retire more or less immediately (with a 
possibility of taking on some part-time work to stay active and earn a little). 
The FFM adviser noted Mr G wanted to review the financial options available to him for his 
pension savings in the light of his redundancy and retirement. As a result of the discussions, 
the adviser recommended Mr G transfer out of both the DB and DC elements of his 
workplace pension as of September 2016. He was recommended to invest the money with a 
well-known fund provider and to then set up a drawdown facility. The intention at that point 
was to leave the transferred pension funds invested in a with profits fund for around a year, 
in line with his attitude to risk (ATR), which FFM had assessed as low medium. The plan 
was to then access a drawdown facility later and begin taking cash and income. The FFM 
adviser said this would help Mr G achieve his overall objective of income flexibility and 
access to ad-hoc lump sums. 
In late 2017 Mr G was advised again by FFM. He did indeed go on to access a drawdown 
option and re-invest the rest of his money in other funds, again in accordance with his ATR 
profile.
One of our investigators comprehensively looked into the complaint and said that the DB 
element of Mr Gs pension should not have been recommended for transfer to a personal 
pension. The investigator said the investments he had been advised to transfer into would 
have needed to grow substantially to have been able to match what he had previously. They 
said Mr G should be compensated in line with the regulators DB transfer methodology for 
this failure. 
However, in respect of the DC element of Mr Gs pension savings, the investigator thought 
the recommendation to transfer out broadly met Mr Gs objectives. Accordingly, they didnt 
think we should uphold this part of the complaint.
FFM responded by disagreeing with the investigators view and I have considered all the 
points made with great care. Most I respond to within my findings below, however, in 
particular I note its been implied that we are holding FFM to incorrect regulatory standards, 
that suitability of the advice was considered by our Service with the benefit of hindsight, and 
that Mr G knew about the risks. FFM also maintained that the recommendation to transfer 
the DB element was sound and in accordance with Mr Gs objectives of having more 
flexibility to access his pension savings earlier in his retirement. FFM said its own analysis 
backed up the recommendation and said the investigator had focussed solely on the critical 
yield, a calculation used when comparing the DB scheme with what growth would be 
needed to buy an annuity. It said this wasnt relevant to Mr Gs situation.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me to make an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin by explaining that although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have 
read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in 
order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable. When considering what is fair 
and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, FFM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Ive taken a careful note of the records FFM has from the time, including its fact-find and 
recommendation report. And having considered everything, I am upholding Mr Gs complaint 
about the DB pension element and directing FFM to put matters right. This is because I think 
the recommendation to transfer from the DB scheme was unsuitable. 
For the DC pension element, I think the recommendation to transfer to a drawdown plan was 
reasonable. I am therefore not upholding this part of the complaint.
Overview
The Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) for Mr Gs DB plan in 2016 was approximately 
£436,000 and this formed the larger part of his retirement savings. He had accrued deferred 
benefits having completed over 27 years of pensionable service and the estimated pension 
payable at the scheme retirement age of 65 was around £24,500 per year, and £12,500 
upon early retirement at 57. These were valuable benefits at a low cost and also index-linked 
to keep pace with inflation. 
In 2006, Mr Gs company stopped the future accrual within the DB scheme and opened a 
DC scheme which he joined. So, as well as the DB element Ive mentioned above, Mr G had 
then also accrued a sizable pot of money in the DC scheme. And as part of Mr Gs 
redundancy agreement a further substantial lump sum was added to the DC pension. By 
2016, this meant the transfer value for Mr Gs DC plan was approximately £188,000. 
Mr G was 56 years old at the time he was first advised by FFM. He had been married for 
many years and owned his main home jointly with his wife. Only a moderate mortgage of 
around 10% was outstanding on their main property, which had a market value of £200,000. He and Mrs G also owned a property abroad, with a loan outstanding of less than 10% of the 
£140,000 market value. The mortgage interest rate for both these loans was said to be 1%. 
Mr and Mrs G owned a further property outright. This had no mortgage and was valued at 
around £130,000, albeit it was jointly owned with a close family member. A car loan was 
outstanding and being paid down.
According to FFMs own records from the time, Mr and Mrs G had access to £131,000 in 
cash savings, bolstered by redundancy payments for both Mr and Mrs G. Mr G was in good 
health in 2016. A summary of what FFM said that their assessment revealed and what Mr G 
wanted to achieve is as follows:
a preference for a higher income in the earlier part of retirement whilst Mr and Mrs G 
were still relatively young; a joint income of around £500 per week was discussed 
with an expectation that this amount would reduce over the years as Mr and Mrs G 
both got older,
A requirement for around £3,000 per year to spend on their family and £5,000 per 
year to help fund a new car every three years or so,
A preference that any outstanding pension savings upon death could be inherited by 
Mr Gs family.
The FFM report that eventually recommended the whole transfer of Mr Gs pension savings 
(DB and DC elements) highlighted the following benefits to him and Mrs G:
Higher tax-free cash
Investment diversity
Greater control
Retirement flexibility
Consolidation and easier administration
Ive considered all this information and Im going to deal with both the DB and DC elements 
of Mr Gs pensions separately, as the issues involved differ slightly. 
DB pension transfer
As our investigator explained, DB schemes typically have significant benefits and 
guarantees. Giving up benefits and guarantees available under a DB scheme and subjecting 
future pension income to the risks associated with unpredictable investment returns should 
only be done where it can be shown that it was clearly in the best interests of Mr G. 
So, as Ive set out above, the starting point here is that a transfer will not usually be suitable.  
In my view, having looked at Mr Gs DB scheme and benefits, and all the evidence available,  
Im not satisfied the DB transfer was in Mr Gs best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
When Mr G was given advice, the recommendation report referred to the critical yield, which 
I explained about earlier. Our investigator referred to this in the view he sent out to both 
parties to help demonstrate a comparison between transferring out of Mr Gs DB pension 
and the benefits he would have at his normal retirement age of 65 if he stayed in. The critical 
yield is a useful benchmark, which I explain more about later on, although I note in Mr Gs 
case, he had indicated a desire to retire very soon, at around 57 years of age.
In his case, however, the critical yield required to match Mr Gs scheme benefits at age 65 
was 8.14% if he took a full pension, and 5.86% if he took a tax-free cash element and a 
reduced pension. And FFM said in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal 
value to the estimated benefits provided by the existing scheme assuming no spouses 
pension, no increases in payment and no guarantee  the hurdle rate  was 3.25%. The 
transfer value analysis also compared retirement at the age of 57. In this case the critical 
yield was 47.23%.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before October 2017 and was 
3.5% per year for eight years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection growth rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower 
projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken all this into account along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr 
Gs low medium attitude to risk and also his retirement plans. There would be little point in 
him giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield 
was 5.86%, I think Mr G was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
FFM disagrees with the critical yield concept and implies this is a restrictive comparison 
applicable only to purchasing an annuity. It says this didnt apply to Mr Gs situation and 
provided a number of alternative financial models which it implied show Mr G would have 
been able to meet his and Mrs Gs needs in retirement. 
Nevertheless, the critical yield is a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being 
relinquished. And the models provided by FFM included a wider assessment of Mr and Mrs 
Gs assets to demonstrate their retirement plans were viable over a number of years - these 
were not direct comparisons with the benefits being given up. I also think Mr G would have 
found these models difficult to understand, and certainly, to draw like for like comparisons 
from. Also, as FFM will know, past performance of invested funds is no guarantee for future 
performance and so there was no assurance that the funds recommended would have 
provided better benefits than the scheme Mr G was already in. I therefore consider the 
regulators standard projections and discount rates to be more realistic in this regard in the 
long term. So, looking at financial viability in isolation, a transfer out of the DB scheme 
wasnt in Mr Gs best interests. 
However, I went on to assess whether there might be other considerations relevant to Mr Gs 
situation which made the advice suitable.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr G required the degree of flexibility with his pension sums in early retirement 
in the way that was put forward by FFM. I say this because Mr and Mrs G already had access to a substantial amount of cash. In my view, the notes of discussion and 
recommendation that flowed from those discussions fail to sufficiently take Mr and Mrs Gs 
large amount of savings into account. I also note he was able to invest the entire sum of the 
pension funds directly after the transfer took place, and he took well over a year before 
deciding what he wanted to do. 
So, although the issue of flexibility is recorded at numerous points, and that Mr G wanted to 
retire relatively early, the meaning of the actual flexibility being sought is much less clear. I 
also think the recommendation report leans significantly towards the benefits of transferring 
and not so much on the advantages and the exploration of alternatives. I cant see evidence, 
for example, that Mr G had a strong need for a variable income in retirement. Rather, he was 
clear about needing £500 per week for general living expenses and lump sums to help with 
family gifts and funding a new car every three years. It also seems to me that whilst 
comments around him preferring a higher income at the beginning of retirement were no 
doubt genuinely held, I think these were aspirational comments and they took little account 
of other unforeseen or age-related outcomes such as Mr and Mrs Gs ongoing health and 
needs beyond this initial early retirement period. 
Im satisfied that Mr G could have met his and Mrs Gs income needs in retirement without 
transferring out of the DB scheme, which had valuable and guaranteed benefits, even at the 
age of 57. Given his circumstances and financial resources, retirement at 57 could have 
been met in a number of ways. 
Our investigator said Mr G wanted an income of around £34,000 (net) per year in retirement 
comprising of the elements Ive described above, according to the information gathered by 
FFM. However, Ive taken account of FFMs representatives reply to this matter and I agree it 
is reasonable to say that the income required actually was around £26,000, with the other 
items being funded by lump sums drawn from other sources. 
As our investigator considered, Mr Gs could have used his substantial cash savings and 
also his DC pension without immediately accessing his DB scheme. These were substantial 
funds which, even without any growth, would have been enough to cover his expenditure 
requirements until the age of 65 and still allowed flexible access, without touching his DB 
pension at all. At 65, he would then have access to a higher amount from his DB scheme, 
around £24,500 per year. And as Ive also said above, at 66 Mr G would have access to the 
state pension, currently equivalent to around £9,400 per year. This option would enable a 
total income of around the desired figure whilst also preserving the guarantees and benefits 
of the DB scheme. I dont think this was explored enough with Mr G.
Death benefits
Death benefits can be an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension plan were most likely an attractive feature to Mr G. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits were important to Mr G - and he might have thought it was a 
good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this - the priority here 
was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement, rather than inheritable wealth. And I dont think 
FFM explored to what extent Mr G was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.
I therefore think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. 
Mr G was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme would have 
been useful and important to Mrs G if Mr G predeceased her, particularly as her own 
pension income was moderate. I dont think FFM made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr G. This was guaranteed and was not dependent on investment performance, whereas 
the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
Summary
In my view, the recommendation Mr G was given in relation to transferring out of the DB 
element underplayed the risks of giving up a secure income with many guarantees. It failed 
to take enough account of the options above and the other opportunities they presented for 
retirement funding, whilst still preserving the important benefits from his existing scheme.
I am therefore upholding this part of the complaint and in doing so Id like to emphasise that I 
have considered Mr Gs circumstances, not with hindsight, but from the perspective I think 
was apparent at the time FFM gave the advice. I havent seen persuasive reasons why Mr G 
needed to transfer out of his DB scheme or that it was in his best interest to give up the 
guaranteed DB benefits.
DC pension transfer
Our investigator issued his view and recommended that we should not uphold this element 
of the complaint. He thought about the reasons given for the advice to transfer the DC 
element and observed that Mr G had actually gone on to drawdown funds at a later date. 
The investigator also thought the funds the pension savings were placed into were generally 
right for Mr G, given his ATR rating. 
I broadly agree with this and I make reference above to the part the transferred DC element 
plays in achieving Mr Gs retirement aspirations and the support and flexibility it provides in 
allowing him to maintain the important benefits of the DB scheme. 
Its fair to point out the costs were somewhat higher in the scheme he transferred the 
existing DC part into and also that his existing DC scheme was already invested in funds in 
accordance with his attitude to risk. However, his existing DC scheme did come with certain 
restrictions and rules about accessing the money. After transferring out, Mr G went on to 
utilise the drawdown features and the rules of his old DC scheme had made it clear that if he 
had wanted an income, he might need to transfer his plan to another provider.
So, this means that as far as the DC element of Mr Gs pension is concerned, Im satisfied 
transferring out of the scheme was suitable for the reasons given. I also think the funds he 
went on to invest in were suitable for him. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for FFMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
FFM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
Mr G accessed his transferred funds from age 57 However, as set out above, I think if he 
had remained in the DB scheme, he likely would have relied on his DC pension and cash 
savings to fund his early retirement. So FFM should assume for the calculations that Mr G 
would have taken benefits from the DB scheme at 65.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
FFM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date FFM receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes FFM to pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Fairstone Financial 
Management Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Fairstone Financial Management Limited to pay Mr G any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Fairstone 
Financial Management Limited to pay Mr G any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Fairstone Financial Management Limited pays Mr G the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.If Mr G accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Fairstone Financial 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman