DRN-2418766
The complaint
Company B has complained about Ageas Insurance Limited. It wasnt happy about the 
valuation Ageas offered for its van after it was written off following a claim under its 
commercial motor insurance policy.
All references to Ageas include its agents.
What happened
B made a claim on its commercial motor insurance policy and Ageas wrote off its van and 
offered to pay the market value. Company B wasnt happy about this as it thought that the 
van was worth more and it wasnt happy that Ageas deducted an amount for pre-existing 
damage. So he complained to Ageas and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for B but didnt uphold its complaint. He was of the view 
that Ageas hadnt acted unreasonably. He thought Ageas had offered a fair market value 
and that the deductions, because the van had pre-existing damage, was fair. 
As B didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know B wont be happy about 
this, but Ill explain why.
Valuing second hand vehicles is difficult and far from an exact science. And as our 
investigator explained this service has a set approach to considering valuations placed on 
vehicles by insurance companies. So Ive looked at the approach Ageas have adopted and 
looked to decide whether or not the valuation Ageas offered is fair in all the circumstances. 
Generally I pay particular attention to the various trade valuation guides used for valuing 
vehicles, as well as other evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include 
advertisements for the sale of similar vehicles, but I place less weight on these than on the 
trade guides, as vehicles dont normally sell for the price at which they are advertised. The 
condition of the vehicle at the time the theft or damage occurred is also an important factor 
to consider. I will only order a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
When Ageas valued Bs van it looked at a couple of trade guides and offered a valuation in 
line with those. I know B feels that the van is worth a few thousand more. But our 
investigator also looked at the various trade guides available as well and confirmed that the 
valuations are in line with the offer Ageas made. So as the terms and conditions of the policy 
say that in the event of a total loss the most Ageas will pay is the vans market value, and I 
think that is what they have offered, I think Ageass valuation is fair.
Secondly, Ive looked at whether Ageas acted reasonably in making a deduction as Bs van 
had pre-existing damage, and I think it did. Again, I know this will be disappointing to B, but I 
think the deduction was fair in the circumstances.
As our investigator explained this service has a set approach to these issues. I know B feels 
that the pre-existing damage couldve been repaired a lot cheaper and that it would have 
repaired the van before selling it. But Ageas has provided detailed evidence from an 
independent engineer about the level of pre-existing damage to the van and Ive seen 
photos confirming this. As such I cant say that Ageas has acted unreasonably in deducting 
50% of the cost of the pre-existing damage in line with this services approach.
Finally, I understand B wants costs it incurred in hiring a replacement van. But as I dont 
think that Ageas did anything wrong and offered a fair valuation, minus the costs of the pre-
existing damage, I dont think Ageas is responsible for these.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman