DRN-3439133
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) sent her an incorrect 
retirement quote for her defined benefit pension benefits. She said this left her with financial 
difficulties. She also said PIC provided a poor service as it caused delays to the receipt of 
her retirement benefits.
What happened
Mrs G had a defined benefit pension with a previous employer. PIC was responsible 
administering those benefits.
I understand that in May 2019 Mrs G requested, through her Independent Financial Adviser 
(IFA), an early retirement quote from PIC. The quote was based on a retirement date of 21 
June 2019. 
Mrs Gs IFA then repeatedly chased PIC to ask it when they could expect the retirement 
quote. PICs call notes recorded that the IFA made a complaint regarding the delay of the 
retirement quote on 27 June 2019. 
PICs call notes also recorded that on 1 July 2019 it called Mrs Gs IFA to apologise for the 
quote delay. And to explain that it was due to a manual calculation being required. The notes 
also recorded that the IFA said the issue was that they were never given a timescale or an 
explanation for the delay. PIC apologised and told the IFA they would have the retirement 
quote by email in three days time at the latest.
PIC said it sent the retirement quote to Mrs Gs IFA on 2 July 2019.  But it wasnt received. 
So it was sent again on 8 July 2019 by email. The quote showed an option of tax-free cash 
of £73,676.04 plus a reduced annual pension of £11,051.41. The quote noted that the 
benefits had been adjusted to take account of early payment. And asked Mrs G to provide 
certain completed paperwork and proof of identify if she wanted to take her retirement 
benefits. These included her original birth and marriage certificate, and her husbands 
original birth certificate. 
The quote also stated it was an estimate based on current factors. And that PIC would 
recalculate the final benefits. It said that if the benefits were more than 5% lower, it would 
confirm the figures.
Mrs G decided to take the quoted retirement benefits. She said that she was going to use 
them towards a house purchase. She completed the retirement form, which she signed on 2 
October 2019 to accept the 2 July 2019 retirement quote.
PIC said that, as part of its standard practice, it completed a review of the pension benefit 
calculation when it received Mrs Gs form. And that it identified that the quote was incorrect. 
So it recalculated Mrs Gs retirement benefits. It said it completed the recalculation on 16 
October 2019. And issued a new quote with the correct figures.
PICs call notes recorded that Mrs Gs IFA had called on 16 October 2019 to chase the 
pension payment. PIC told the IFA it was at the recalculation stage. 
The recalculated retirement quote produced on 16 October 2019 stated that Mrs G could 
choose to take £64,458.92 of tax-free cash, plus reduced pension of £11,008.65 each year. 
The pension would still effectively be paid from Mrs Gs selected retirement date of 21 June 
2019. The quote stated that if Mrs G wanted to take her retirement benefits, shed need to 
complete the paperwork and provide documents as before. 
Mrs G contacted PIC on 18 October 2019 to ask it when shed receive her retirement 
benefits. She hadnt yet seen the reduced 16 October 2019 quote. She was told PIC had 
written to her to ask her to provide original copies of her birth certificate, marriage certificate 
and her husbands birth certificate. And that when these had been received, it would then 
take another few weeks for the money to be sent. PICs call notes recorded that Mrs G told it 
she needed her case looking into urgently as she was buying a new house and needed the 
money from her pension or she might lose the house.
A further call note from the 18 October 2019 recorded that PIC told Mrs G itd sent a new 
letter and would need to receive the forms again. At this point, Mrs G raised a complaint. 
PIC said that at this point, it told Mrs G itd made a mistake, and that she would actually only 
be receiving a tax-free cash lump sum of £64,458.92. 
Mrs G said she explained to PIC that the delay and change in the amount she would be paid 
would impact her impending house move, as shed been relying on her tax-free cash lump 
sum. She felt she was now almost £10,000 down on what shed expected. She felt this 
meant shed have to withdraw money from her husbands pension, which would lead to 
further tax being paid, to make up the difference. 
PIC said itd investigate the mistake and would ensure the correct figure was paid as soon 
as possible.
PIC then arranged for the payment of Mrs Gs tax-free cash lump sum and her monthly 
pension arrears to be made on 21 October 2019. It wrote to her on that date to confirm the 
pension benefits that had been paid in respect of her 21 June 2019 retirement date. These 
were a £64,458.92 tax-free cash lump sum. And £3,971.17, gross of income tax. The letter 
explained that the £3,971.17 gross payment represented the total pension payments due 
from 21 June 2019 to 31 October 2019. It also confirmed that it would make the first regular 
monthly pension payment of £917.39 on 1 November 2019.  The letter stated that Mrs G 
would have to pay emergency tax.
PICs call notes recorded that on 21 October 2019 Ms G called to say shed received less 
that what shed been quoted. PIC explained it was due to her being taxed on the pension 
arrears payment.
PICs call notes also recorded that on 23 October 2019 Mrs Gs IFA called to question why 
the selected retirement date had been chosen, as it wasnt Mrs Gs birthday. PIC confirmed 
that Mrs Gs record stated that was the date shed requested for her retirement. 
PIC issued its final response on the complaint on 4 November 2019. It apologised for the 
distress and inconvenience itd caused. And said that its service hadnt been of the standard 
Mrs G should expect from it, as it had found that there had been delays and errors in its 
service while processing Mrs Gs retirement. It also said it shouldve contacted Mrs G sooner 
to let her know that itd recalculated the benefits. 
PIC apologised for telling Mrs G on 18 October 2019 that it would take a few weeks to process her retirement. And that it would need identification documents from her. It said this 
wasnt correct as shed already successfully passed its electronic identification check. It also 
said that it had arranged for both calculations to be reviewed by its actuaries to ensure that 
the pension benefits that had been put into payment were correct. And that its actuaries had 
confirmed that the final benefits detailed in its 21 October 2019 letter were correct. 
PIC also explained why its original quote had been wrong. It said it was due to an error 
during the calculation in the way Mrs Gs guaranteed minimum pension had been applied to 
her benefits, which had led to it not being proportioned correctly. It apologised that it hadnt 
identified this error at the time. 
PIC offered Mrs G £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the error and the 
delays shed experienced had caused.  But acknowledged that she had rejected its offer on 
the basis that it didnt cover the impacts to her. This was because her husband had needed 
to take additional funds from his pension benefits to complete the house purchase. 
Unhappy, Mrs G brought her complaint to this service. She said that PIC should pay her the 
higher amount itd originally quoted. But she was open to discuss a settlement. She felt the 
£150 PIC had offered was an insult given itd admitted itd made errors. 
Our investigator got in touch with PIC about its compensation offer, as itd said that the £150 
offered was no longer in line with its current guidelines. PIC confirmed that if was to review 
the case in line with its current complaints procedure, it would look to offer Mrs G £300. It 
said it would now offer Mrs G £300 compensation in acknowledgement of the delays to the 
original quote, the errors in that quote, and the errors in the information itd given her when 
she contacted it. It also noted that it had issued a quote to Mrs G in 2018. It felt that the 
earlier quote wouldve suggested that the figures itd quoted in July 2019 were incorrect.
Our investigator felt that PICs revised offer fairly reflected the impact of its mistakes and 
delays. He said he couldnt make PIC pay the original quote. And that he felt itd been clear 
in saying it was an estimate. He also said that Mrs G wasnt entitled to the higher figure as it 
was a genuine error which PIC later corrected.
Mrs G didnt agree with our investigator. She still didnt consider that PICs compensation 
offer was fair. She said that she didnt believe the difference between the estimated figures 
and the final figures would be so large. She said it had caused her and her husband so 
much stress. And that the error had caused worry about losing the house they were in the 
process of buying. She said that if her husband hadnt taken £10,000 from his pension the 
house sale wouldve fallen through. 
Mrs G said she acknowledged that she wouldnt be able to receive the different between the 
two quotes from PIC, but felt that it should offer her a more reasonable compensation given 
the errors and delays it had caused.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that PICs original offer 
of £150 wasnt fair. But I consider that its updated offer of £300 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused is fair. Although Ive upheld the complaint, given the changed offer 
from PIC, I acknowledge that Mrs G will still be disappointed. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
The benefits Mrs G was entitled to from her old employers scheme were defined under its 
Trust Deed. PICs role was to calculate the benefits in line with that Trust Deed. Both the 
correct and the incorrect quotes stated the following about the figures:
The estimated figures we have quoted have been calculated in line with the Trust deed and 
rules. We have made every effort to make sure the figures are accurate but if there is any 
error, your benefits will be limited to your entitlement under the Trust deed and rules.
The July 2019 quote also stated: 
The figures we quote are estimates based on current factors and we will need to recalculate 
your final benefits at your actual retirement date. We will pay your recalculated benefits in 
line with the option you choose on the retirement decision form, unless the benefits are more 
than 5% lower, in which case we will confirm the revised figures
When Mrs G had confirmed the retirement option she wanted to take on 2 October 2019, 
PIC followed its standard practice and reviewed the calculations the July 2019 quote had 
been based on. This process identified that the July 2019 quote had been incorrectly 
calculated. The correct calculations showed that the July 2019 tax-free cash figures had 
been overstated by over £9,000. This was considerably more than a 5% difference. So PIC 
confirmed the revised figures by getting its actuaries to review the calculations. It identified 
the reason for the incorrect calculation and explained what had happened to Mrs G.
From what Ive seen, PIC did explain in the July 2019 quote that the figures were estimates. 
And it noted that it was possible that the eventual benefits would be more than 5% lower 
than those quoted. Once itd identified that an error had been made after Mrs G had sent her 
retirement form back on 2 October 2019, it issued the correct figures.
I dont consider that the 16 October 2019 quote that PIC sent to Mrs G took into 
consideration that the figures it contained were substantially lower than those that had been 
sent in July 2019. I think it wouldve been better if the letter had explained why the figures 
were so different. However, Mrs G didnt find out about the correct figures from this letter. 
Instead, she was told during a phone call with PIC on 18 October 2019.
When Mrs G told PIC why it was important that she received her tax-free cash funds quickly 
during a call on 18 October 2019, I consider it took reasonable steps to mitigate the issues 
she was facing. It arranged for payment to be made quickly. 
Having said that, I appreciate that PICs mistake had a worrying impact on Mrs G. She had 
relied on the information in the July 2019 quote being correct for her impending house 
purchase. And I understand why Mrs G was shocked at quite how different the eventual 
retirement figures were from those quoted in July 2019. 
As our investigator noted, this service doesnt check calculations the business has provided. 
However, PIC did provide all of the calculations it based the quotes on to this service. And 
Im satisfied that it fairly checked that the October 2019 calculations were correct. Therefore 
I consider that Mrs G did receive the correct level of tax-free cash and pension that she was 
entitled to under the Trust Deed and Rules of her former employers scheme.   
I also note that PIC said that it had issued a quote to Mrs G in 2018. And that PICs call 
notes recorded that Mrs G had requested retirement figures in March 2019. The 4 March 
2019 call note PIC provided to this service stated that as Mrs G was due to meet her IFA, 
shed called to ask them for the values of her pension. It said it had provided the requested figures. 
A further phone note from 18 March 2019 states that Mrs G called to ask for her deferred 
benefit amount and the amount at her normal retirement date. And also a transfer quotation. 
The transfer quote was chased by Mrs Gs IFA on 10 April 2019. And the IFA further queried 
with PIC whether Mrs G had any additional voluntary contributions on 23 April 2019. 
PIC felt that the 2018 quote wouldve suggested that the figures itd quoted in July 2019 
were incorrect. Although I havent been provided with a copy of this quote, I take the view 
that Mrs G had seen other figures over the recent past that couldve indicated that the July 
2019 quote might be incorrect. I dont consider that she shouldve known the figures were 
incorrect. But I am of the view that she may have felt they were inconsistent with figures 
shed previously been given. This, alongside the warning on the July 2019 quote that it was 
only an estimate, persuades me that Mrs G shouldnt have relied on the quote being 
completely accurate. 
As I believe that Mrs G has received the correct benefits, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to ask PIC to honour the quote it sent in July 2019. But I can consider whether the £300 
compensation it has now offered in respect of the distress and inconvenience it caused Mrs 
G was sufficient under the circumstances. 
The fact that Mrs G was relying on her pension money for her upcoming house purchase 
clearly made an already stressful situation much worse. So Ive gone on to consider how the 
incorrect quote, and PICs other mistakes and the delays it caused, impacted Mrs G.
From what Ive seen, PIC took longer than it should to provide the July 2019 quote. Mrs G 
and her IFA both had to chase this several times. However, it then took several weeks for 
Mrs G to submit her completed retirement form. She did this on 2 October 2019. 
Although I can see that it was an inconvenience to chase the first quote, I dont consider that 
this delayed the process of Mrs G accessing her funds. I say this because she didnt return 
the required form until 2 October 2019. 
When PIC re-ran the calculations after receiving Mrs Gs form, it didnt immediately tell her 
about the error it had identified. In fact, the 16 October 2019 quote it sent to Mrs G didnt 
mention that an error had been made with the July 2019 quote, or try to explain why the 
figures now being quoted were so different. I consider this letter shouldve fully explained 
what had happened and why the figures were so different from those quoted in July 2019.
However, Mrs G actually found out about the incorrect July 2019 quote during a phone call 
on 18 October 2019. And when she explained why it was important that she received her 
pension money soon, PIC quickly arranged for the funds to be paid. PIC also explained, in 
its final response letter issued just over two weeks later, why its July 2019 quote had been 
incorrect. And confirmed that Mrs G had been given the correct pension. 
Ive also seen that PIC gave Mrs G incorrect information about the proof of identity 
information it would need, and how long it would take to pay her pension. From what Ive 
seen, this error was corrected the same day.
I acknowledge that the incorrect calculation couldve reasonably led to the expectation that 
Mrs G might be entitled to a higher pension than she actually was entitled to. But Im 
satisfied that this was a genuine mistake, which was corrected before the pension was paid. 
This service doesnt have a remit to punish a business which has made a genuine mistake. 
We can only look to put a complainant back to the position they wouldve been in but for the 
error. Im confident that Mrs G is already in that position, as shes received the pension benefits she was entitled to. 
I also acknowledge that the initial delays to the quote and the incorrect information wouldve 
been frustrating. PIC has accepted that it couldve provided a better service. And offered 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
Mrs G said the process left her and her husband drained and anxious. And that she only 
found out about the mistake when it was too late to back out of the house sale.
Our investigator has already explained in detail why this service is unable to consider the 
impact of PICs delays and errors on Mrs Gs husband. I acknowledge that hes had to 
withdraw additional funds from his pension due to the lower than expected tax-free cash Mrs 
G received from PIC, and that he may have had to pay tax on this withdrawal. Im sorry that 
hes been inconvenienced in this way. But I agree with our investigator that Mrs Gs husband 
isnt an eligible complainant under the rules this service operates under. So I cant consider 
the impact on him.
Overall, I consider that PICs increased compensation offer of £300 is fair. I say this because 
PIC has acknowledged that it made the mistakes Ive covered above. It apologised, and took 
what I consider reasonable steps to put things right. However, it also considered the impact 
that its mistakes had had on Mrs G. And, in acknowledgement of the delays to the original 
quote, the errors in that quote, and the errors in the information itd given her when she 
contacted it, offered £300.
Im satisfied that Mrs G has been paid the correct pension benefits. Im also satisfied that 
PIC processed the payment of those benefits quickly once Mrs G had explained her urgent 
need for the funds. I appreciate that Mrs G had a loss of expectation about the benefits she 
was going to receive. But Im satisfied that PIC had made it clear that the quote was only an 
estimate, which would need to be recalculated. 
I acknowledge that Mrs G wont consider that £300 compensation is enough. But I consider 
that it fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience the delays and errors have caused her. 
So while Im upholding this complaint, I consider that PICs offer of £300 compensation is 
fair. And I dont require it to take further steps to put things right.
Putting things right
I require Pension Insurance Corporation plc to pay Mrs G £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused her. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Pension Insurance 
Corporation plc to pay Mrs G £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman