DRN-1727344
 
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that First Data Europe Limited trading as First Data 
Merchant Solutions only declined its application after it had committed time and money.
What happened
B says it discussed setting up a merchant services agreement with First Data between May 
and September 2019. This was so it could process card payments through its website. B 
said that it was told to install software to make a test payment and make changes to its 
terms and conditions. But that First Data then said its business was too risky  something it 
should have been able to tell it from the start. This meant it had spent money on 
development costs and its launch had been delayed.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. Hed asked First Data for 
details of its communications with B but had not received anything. Hed seen evidence that 
B had purchased relevant services for First Data for £207.32. And emails between the 
director and developer about issues with a test transaction. There was clearly inconvenience 
caused and he thought that compensation for this of £350 and a payment of £207.32 was 
appropriate.
First Data said it agreed to pay this amount. B did not agree and said that there was a four-
month delay in launching its business. It had to redo the process with a new payment 
provider. The director said it was expecting a compensation payment of about £5,000 and 
asked what more information was needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigators explained that weve little information from First Data about what 
happened. But it clearly accepts that it caused B inconvenience and compensation is 
warranted. 
Its up to B to support its complaint and I think its had a reasonable period of time to provide 
evidence. Ive looked at an exchange of emails Bs provided with First Data on 20 August 
2019 about the test payment. And its provided evidence that it paid £207.32 for a First Data 
Merchant Solutions Payment Plugin  1 Year  With installation on 16 August 2019. B has 
also provided a list of invoice transactions with what I understand to be its developer 
showing entries dating from December 2018 to February 2020.
I havent seen any formal merchant services agreement for B with First Data. And nor have I 
seen any firm commitment that First Data would provide merchant services for B. A decision 
about that was not made until 4 September 2019. And unfortunately, First Data then said 
that the project was declined due to the risks involved. B says it had a loss of expectation 
and I dont doubt had the impression that if it made changes to its website then there would 
not be an issue with its application. Im afraid though that, as I said, there was no firm 
commitment that B could hold First Data to. So even if I was able to separate further specific 
and wasted costs incurred, I dont consider I could fairly hold First Data responsible for them 
 this was a risk that B as a business took. 
Putting things right 
B has clearly been caused inconvenience by what happened and needed to make other 
arrangements. Ive considered what the appropriate level of compensation is, putting weight 
on what its said about that in the absence of evidence from First Data. Having done so I 
think the level now recommended of £350 is reasonable. This should be paid plus the 
amount of £207.32 I referred to above which was for a propriety plug in for First Data and 
for which I think B should fairly be recompensed for too.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require First Data Europe Limited trading as 
First Data Merchant Solutions to pay B £557.32.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman