DRN-2573211
The complaint
Mr F complains about invoices hes received from Financial Claims Advisory Service Ltd 
(FCAS) for work theyve carried out on claims for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance 
(PPI). He says he never instructed them and wants them to refund fees hes already paid, 
cancel the remaining invoice and pay compensation for the stress this has caused him. 
What happened
FCAS sent a letter to Mr F enclosing a cheque from Lender C and their invoice. This was 
paid by Mr F. He then received a letter from Lender B with a cheque followed by an invoice 
for fees from FCAS. Mr F says he was concerned about FCASs involvement in the claims 
so he complained.   
 
FCAS responded and said they received Mr Fs details and request to look into mis-sold PPI 
as a result of him completing their claims form on their website. They said they had sent 
correspondence to Mr F while handling his claim and he had never raised any concerns 
about their involvement. FCAS didnt uphold the complaint and said the fee for the work 
theyve carried out in the claim against Lender B is payable.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr F and thought that FCAS hadnt acted 
unreasonably in pursuing Mr Fs claims and charging him a fee. Mr F disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr F will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Its clear theres a dispute here about whether Mr F instructed FCAS to handle his claims for 
mis-sold PPI. Mr F says he never provided a digital signature and FCAS say Mr F has 
completed the sign-up process which gave them authority to deal with the claims. Given the 
different accounts, Ive looked at the evidence and what I think is more likely to have 
happened than not.  
Ive seen from system notes provided by FCAS that they have Mr Fs personal details, 
including his full name, date of birth and email address  these are the same details we 
have. FCAS say these are required as part of the sign-up process. The notes also provide 
details of four lenders  two of these being Lender B and Lender C. Ive seen forms of 
authority for these two lenders which contain a signature. 
Mr F says hes never signed any forms and this is a point on which I agree. I say this 
because FCAS have described the process involved when consumers sign-up and this 
doesnt involve signing each form of authority. FCAS say part of the sign-up process 
involves a request for a digital signature, and this can be done by a customer using their 
finger or a stylus. They say the signature is only taken once and is then applied to the forms 
of authority for each lender the customer wants to claim against. Ive looked at the four forms 
of authority with Mr Fs signature and not only are all four signatures completely identical but 
the signature is in the exact same area of the signature box. So, taking this into account, Im 
persuaded by FCASs explanation of the signature process and believe a signature is taken 
once and then applied to all forms of authority. 
I note Mr F says hes never provided a digital signature but, from the information Ive seen, I 
think its reasonable for FCAS to believe the signature on their system belongs to Mr F. I say 
this because, in order to settle the two claims, FCAS will have sent the lenders Mr Fs form 
of authority. FCAS say the lenders will verify Mr Fs signature against what they have on 
their records. And, neither lender rejected the signature and instead provided the required 
history of Mr Fs credit information. While I do understand signatures can vary over time, I 
believe its more likely than not, that at least one of the lenders wouldve raised a concern if 
they felt the signature was different to the one they have on their record. And, given that 
theres no evidence any lender raised a challenge, I think its reasonable for FCAS to believe 
Mr F has provided a digital signature. 
Ive also seen communication which has been sent by FCAS to Mr F, some of these as part 
of a general update to all clients. The correspondence to all clients makes reference to a 
number of points which I think would suggest to the recipient that FCAS is pursuing a claim 
for them. The correspondence refers to the recipient as a client and says your ongoing PPI 
claims and What this means for your PPI claims. These were sent while Mr Fs claims 
were still ongoing and, given that I havent seen any evidence which shows that Mr F 
challenged FCASs involvement at these times, I think he was aware that FCAS are acting 
for him. I also cant ignore the fact that Mr F has paid FCASs fee for dealing with his claim 
against Lender C. Again, I cant see Mr F challenged this at the time or raised any queries 
about who FCAS are and how they came to be involved in his claim. 
I can see from information provided by FCAS that a consumer, when completing the sign-up 
process, must tick a box which allows them to submit their details. Theres a statement 
which says Use the check box below to agree to our T&Cs. Please note that the signature 
you have provided in the previous step will be used to sign acceptance of our T&Cs. FCAS 
say, if the box wasnt ticked, then Mr F wouldnt have been able to proceed and they 
wouldnt have received any of Mr Fs information. So, taking this all into account, I dont think 
FCAS have acted unfairly or unreasonably in pursuing Mr Fs claims. From the information I 
have seen, they have settled the claims based on instructions provided by Mr F.  
I note Mr F wants FCAS to refund the fees hes paid for settling his claim with Lender C as 
well as waiving their fees for his claim against Lender B. So, Ive looked at whether FCAS 
have acted reasonably in claiming fees for the work theyve carried out. I can see from the 
terms and conditions document, FCAS set out the scope of the work they will carry out. This 
says FCAS will pursue a claim against a lender for mis-sold PPI. They also set out their fees 
and explain they will charge 24% (inclusive of VAT) of any sum recovered. Further in the 
document it says Mr F is responsible for settling FCASs fees once the lender has made a 
payment of compensation. It also gives an example of how the fees would be applied using 
different figures. So, I think the terms and conditions do make it clear that FCAS are dealing 
with claims for mis-sold PPI and what they will charge if any claims are successful.  
In relation to the claim against Lender B, Ive seen the letter sent to Mr F by Lender B and 
this says Mr F will receive a payment of £1,279.23. The letter refers to information which has 
been provided by FCAS so this shows that FCAS has carried out work in the matter. Ive 
also seen the letter sent by Lender C to FCAS saying theyve upheld the complaint about 
mis-sold PPI and will be sending a cheque for £96.84. Theres no dispute that Mr F has received compensation for the two claims so FCAS are acting in line with the terms and 
conditions in charging a fee for the work theyve carried out. 
I can also see, from the tick box section Ive referred to earlier, beside the tick box, theres a 
statement which reads, I agree to the above T&Cs and understand that a fee of 20% + VAT 
of any sum recovered is payable on completion of any successful claim(s). Taking this all 
into account, Ive seen that FCAS have carried out work and theyve also made Mr F aware 
of their fee structure. So, I think FCAS havent acted unreasonably in charging Mr F fees for 
the work theyve done.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman