DRN-4015402
The complaint
A limited company that I have referred to as S complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc altering 
the charges associated with its business bank account.
What happened
The following is only intended as a brief summary of the main events. Additionally, for the 
sake of simplicity I have just referred to S and HSBC rather than any specific individual. 
S held a business bank account with HSBC. In December 2022, S contacted HSBC to 
complain that the charges associated with its business bank account had been increased. 
HSBC responded, saying that it changes to the charges had been made, to reflect the 
evolving needs of all our customers so that they remain relevant and also sustainable for the 
long-term. HSBC also said that it had advised S of the charges in July 2022. S remained 
unhappy. It said it had not received any notification that the bank charges were to be 
increased. And it brought its complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
However, our Investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that 
HSBC had complied with the account terms and conditions by providing S with the required 
notice of the changes. And that if S had not received this letter, this was not something that 
HSBC could be held responsible for. The Investigator referred to both the letter sent in July 
2022 and a previous letter sent in August 2021.
S was not satisfied with this and did not consider it was fair that HSBC had increased the 
charges by so much. It also explained that as soon as it had become aware of this change it 
had changed banks. And that the July 2022 letter had not set the changes out in detail.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it was passed to me for a decision. I 
noted that although there had been a discussion of the July 2022 letter, it was the 
August 2021 letter  and associated Notice of Variation  that had set out the changes to the 
charges. So, I provided S with a copy of these, noting that both this and the July 2022 letter 
explained that these changes weren't applied to S's account in 2021 as there had been a 
recent change in the tariff prior to August 2021. S responded, in part, saying that the charges 
that impacted it the most had not been highlighted by HSBC in its letters/notice. And that the 
notice had not been included in paper format with the banks August 2021 letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate that the changes to Ss account meant that it would have to pay much more in 
charges each year. However, as the terms and conditions of the account set out, the bank 
will occasionally have to make changes to the account. The changes were applied to all 
accounts, and did not discriminate against S. And the August 2021 letter and associated 
Notice of Variation set out what these changes were.
I note S has said that this did not highlight the change to the charge for cash deposits. 
However, the August 2021 letter did say that some fees were increasing and also that 
businesses could reduce the cost associated with cash transactions by using lower cost 
transactions. I appreciate Ss business may not necessarily allow for this, but I do think that 
this statement would have alerted S to the fact that it might need to check the charges for 
cash transactions. And the Notice of Variation clearly sets out what these charges would be.
I also note that this Notice of Variation was not provided in paper format with the 
August 2021 letter. But a link to this document was clearly provided and it was stated that 
this document fully explained the changes being made. And as the Investigator said, many 
banks do not routinely send larger documents in paper format so as to save paper. I agree 
with her that this is not unreasonable. 
The August 2021 letter also made it clear that these changes to the charges were not going 
to be applied to S immediately. And that HSBC would write to S again to let it know when it 
would be switching to the new tariff. 
The July 2022 letter referred back to the August 2021 letter and explained that S would now 
be switching to the new tariff. This letter did not refer to changes in charges, but S had 
already been notified of these changes. And I think it would be reasonable for a customer to 
refer back to the previous letter that had been sent. 
S's account then switched to the new tariff more than two months after this notification. So, I 
do not consider HSBCs actions to be unfair or unreasonable. 
I appreciate that S may not have received the letter(s) HSBC sent. But they were correctly 
addressed. And so, any failure in the delivery of these is not something HSBC can be held 
responsible for. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman