DRN-3116363
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how PSA Finance UK Limited dealt with his request for assistance 
after he fell into financial difficulties due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
On 12 June 2019, Mr P, a self-employed driving instructor, entered into two hire agreements 
with PSA. For Agreement 1, Mr P paid an initial rental of £976.32 and an initial service 
charge payment of £153.75. This was followed by 23 monthly rental payments of £325.44 
and 23 monthly service charge payments of £51.25.
For Agreement 2, Mr P paid an initial rental of £788.15 and an initial service charge payment 
of £189.79. This was followed by 23 monthly rental payments of £262.75 and 23 monthly 
service charge payments of £29.93. The service charge payments for both Agreement 1 and 
Agreement 2 were to cover road tax payments and other servicing related assistance.
On 9 April 2020, Mr P contacted PSA as his income had been affected by the Covid-19 
pandemic. PSA asked him to complete financial assistance forms through their online portal, 
which Mr P did. And PSA said theyd contact Mr P by email or phone, once his application 
had been assessed, to let him know the outcome. Mr P chased PSA for an update in late 
April 2020 and was told that PSA were dealing with a large number of applications, and 
things were taking longer than expected.
On 1 May 2020, PSA uploaded documents to the portal, explaining that Mr P had been 
granted a three-month payment deferral (also known as a payment holiday) on both 
agreements. PSA said that the monthly rental payments wouldnt need to be paid during the 
deferral period, but the service charges would. PSA also said that, at the end of the deferral 
period, the rental payment and service charge for Agreement 1 would increase to a total of 
£394.91, and the rental payment and service charge for Agreement 2 would increase to a 
total of £325.87.
On 19 May 2020, PSA sent Mr P an arrears letter, because the service charge payments 
hadnt been paid. Mr P contacted PSA about this letter on 27 May 2020. And hes said that 
this was the first time PSA made him aware of the letters theyd uploaded to the portal on 1 
May 2020. Mr P complained to PSA about this, but PSA didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong. So, he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that PSA hadnt treated Mr P fairly. While he thought theyd acted 
reasonably by offering Mr P a payment deferral, he didnt think it was fair theyd uploaded 
the terms of this to the portal, when they said theyd contact Mr P by phone or email about it, 
or that they didnt give Mr P the opportunity to accept the alteration to the terms of the 
agreements.
The investigator said that Mr P was forced to accept a change to the agreements which 
meant he kept the cars longer than originally expected, and he had to pay more overall for 
the cars. He said that, in total, Mr P paid an additional £720.02 than he otherwise wouldve 
done under the original agreements. But he also said that Mr P had the benefit of the cars 
for an additional three months, which he thought Mr P should pay for. So, he didnt think that 
PSA needed to repay the additional £720.02. And, because the service charges covered 
road tax payments and other servicing related assistance, which Mr P had the benefit of, the 
investigator thought it was fair that Mr P also made these payments.
But the investigator said that the information PSA had given Mr P was unclear and was not 
provided by the method PSA said it would. And Mr P was also impacted by PSA taking 
action to enforce changes to the agreements without Mr P having any say in the matter, at a 
time when he was struggling financially due to the Covid-19 pandemic. So, he thought PSA 
should pay Mr P £250 to recognise the impact this had on Mr P, as well as removing any 
adverse information from his credit file.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he didnt use the cars during the first 
lockdown, as he had no work. So, he doesnt think its fair that hes had to pay an additional 
£720.02. Mr P also said that he didnt benefit from any additional servicing for the additional 
three-months he had the cars, so he think he should only pay for the road tax element of the 
service charge for this period. Mr P also provided details of his bank account in March 2020 
and has said that it wouldve been cheaper for him to make the scheduled payments from 
his overdraft than to have extended the agreements by three-months.
Because Mr P didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr P was supplied with two cars under hire 
agreements. These are regulated consumer credit agreements which means were able to 
look into complaints about them. 
The basic facts of this cases arent in dispute, and PSA have acknowledged that they 
couldve done better. Because of this, my decision will concentrate on what is a fair remedy 
given the facts and circumstances.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance, that came into effect on 
27 April 2020, about customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of 
Covid-19. This guidance says a firm providing motor finance agreements should grant a 
payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is 
obviously not in the customers interest to do so. And the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) 7.3.4 states that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with 
forbearance and due consideration.
But this guidance didnt apply to business agreements. So, while PSA provided Mr P with a 
payment deferral on both agreements, this wasnt something they were required to do.PSA didnt tell Mr P about the payment deferral by the method they told him they would  
email or phone  which meant that he missed seeing this documentation for almost a month. 
But, even if Mr P had signed onto the portal and seen the documentation, he wasnt given 
the opportunity to accept or reject the terms of the payment deferral before they were 
applied to his agreements.
So, Ive considered what Mr P would most likely have done had he had this opportunity. 
While Mr P had access to an overdraft which couldve been used to make the payments; 
when Mr P became aware of the terms of the payment deferral, he didnt challenge these 
terms and offer to make any missed payments (through his overdraft) at that point. So, 
because of this, I dont think it was likely he wouldve rejected the payment deferral had he 
been given the opportunity to do so. I think its more likely that, because of the uncertainty of 
the pandemic and government imposed lockdowns, Mr P wouldve kept his overdraft facility 
in case it was needed in the future.
Mr P has also said that the amount he paid PSA as a result of the payment deferral was 
more than it wouldve cost him had he used his overdraft initially. While I dont doubt this was 
the case, had he not taken the payment deferral then the cars wouldve needed to be 
returned three-months earlier than they actually were. And, as Mr P used these cars for his 
business, he wouldve needed to finance replacement cars three-months earlier.
Assuming that Mr P wouldve paid something similar to refinance replacement cars to what 
the original agreements cost him over the first three-months with initial and ongoing rental 
payments, and comparing this to what Mr P additionally paid as a result of the payment 
deferral and the extension of the agreements by three months; Mr P paid over £2,000 less 
than what he otherwise couldve done. So, I dont think he was financially disadvantaged by 
the payment deferral and the three-month extension to the agreements.
Mr P has also said that he didnt fully benefit from the service change for the three-month 
extension to the agreements. So, he only thinks that the road tax element of this should be 
paid. While the cars werent serviced during this period, its my understanding that the 
service charge also covered items such as the clutch, brake pads and discs, bulbs, wiper 
blades and tyres. And, while none of these items needed replacement, they were covered if 
any replacement was necessary. For the same reasons I wouldnt say that Mr P should be 
refunded his annual car insurance premiums if he didnt make a claim, I dont think the 
service charge should be refunded just because Mr P didnt need to claim against it  he 
was still provided with the cover he was paying for.
Putting things right
As I dont think that PSA acted reasonably with how they communicated with Mr P about the 
payment deferral, or by not giving him the opportunity to decline the amended terms of the 
agreements; Im in agreement with the investigator that PSA should compensate him for this.
For the reasons stated above, I dont think that Mr P should be refunded with the additional 
payments he made to the agreements, including the service charge. But he was impacted by 
PSA enforcing the changes to the agreement at a time when he was struggling financially as 
a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Because of this, Im satisfied that the £250 recommended 
by the investigator is reasonable in the circumstances and is in line with what I wouldve 
directed.
So, PSA should pay Mr P £250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by 
their actions. They should also remove any adverse information relating to the payment 
deferral from Mr Ps credit file. My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and PSA Finance UK Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman