DRN-3628626
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with the way BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera
Financial Services have treated her when a car she acquired under a hire purchase
agreement was involved in a car accident.
Miss H is represented in this complaint. But for ease, Ill refer to Miss H throughout my
decision.
What happened
In May 2019, Miss H entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a used car. The total
amount of credit was £11,938 and the agreement was for a duration of 48 months. Miss H
had paid a cash deposit of £300 and received £2,400 in part exchange for her old car. The
monthly repayments under this agreement were £176.02.
On 24 December 2020, Miss H says she there was an incident with her car where it slid on
ice and caused significant damage to the car. Miss Hs car was then taken to an impound by
the police. On the same day, the police told Alphera that the reason Miss Hs car was seized
was because it had been abandoned at the incident site.
Miss H says she has a disability and suffers from mental health. So, when Alphera asked
why she abandoned the car, she said she panicked and wanted to get home  Miss H left
the car because she wasnt sure what else to do. To release the car, Miss H says Alphera
asked her to provide proof of her disability. Miss H says she initially wasnt happy to provide
this, but then she did in order to get her car back. However, Alphera then lost this
information which she feels is a breach of her personal data. Miss H feels Alphera have
discriminated against her when asking for evidence of her disabilities.
Miss H then contacted Alphera to explain the incident had been reported to her insurer and
asked Alphera to contact them about collecting the car. From Alpheras contact notes, it 
seems they contacted Miss Hs insurer; however, they wouldnt discuss the matter with
them. On 31 December 2020, Alphera spoke to Miss H to confirm instructions would be sent
to release the car from the impound to the insurance company as theyd received evidence
of Miss Hs disability. Miss H says Alphera delayed the release of her car which then
resulted in her losing her job as she didnt have a car for work. When the insurers collected
and inspected the car, they deemed it beyond economical repair so a settlement quote for
the agreement was provided on 12 January 2021 to Miss H.
Miss H has also complained about the settlement figure Alphera provided her with as she
feels this is incorrect. Miss H says she initially asked for a settlement figure in August 2020.
And that she was told the settlement amount was £10,953.19. However, the settlement
amount Alphera provided on 12 January 2021 was different and that it was £10,924.09. Miss
H says she made payments towards the account between when the first settlement figure
was produced to the second. So, Miss H feels the payments she made during the first figure
being provided and the second, havent been taken into consideration when the settlement
amount was calculated. In relation to this, Alphera said Miss H was given a two-month
payment deferral due to Covid-19 in October 2020 and again in November 2020. And that
the settlement figure took into account the deferral period. Alphera confirmed since then,
Miss H paid the settlement amount of £10,097.53 and the agreement ended in January
2021.
Miss H has also complained about the customer service she received from Alphera. She
explained that she had to make several phone calls to Alphera but spent a long time trying to
successfully get through to someone, there were instances where the line cut off and that no
one called her back.
Alphera apologised for the poor customer service Miss H experienced. They explained that
due to Covid-19, they were very busy dealing with customers who had called them which
caused a strain on their phone lines leading to longer wait times to get through to someone.
Our Investigator looked into Miss Hs concerns. He said that from the available evidence,
Miss H had received an interest rebate which was in line with the Consumer Credit (Early
Settlement) Regulations 2004. So, he didnt think Alphera had calculated Miss Hs early
settlement incorrectly. Our Investigator also looked into what happened when Miss Hs car
was seized by the police and when it was then released. And he said he didnt think there
were any unreasonable delays caused by Alphera.
Lastly, our Investigator considered what Alphera said about asking Miss H for evidence of
her disability and didnt think they had a legitimate reason to ask for this as he didnt think
this impacted the decision to provide their authority to release Miss Hs car from the
impound. However, he said it wouldnt be for him to say whether Alphera breached the
Equality Act 2010 and discriminated against Miss H as this would be a matter for the courts.
Our Investigator also recognised the service Miss H received from Alphera and concluded
that it could have been better at times. So, for these reasons, our Investigator felt Alphera
should pay Miss H £150 compensation.
Miss H responded and was happy with the compensation amount recommended by our
Investigator. Alphera responded and said while they didnt disbelieve the reasons Miss H
gave for abandoning the car at the time, they needed evidence to support the disabilities she
said she suffered from. Alphera also said our Investigators view hadnt considered, nor
mentioned, the constraints they suffered due to Covid-19, so they didnt think it was fair that
our Investigator concluded the customer service could have been better at times. However,
Alphera said they were prepared to offer Miss H £75 for any stress and inconvenience
caused to her. But our Investigator remained of the opinion that £150 was fair compensation.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision setting out the below:
Delays in releasing the car
I understand Miss H was concerned about the length of time it took for her car to be released
from the impound.
Having looked at Alpheras notes, I can see they were first notified by the police that the car
had been seized on 24 December 2020. In this same email, the police advised Alphera that
the car wont be released unless Alphera directed them to do so.
Then on 29 December 2020, I can see from the notes that Alphera emailed Miss H to let her
know that they attempted to contact her but were unsuccessful. They asked Miss H to call
them on the telephone number they provided.
Miss Hs Mother (who was authorised to speak to Alphera on Miss Hs behalf) then called
Alphera on 30 December 2020 and explained that she was attempting to get Miss Hs carreleased from the impound. Alphera let Miss Hs Mother know that theyll find out more and
would call Miss H once they had more of an update. Alphera called Miss Hs car insurance
provider the same day and asked them to confirm if they were willing to collect Miss Hs car
from the impound.
The notes then show Alphera attempted to call Miss H on 30 December 2020 to let her know
that her insurance company werent prepared to discuss the matter with them. But Alphera
werent able to get through to Miss H and left her a voicemail. Miss Hs Mother called back
and Alphera explained to her that they needed evidence of Miss Hs disabilities. Once Miss
Hs Mother provided this on 31 December 2020, I can see that Alphera sent an email to the
police providing their authority for the car to be released and collected by Miss Hs car
insurance company only.
So, in summary, it took around a week for the car to be released once it had been seized
and taken to the impound. But Ive also considered the fact that this was happening over the
Christmas period and there were bank holidays which naturally would have caused some
delays. Having carefully thought about this, I dont think Alphera caused any unnecessary
delays. I say this because Alphera were attempting to liaise with Miss Hs car insurance
provider to find out the outcome of her claim and if repairs had been carried out on the car.
Alpheras notes also say that they needed confirmation as to why Miss H abandoned the car
at the time before they agree to releasing the car. Miss Hs Mother confirmed to Alphera that
Miss H suffered from a disability and mental health which she provided evidence of along
with confirmation of the claim with her insurance company for the repairs while she was on
the phone to Alphera on 31 December 2020. I can see on the same day, Alphera provided
their authority to the police to release Miss Hs car from the impound.
I appreciate Miss H says her car being kept at the impound impacted her job as she didnt
have the car. However, it seems from Alpheras notes that the car wasnt in a driveable
condition due to the damage caused. So, its likely Miss H wouldnt have been able to drive
the car even if she was able to retrieve it sooner.
Miss Hs concern about disability discrimination
Miss H says shes unhappy Alphera asked for proof of her disability before giving their
authority for the car to be released. So, Miss H feels she was treated differently because of
this.
Firstly, it might be helpful for me to set out that this service is unable to make findings on
whether or not something constitutes discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is
because we are an informal free alternative to the Courts. Only a court of law can make a
legal finding based on the definitions set out within the act. I know this will be frustrating for
Miss H but unfortunately because its outside this services remit, I am unable to provide her
with such an answer. However, I can consider whether or not Alphera have acted in a fair
and reasonable manner, and in order to do that I will take a number of things, including the
Equality Act 2010, into consideration.
Having looked at the information provided by Alphera, I can see they asked for evidence of
Miss Hs disability when her Mother let them know the reason Miss H abandoned the car.
Alphera say the reason they asked for this evidence was because Miss H said she
abandoned the car because she suffers from a disability and didnt know what to do.
Alphera said evidence of this disability was required in order to release the car from the
impound. Alphera also explained if they didnt ask for evidence, any of their customers can
call and say they are suffering from disabilities without providing evidence.
While I dont find it unreasonable for Alphera to find out why the car was abandoned at thetime, given the nature of the circumstances, I think Alphera ought to have provided Miss H
with an explanation as to why evidence of her disabilities was needed in order to release the
car from the impound. Alphera say they asked for this to provide Miss H with the correct
assistance. But then Alphera have said they needed the evidence so they could provide their
authority for the car to be released - so its unclear what assistance Alphera were looking to
provide Miss H with. In addition to this, its not clear to me exactly why evidence of Miss Hs
disability was required in order to give authority for the car to be released from the impound.
I note Alphera have said they attempted to contact Miss H on a number of occasions and
that there were discussions with their collections and recovery teams. Therefore, on balance,
Alphera say Miss H was likely provided with the reason why they required this evidence in
order for the car to be released. However, I cant see from the notes that the reason for the
evidence was provided to Miss H. Instead, its noted that evidence was required with no
further explanation.
In any event, as I mentioned earlier, I dont necessarily think it was unreasonable for Alphera
to understand in more detail the disabilities Miss H suffered from in order to consider any
reasonable adjustments to support Miss H. But given Miss Hs vulnerability, asking for this
evidence without a reasonable explanation why would have compounded the stress and
mental health issues Miss H was already suffering from. So, I think Alphera should pay Miss
H £150 compensation in recognition of this.
Miss H says when she sent the evidence in, Alphera lost the email so she says theres been
a breach of her personal information. I can see from Alpheras notes that two emails were
received on 31 December 2020. While I dont have a copy of these emails, the notes show
they were sent by Miss Hs Mother and one included a picture image which I think is likely to
be the medical evidence Alphera asked for. I say this because I can see this email was sent
while Miss Hs Mother was on the phone to Alphera when they asked for medical evidence.
The other email was from Miss Hs mother which was a picture image of the insurance claim
Miss H had made. I havent seen anything to persuade me the emails were lost and theres
no mention of potential lost information on Alpheras internal notes. Instead, I can see that
the emails were received.
Customer service
I note Miss H has said she made several attempts to contact Alphera in December 2020
about her car but wasnt able to get through to someone. Miss H says she spent several
hours on the phone and often the line cut out. I can see from the contact notes Alphera
provided us with that there were times when Miss H told Alphera shed been on hold for a
very long time, the call had previously cut out and that there were also times she was
struggling to get through to anyone before then successfully being able to speak to an
advisor.
I can understand Miss Hs frustrations, especially as she wanted to get her car back and she
needed Alpheras help in order to do this. However, Covid-19 was unprecedented and a lot
of businesses like Alphera, were dealing with an increase in demand from customers who
had been impacted by Covid-19. As Alphera explained, the service they were able to provide
to customers was impacted due to the national lockdown and I dont find this to be
unreasonable. So, while I appreciate it was frustrating that Miss H was kept on hold for long
periods of time, I think this was impacted by factors outside of Alpheras control.
Settlement figure
I note Miss H feels the settlement figure she was provided with was incorrect. Miss H says
Alphera have overcharged her interest, so she says the settlement amount should be less.As our Investigator explained, an early settlement figure is based on the total amount
payable, less any payments already made. Miss H had a two-month payment deferral due to
Covid-19 in October 2020 and again in November 2020. Ive looked at the payment history
of the agreement and I can see these were taken into account when recalculating Miss Hs
monthly repayments after the deferral period had ended. Its not clear from the evidence Ive
been provided that Miss H was given the two different settlement amounts as shes
suggested. But nonetheless, I have taken a look at the payment history and theres nothing
to suggest Miss H paid more than she should have. Therefore, I think the settlement figure of
£10,097.53 Miss H paid in the end to settle the agreement with was correct.
Putting things right
As explained, I dont think Alphera provided Miss H with a clear explanation as to exactly
why they needed to see evidence of her medical conditions in order to provide their authority
for the car to be released from the impound. And I think the lack of explanation has
understandably caused Miss H distress  especially at a time where she was already
suffering from mental health conditions. I can appreciate Miss H felt concerned by this
request from Alphera, without a true understanding as to why this was needed. For these
reasons, I currently think Alphera should pay Miss H £150 compensation.
Alphera didnt respond to my provisional decision. But Miss H did and said she accepted my 
findings. Miss H also commented that she feels Alphera have delayed things by not agreeing 
to the recommendation made previously by our Investigator for Alphera to put things right for 
her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss H is frustrated that Alphera didnt agree to our Investigators opinion. 
But we do have a two-stage process here at the service, and either party are able to refer 
the complaint for an Ombudsmans review if they disagree with the Investigators view  
which is what Alphera did here.
Lastly, despite numerous attempts to better understand Alpheras reasoning for requesting 
evidence of Miss Hs disabilities, its still unclear to me for what reason Alphera were 
specifically required to have this evidence in order to give their authority for the car to be 
released from the impound. So, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
Putting things right
For the same reasons as explained in my provisional decision, I require Alphera to pay Miss 
H £150 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. And I require BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services to pay Miss H £150 compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoyOmbudsman