DRN-2597669
The complaint
Mr T complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc and their involvement in his Help to Buy ISA 
(HTB ISA) which led to the government refusing to pay him the bonus amount.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr T switched his current account to HSBC using the Current Account 
Switching Service (CASS). As part of this switch, Mr T assumed the HTB ISA he held with 
another lender would also need to move across.
In February, Mr T applied for an HTB ISA with HSBC. He continued to make deposits into 
this HTB ISA until he purchased a property in mid-2020. At this point, he contacted HSBC 
and asked them to close the account.
But when Mr Ts solicitors applied for the bonus payment associated with the HTB ISA, they 
were turned down. They were told by the government that Mr T wasnt eligible for the bonus 
as he held more than one HTB ISA. Mr T felt HSBC were responsible for this error, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr T thought HSBC shouldve done more to check whether he had another HTB ISA before 
allowing him to open another. He felt because of this, hed been refused the bonus which he 
was relying upon to make modifications to his new property. So, he wanted HSBC to 
compensate him equivalent to the bonus he wouldve received if hed remained eligible on 
the HTB ISA scheme.
HSBC didnt agree. They explained Mr T has signed a declaration when he opened his HTB 
ISA with them which agreed he didnt hold any other HTB ISA accounts. They thought it was 
reasonable for them to assume this was the case from this information. So, they didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong and because of this, they didnt offer anything more. Mr T 
remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised the impact the 
complaint had on Mr T and his finances when purchasing his first property. But he didnt 
think it was HSBCs decision to refuse the bonus. Nor did he think this refusal was because 
of anything HSBC did wrong. He explained he thought HSBC had made reasonable checks 
regarding any other HTB ISAs by asking Mr T to sign a declaration confirming this. He 
explained there was no database created that would allow HSBC to look into this any further. 
So, he didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. And because of this, he didnt think it 
would be fair to ask them to do anything more. 
Mr T didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair for the bonus to be refused due to a technicality 
which he was unaware of. He explained both he and his partner needed the bonus to help 
pay for modifications that would make the property accessible to a family member. And 
without this, they were unable to do so. As Mr T didnt agree, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr T. Ive no doubt Mr T 
wasnt openly aware he could only have one open HTB ISA to qualify for the bonus. And I 
can appreciate he planned on having this amount available to help him renovate the property 
he purchased. So, when he found out the bonus wouldnt be paid, I can understand why this 
would be both upsetting and frustrating. But this decision focuses solely on the actions of 
and service provided by HSBC through that process. So, for me to say they should cover the 
cost of the refused bonus payment, Id need to be satisfied it was solely their error that led to 
the bonus being refused. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Mr T feels HSBC are the cause of the bonus being refused as they failed to make 
reasonable checks to ensure he had no other open HTB ISAs. He felt it was HSBCs 
responsibility to ensure he satisfied the terms of the scheme when he was opening the 
account. But HSBC have explained Mr T signed a declaration which made him aware he 
could only have one open HTB ISA to qualify for the scheme. So, Ive considered both 
arguments to decide whether I think HSBC acted fairly.
Ive seen the declaration Mr T signed when he opened the HTB ISA. This listed several 
terms Mr T had to satisfy in order to be eligible for the ISA and the bonus. Within this, it 
stated I understand that I can only hold one HTB ISA at any one time. In order to open the 
HTB ISA with HSBC, Mr T had to sign and agree to the declaration. And by doing so, I think 
he was confirming to HSBC that he had no other HTB ISA. 
I understand that Mr T thinks HSBC shouldve done more to confirm this was the case. But I 
dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to rely on the information they were provided by Mr 
T as true. And even if this wasnt the case, there isnt a central database available for HSBC 
to monitor and check the savings accounts and ISAs Mr T held. So, I dont think HSBC had 
any reasonable way of completing any further checks. Because of this, I dont think it would 
be fair for me to say HSBC did anything wrong when allowing Mr T to open an HTB ISA with 
them. And because of this, I dont think they need to do anything further.
Thats not to say I dont understand Mr Ts frustration with the situation. From what Ive seen, 
I think Mr T opened an HTB ISA with HSBC in good faith, under the impression hed be 
eligible for the bonus when he came to close the account. I dont think Mr T was reasonably 
aware that holding open HTB ISAs elsewhere, even though they were dormant, would 
impact this. But I think its important to explain that it wasnt HSBCs decision to refuse the 
bonus. This was made by the government as part of the scheme itself.
HSBCs role was limited to the providing of the account and its services that allowed Mr T to 
make deposits within it. And from what Ive seen, Mr T made use of this service. And as I 
explained above, I think HSBC made fair and proportionate checks into whether Mr T had 
other HTB ISAs by asking him to sign a declaration which confirmed he didnt. So, while I 
understand the situation Mr T now finds himself in financially without access to the bonus 
payment he expected, I dont think this is the fault of actions HSBC took, or failed to take.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about HSBC Bank UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman