DRN-3592371
The complaint
Mr L complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to put his annuity into payment 
in a timely manner. And he complains that he has little confidence that the manual 
calculations performed by Aviva at the time have resulted in him receiving a correct annuity 
amount.
What happened
Mr L held pension savings with Aviva. His policy provided him with a guaranteed pension 
amount at retirement, that would be supplemented by the addition of bonusses at Avivas 
discretion. Each year Mr L was sent a statement showing the guaranteed pension he might 
expect to receive at retirement.
Mr L turned 75 in February 2021. Aviva wrote to Mr L in the lead up to his birthday to explain 
that he would need to take his pension benefits as the plan couldnt continue past that time. 
But it did explain that, if he didnt wish to take an immediate annuity, Mr L could transfer his 
pension benefits to another pension plan, either with Aviva or another provider.
Mr L decided that he would take an annuity from his pension plan  he would have needed 
to take independent financial advice if he had decided to give up the guaranteed benefits. 
But reaching the point he made that decision was not as straightforward as it might have 
been. Mr L had separately received a request for personal information from Aviva that he 
wanted to ensure was genuine before completing. And it appears Mr L needed to make a 
number of requests for quotations to be issued before any were received.
The transfer value for his pension benefits that Mr L received at that time was substantially 
less than a valuation that had been provided in 2016. So Mr L asked Aviva to investigate the 
discrepancy. But Aviva told him that it would still progress his request for quotations at the 
same time. The quotations were finally sent to Mr L on 27 April 2021. Mr L signed his 
acceptance of the quotation on the following day, and Aviva shows it received those forms 
on 29 April.
But Mr L needed to chase the payment of his annuity on several more occasions. It wasnt 
until 14 June that Aviva confirmed to Mr L that his annuity had been set up and his pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash) had been paid. But, 
given the processing delays, Aviva backdated the start of Mr Ls annuity to his 75th birthday 
in February 2021. And it paid him £250 to reflect the inconvenience hed been caused. But 
Mr L remained concerned whether the annuity had been calculated correctly so brought his 
complaint to this Service.
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that Aviva had 
acted fairly in backdating the start of the annuity, and in the compensation it had paid for the 
inconvenience Mr L had been caused. But he thought that Aviva had also delayed the 
payment of the PCLS to Mr L, and so should pay some interest on that as well. And he 
asked Aviva to set out clearly for Mr L how it had calculated his annuity  if that showed a 
mistake he asked Aviva to correct the annuity that was being paid to Mr L.
Disappointingly, despite its assurances, Aviva has failed to respond to that assessment. So, 
as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr L accepts my decision it is legally 
binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr L and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Aviva has provided us with a detailed timeline of what it thinks happened during the time that 
Mr L was looking to put his pension savings into payment. And that timeline appears to 
broadly match Mr Ls thoughts about where the delays occurred. So I think there is little 
dispute about the various delays, but I have summarised below where I think some of the 
problems occurred. 
As I will go onto to explain in more detail later in this decision, Mr Ls pension benefits arose 
from an older style pension plan. They offered him a valuable guarantee in terms of the 
amount of pension he would receive. But Aviva doesnt appear to have had an automated 
method of calculating the annuity it would offer to Mr L. So at each stage of the process it 
seems that Aviva needed to undertake some manual calculations to determine the pension it 
would offer to Mr L. Performing those calculations naturally introduced some delays into the 
application process.
It seems there was also a delay towards the start of the process when Mr L was asked to 
provide Aviva with some personal information to help check his pension entitlement. The 
nature of that request, quite understandably given the warnings we all now face about 
fraudsters gathering information, led Mr L to question the request with Aviva. And I have 
noted that even the Aviva member of staff that he spoke to didnt give him an unequivocable 
confirmation of the validity of the request. The notes Aviva recorded at the time simply said 
I called through to the number on the letter and spoke with them and they gave me details 
of the Aviva website where [Mr L] can check the legitimacy of this, I feel that it is a genuine 
letter.
I think it is clear that, at the start of the process, that Mr L was unsure whether to take his 
pension benefits using the guaranteed pension amount, or transfer those benefits to a 
drawdown arrangement. It seems it was a little while into the process before he decided that 
he would take an annuity from Aviva. And doing so meant that Mr L would not be required to 
take an independent financial advice.So I think there was a period of time where it was reasonable for a short delay to have 
occurred before Aviva was able to issue the vesting quotations to Mr L. I think that it was 
reasonable, given what I have said above, that the quotations were issued to Mr L on 
28 April 2021. And I can see that Mr L accepted those quotations, and returned his signed 
paperwork, the following day.
Generally I would expect that a firm such as Aviva would complete its processing of that sort 
of request within a period of ten working days. Mr L was accepting a quotation that it had 
already provided. So I think Mr L should have expected his pension to be put into payment, 
and his PCLS to be received (allowing for the banking transfer) by 19 May.
As I have said earlier, Aviva has backdated Mr Ls annuity payments to his 75th birthday. So 
it has effectively removed any financial impact on those payments from the delays in setting 
up the annuity. But the PCLS wasnt received by Mr L until almost a month later that it 
should have been. So Mr L was deprived of the use of those funds, and Aviva should pay 
him some compensation for that time. I make a direction to that effect below.
As I said earlier, the calculation of Mr Ls pension benefits was complex. And those 
complexities were increased by the need to provide Mr L with an equivalent transfer value. 
Mr Ls pension benefits were expressed in terms of a guaranteed pension  but Aviva also 
undertook some further calculations to derive a transfer value that fairly represented those 
pension savings.
Mr L has said that, in 2016, the transfer value he was quoted was approximately £10,000 
higher than that he was offered in 2021. And he says that he had also made around £6,000 
of additional contributions during that time. So he is understandably concerned about 
whether the quotations he received in 2021 were correct.
I dont think Aviva has done enough to reassure Mr L (or me) about the accuracy of the 
quotations it used in 2021 when it determined his retirement benefits. I am aware that Aviva 
faced some systems problems around 2016 when it was calculating the equivalent transfer 
values of guaranteed pension benefits. And, in one of its responses to Mr Ls complaint, 
Aviva has made passing mention of those problems. But I think Aviva needs to provide Mr L 
with some easily understood calculations showing both the derivation of his pension benefits 
in 2021, and how they have changed over the years. It might be appropriate for Aviva to 
restate some of the incorrect information it has previously provided so that Mr L can see the 
actual changes to his pension benefits over the years, once any incorrect historical 
calculations have been amended.
Given that the basis of Mr Ls pension entitlement was the guaranteed pension accrual and 
my understanding is that the historic errors were on the restatement of those benefits in the 
form of a cash equivalent transfer amount, I think it most likely that the pension Mr L is now 
receiving is correct. But Aviva should provide Mr L with simple understandable explanations 
of those calculations to reassure him of their accuracy. 
So in summary, I think that the redress Aviva has already provided in respect of the delays 
to the start of Mr Ls annuity is reasonable. But I think it needs to do more in respect of the 
delays to the payment of the PCLS. Aviva needs to check the calculations of the pension 
benefits available to Mr L and provide him with a clear explanation of that assessment.Putting things right
For the reasons I have explained above, Aviva needs to take the following additional actions;
Calculate and pay to Mr L interest at a rate of 8% simple on the PCLS he received. 
Interest should be paid from 19 May 2021 to the date that the PCLS was actually 
received by Mr L.
Within six weeks of the date of this final decision provide Mr L with a clear, and easily 
understood, calculation of the pension benefits he was entitled to receive at 
retirement. This calculation should, if necessary, provide corrected historical 
information in relation to those benefits and the equivalent cash transfer value they 
attracted.
Should these calculations identify that any of Mr Ls pension benefits have been 
underpaid, appropriate compensation should be provided to Mr L;
oUnderpaid annuity income should be paid, together with simple interest at a 
rate of 8% from the date the payment was due, to the date of the 
compensation.
oAny additional PCLS income should also be paid with interest as set out 
above.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Aviva to take off tax from any interest. Aviva must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman