DRN-4237076
The complaint
Miss K complains that One Sure Insurance Limited mishandled her motor trade insurance 
policy. 
What happened
In early 2022, Miss K had 5 years no-claims discount (NCD) on a private car policy. She 
contacted One Sure (an insurance intermediary). They discussed a motor trade policy for the 
year from early February 2022. Miss K asked if she would have 1 years or 5 years NCD on 
such a policy in February 2023. One Sure said it would be 6 years NCD (provided of course 
that she had made no claims).
Miss K took out a motor trade policy through One Sure with an insurer.
In mid-January 2023, One Sure quoted Miss K a price to renew the policy. But she found a 
lower price with another provider. She asked One Sure to provide evidence of her NCD. One 
Sure said she had 1 years NCD.
Miss K complained to One Sure that it should be 6 years NCD. 
By a final response dated early February 2023, One Sure turned down the complaint. It told 
Miss K that the insurer had given her an introductory discount in February 2022.
Miss K brought her complaint to us in mid-February 2023. She said that the new insurer had 
asked for an additional premium of about £2,500.00 for the difference between 6 years and 
1 years NCD.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. The investigator  
thought that the advice given during the sales call had impacted Miss K in early 2023. The 
investigator recommended that One Sure should compensate £200.00 for the error.
One Sure disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that this award in this circumstance is too high.
Miss K also asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the call recording evidence, I find that when it sold the policy, One Sure gave Miss K 
incorrect information about the number of years NCD she would have (provided of course 
she had made no claims) for the year from February 2023 and subsequent years. I dont 
condone that.
However, the policy gave Miss K the cover she wanted from February 2022. So I dont 
consider that One Sure mis-sold the policy. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
One Sure to refund the premium in whole or in part.
I can see why Miss K wanted One Sure to provide evidence that she had 6 years NCD in 
February 2023. But One Sure was only an intermediary rather than the insurer. And Miss K 
had only had a motor trade policy for 1 year. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
One Sure to provide evidence that she had 6 years NCD.
I havent seen enough evidence of what questions Miss Ks new insurer asked her in early 
2023. So I dont hold One Sure responsible for her answers or for the new insurers 
additional premium.
I consider that One Sures incorrect information in 2022 caused Miss K distress and 
inconvenience and disappointment when she found out in 2023. Miss K spent time on 
contacting One Sure. One Sure didnt offer any way of putting things right.
But I havent upheld Miss Ks complaint that it should refund the premium or provide 
evidence of 6 years NCD. 
Putting things right
Weighing all this up, I conclude that it is fair and reasonable to direct One Sure to pay Miss K 
 in line with our published approach - £200.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct One Sure Insurance Limited to pay Miss K £200.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman