DRN-3989207
The complaint
Miss K complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Miss K says that she saw an advert on a social media site offering investment opportunities. 
Various packages were offered in the advert, which said that all first-time investors were 
guaranteed to get their initial investment back. The bronze package usually required a 
minimum investment of £600 but was reduced to £400 as part of an end of year deal. The 
advert said that an investment of £400 would see an average return of £2,000 to £5,000 
within four hours. The person who posted the investment opportunity claimed to be a 
freelance trader who worked for an FCA registered trading company that invests for people 
who want to make a high return in a short period of time. Commission of 20% would be 
charged.   
Miss K was saving to get a mortgage and for her wedding and decided to invest £400 on 31 
December 2021. After making the payment Miss K was asked to pay additional fees and 
taxes to release her funds and was told that if she didnt the investment would be terminated, 
and Miss K would lose all her funds. Miss K made the following payments:
Date Amount Payee
31/12/21 £400 1
31/12/21 £1,200 1
01/01/22 £1,175 2
01/01/22 £1,000 2
01/01/22 £1,000 2
Total £4,775
Miss K became concerned when she was asked for more funds and contacted Metro to ask 
it to recall her funds. Metro explained that the funds had left Miss Ks account and set up a 
scam claim. After considering Miss Ks complaint under the CRM Code Metro didnt agree to 
refund her. It said it provided her with a warning and that Miss K didnt take reasonable steps 
to ensure the payment was genuine. Metro contacted the receiving banks but no funds 
remained to return to Miss K.  
Miss K was unhappy with this response and brought a complaint to our service. She thinks 
Metro didnt act quickly enough to recover her funds and failed to protect her. Miss K says 
the scam has had a severe impact on her and her health.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
that Metro acted reasonably in relying on an exception to reimbursement in the CRM Code. 
This was because Miss K didnt complete any checks, communication was via social media, 
the rate of return was unrealistic, there was no application process and Miss K paid two 
different individuals rather than a company. The investigator also said that Metro couldnt 
reasonably have prevented the scam from taking place and did what it could to recover Miss 
Ks funds. 
Miss K didnt agree with the investigators findings. She accepted that she could have done 
more to ensure the investment was genuine. But Miss K said that relationships in her family 
were difficult and there were a lot of arguments. The money she lost had been lent to her by 
family members to enable her to move out. Miss K also said that at the time of the scam she 
was struggling with her mental health. Miss K said shed provide a letter from her general 
practitioner (GP). This service has subsequently received evidence from Dr A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Metro 
should have reimbursed Miss K under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought 
to have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Was Miss K vulnerable as defined in the CRM Code? 
Miss K has said that at the time she made the payments she was struggling with her mental 
health and wasnt in the right frame of mind. Ive thought very carefully about whether Miss K 
met the CRM Code definition of vulnerable at the time she made the payments. Whilst I have 
a lot of sympathy for Miss K, Ive decided that she wasnt vulnerable as set out in the CRM 
Code. 
The CRM Code says that someone is vulnerable  and so should receive a full refund of the 
amount lost in an APP scam if, it would not be reasonable to expect that Customer to have 
protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, against that particular 
APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered.
Miss K has provided evidence from Dr A. But Dr A isnt Miss Ks registered GP and didnt 
see her privately, so I think its fair to say he provided his opinion in a personal capacity. I 
have no way of knowing the relationship between Miss K and Dr A or of being satisfied Dr 
As opinion is impartial. There are also some concerning inconsistencies in the evidence 
provided by Dr A. Overall, Im not satisfied I can reasonably conclude from Dr As evidence 
that Miss K was vulnerable to the extent she was unable to protect herself from the scam 
she fell victim to. 
Whilst I appreciate that a difficult family situation and a degree of anxiety about it would have 
an effect on Miss K, Im not persuaded these factors mean Miss K met the definition in the 
code. The scam took place over a two-day period, so I think there was time for Miss K to 
stop and reflect on what the scammer told her. 
Can Metro fairly rely on any exceptions to reimbursement?
Theres no dispute here that Miss K was tricked into making the payments. But this isnt 
enough for Miss K to receive a refund of the money she lost. Under the CRM Code, a bank 
may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Miss 
K and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Metro has raised about the legitimacy 
of the transactions Miss K made are enough to support its position that it may rely on an 
exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code for the payments she made. I dont think 
she had a reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine services or that the 
person she transacted with was legitimate and will explain why. I should also say that its the 
combination of these factors that lead me to believe Miss K didnt have a reasonable basis 
for belief and that none of them can be considered alone. 
- Miss K saw an advert on social media which is not an investment platform. 
- The investment Miss K was offered did not sound genuine and the rate of return she 
was offered and the timescale to receive it were too good to be true. Initially Miss K 
was advised of a guaranteed return on her initial investment. The average rates of 
return were between 500% and 1,250% in just four hours. 
This rate of return and timescale was totally unrealistic and so unlikely that Miss K 
ought reasonably to have had significant concern about the legitimacy of the 
opportunity. That, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on her 
part. 
- The scammer claimed to represent an FCA registered trading company but didnt 
give a company name and Miss K didnt ask for any details of the company to ensure 
that what the scammer told her was true. 
- The language used by the scammer wasnt professional and wasnt what Id expect 
of a genuine trader. She used words like sis and hun in her messages. I think that 
the nature of the messages, in combination with the other factors, ought reasonably 
to have led Miss K to have concerns. 
- Miss K paid two different individual payees. If Miss K was investing through a 
genuine company, Id expect the funds to go to a company account and not to two 
different individuals. I dont consider the explanation Miss K was given by the 
scammer (that the first account had too much traffic through it) was persuasive and I 
dont consider it ought reasonably to have reassured Miss K.  
- Miss K didnt complete any research before deciding to go ahead and invest. 
Particularly given the other red flags in this case, I consider Miss K should have 
taken some time to complete some basic checks to satisfy herself she wasnt at risk 
of being scammed.
- Its clear from the messages Miss K has shared that as she was asked to transfer 
more funds, she had doubts but she still went ahead.
Should Metro have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss K? 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised push payment scam risks in a 
payment journey, they should take reasonable steps to provide effective warnings (as set out 
in the CRM Code) to their customers. The CRM Code also says that the assessment of 
whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of whether 
compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam. 
Im also mindful that when Miss K made these payments, Metro should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered whether the 
payments Miss K made were unusual or suspicious. But I dont consider the payments Miss 
K made were so unusual or out of character that Metro should have intervened and asked 
her about them. Although I recognise the loss has had a significant impact on Miss K, the 
amount of each payment was relatively small and didnt clear Miss Ks balance. Theres a 
balance to be struck. Banks have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction as 
to do so would cause significant disruption to genuine payments.
On balance, Im satisfied that the steps Metro took in providing scam advice when Miss K 
made the payments went far enough. 
Did Metro do enough to recover Miss Ks funds?
Ive also considered Metros actions once it was made aware of the scam. Metro has an 
obligation to contact a bank that received scam funds promptly in an effort to recover those 
funds. Ive seen evidence from both of the receiving banks that demonstrates Miss Ks funds 
left the accounts before Miss K reported the scam meaning that no funds were left to 
recover. So Im satisfied Metro has done what Id expect to try to recover Miss Ks funds. 
I consider Miss K wasnt vulnerable as defined by the CRM Code and didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing she was making payments for a genuine service and/or the 
agent she communicated with was a legitimate trader. Im sorry to have to disappoint Miss K, 
but I cant fairly say Metro should have done more or that it should refund the money that 
she lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman