DRN-2932417
The complaint
Mr S complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) acted without 
care when it threatened to cancel his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S took out a policy through AA. It then wrote to him cancelling the policy as it said the 
insurer had found an undisclosed fault claim placed by a previous insurer on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. Mr S thought AA should have made checks before 
sending its letter. But AA said it was for Mr S to contact his previous insurer. 
Mr S contacted his previous insurer and the claim was amended to for notification only. 
The policy then continued. Mr S was unhappy that AA hadnt made checks before notifying 
him that it was cancelling his policy. He was also unhappy with the tone of its letter to him. 
AA waived the premium increase due to the undisclosed incident as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was 
the responsibility of the previous insurer to correctly record the entry it made on the CUE 
database. He thought AA was entitled to rely on the information on the database and wasnt 
required to check it was accurate. He thought its letters to Mr S were direct and factual. And 
he thought it had reasonably agreed to consider Mr Ss suggestions for improvement. 
Mr S replied that he thought AA wouldnt have threatened cancellation if the incident had 
been correctly recorded. He asked that AA make two changes to its process: asking 
consumers about undeclared incidents before threatening cancellation; and, advising 
consumers to contact previous insurers if CUE database entries were inaccurate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says that he has raised his concerns as he wants AA to change its practices. Mr S said 
he found AAs letter to him threatening and aggressive. He thought it should have provided 
helpful information. And he thought it could have asked him about the undisclosed fault claim 
before sending him the letter. 
I can appreciate his concerns. But were not the regulator. Thats the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority. And a businesss policies and procedures are not something that this 
service would normally interfere with as they are a legitimate exercise of its commercial 
judgement. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the business acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that when Mr S took out his policy he was asked to disclose any losses or 
accidents, regardless of blame or making a claim, within the previous five years. Mr S didnt 
disclose any incidents. But he had been the victim of vandalism in the previous year. And I 
think it was for Mr S to disclose this incident. 
I think its common practice for insurers to check the CUE database when new policies are 
taken out. AA found the undisclosed, albeit incorrectly recorded, claim. And I think AA could 
reasonably rely on the accuracy of the information on the CUE database. Mr S thought AA 
should then have contacted him to clarify the issue. But thats not AAs business practice 
and its not something for me to interfere with. 
AA then wrote to Mr S telling him that, due to the claim, his insurer could no longer provide 
cover. It said the policy would cancel in seven days. And AA offered Mr S an alternative 
policy. 
AA says that the letter is its standard template. And so Im satisfied that it has treated Mr S 
the same as any other customer. Mr S was unhappy with the tone of the letter. But I think it 
is factual and has due regard to the serious implications for Mr S if he didnt have cover. I 
think its very similar to other letters Ive seen sent by other businesses. And so I think its not 
unusual and falls within standard industry practice. 
I can understand that Mr S thought more helpful information could have been included in the 
letter. But, as Ive said above, I think AA could rely on the accuracy of the information on the 
CUE database. The letter did invite Mr S to contact it by phone if he had any queries. And I 
can see that Mr S did this immediately and the situation was resolved. AA said it would 
feedback Mr Ss comments about its letter. So I think it acknowledged his concerns. And so I 
cant say that AA has treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably.
AA also waived an increase in premium due to the insurer rerating the policy with the 
incident added. Mr S queries this, but any incident can lead to an increase in premium. I 
think AAs gesture of goodwill was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr S was concerned that he would have to declare a cancelled policy to future insurers. But I 
can see that the insurer did not cancel Mr Ss policy. AA sent him a notification of 
cancellation, but the matter was then cleared up when Mr S contacted his previous insurer 
and the policy continued. AA has stressed that at no point was Mr S not insured. So there is 
no cancellation for him to declare in the future.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman