DRN-4475069
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with what Aviva Insurance Limited did after he made claims on his legal
expenses insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr B contacted Aviva as he wanted assistance with a claim against a
healthcare provider. Aviva asked one of its panel solicitors to consider the matter and they
advised the claim wouldnt have reasonable prospects of success (as required by the policy).
Mr B said that assessment was factually wrong and not properly reasoned. Aviva agreed to
seek an assessment from a different panel firm. However, one didnt have the expertise to
assist and the other said there had been a previous relationship breakdown with Mr B so
couldnt help either.
Mr B submitted further (though linked) claims against other healthcare providers. And he
discussed next steps with Aviva. He asked it to confirm it would pay for an assessment from
his own solicitors. Aviva confirmed Mr B could use his own solicitors and it would provide
cover for his claim if their assessment was positive but wouldnt pay for this. There was then
further discussion over whether the panel firm which had declined to act would do so. They
confirmed in January 2023 they werent prepared to do so.
Aviva reviewed matters and agreed in the circumstances to obtain and pay for a counsels
opinion on the claims prospects of success. After reviewing matters counsel asked for a
video conference with Mr B; attempts were made to arrange that but they were unsuccessful
and counsel wasnt prepared to proceed without one. Mr B raised concerns about whether
counsel had the right level of expertise to deal with his claim and subsequently made a
complaint about him.
As a result that counsel was no longer prepared to act and Aviva agreed to appoint an
alternative counsel. Their advice was provided at the end of April 2023. Counsel concluded
the claims Mr B wanted to pursue didnt have reasonable prospects of success. Aviva
shared redacted versions of that advice with Mr B but said it wouldnt disclose the name of
the counsel whod provided it. It declined to provide funding for Mr Bs claims.
Our investigator recognised Mr B strongly disagreed with the advice counsel had provided.
But she thought Aviva had gone beyond what we would expect in agreeing funding for this.
And she thought it was entitled to rely on the opinion which had now been provided when
declining to fund Mr Bs claims. If he wanted to challenge those opinions hed need to obtain
a contrary view from a different counsel.
Mr B didnt agree. He said his contract with Aviva said his claim would be handled by a firm
with extensive experience in the relevant area of law. But in this case the advice had been
provided on a covert basis which didnt give him the ability to properly challenge it or pursue
a professional negligence claim against the counsel whod provided it. He didnt think it was
fair of counsel to have provided their opinion without discussing matters with him and it was
unfair their identity had been hidden. And he queried how the difference of view would be
resolved if he did obtain a positive opinion of his own.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint earlier this month. I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy. This says If your claim is
accepted we will provide you with a lawyer who specialises in the law relating to your claim.
You do not have to find your own lawyer. And it says claims will be funded if it is more likely
than not you will recover damages or obtain any other legal remedy which we have agreed
to But if in the lawyers opinion the prospects of success are no longer in your favour then
Aviva will not pay any further costs and expenses. The policy defines lawyer as a suitably
experienced legal professional.
As an insurer isnt a legal expert we dont think its in a position to carry out the prospects
assessment and it should be carried out by a suitably qualified lawyer who has relevant
experience. Where that has been done we think its reasonable for an insurer to rely on a
properly written and reasoned legal opinion when deciding whether a claim has prospects of
success or not.
So in this case I think it was right Aviva referred the claim Mr B made in October 2022 to one
of its panel firms for an assessment of its prospects of success. I also think it was right to
conclude a further assessment needed to be carried out given the points Mr B raised about
the factual accuracy of the initial prospects assessment.
Its unfortunate the firms it then approached werent able to carry out that work and I
appreciate this caused some unavoidable delay in the claims progress. But I think it was
reasonable of Aviva to then agree Mr B could appoint his own solicitor. However, I think it
was wrong to say it wouldnt pay for them to provide a prospects assessment given the only
reason that needed to happen was because Aviva wasnt able to find a panel firm who could
carry this out (and the policy says it will provide a lawyer to do this).
However, I dont think thats an issue I need to consider further because Aviva appear to
have recognised that further action was required here which is what led it to instruct and pay
for a counsels opinion on the claims prospects of success. And, as thats a cost we wouldnt
normally expect an insurer to fund unless there were conflicting legal opinions from
solicitors, I agree Aviva has gone beyond what it needed to do here.
I appreciate it then took some time for the first counsel instructed to review matters. But I
dont think thats as a result of anything Aviva got wrong. And I can see it was proactive in
trying to organise the video conference that counsel thought was necessary in order to
progress the claim. I understand Mr B doesnt feel that counsel was qualified to advise on
the claim but I think Aviva acted reasonably in response to those concerns; it raised them
with counsel who confirmed he did have the necessary experience to deal with the matter.
And the fact he wasnt then able to advise on the claim was because Mr B made a complaint
about him and counsel didnt feel he was therefore able to continue. I think it was reasonable
of Aviva to then agree to the appointment of a further counsel to ensure the claims Mr B had
made were properly assessed.
Ive reviewed those opinions and I dont think they contain any factual errors that should
have been apparent to Aviva and are properly written and reasoned. I accept Mr B feels
counsel should have discussed matters with him prior to reaching that assessment but thats
a matter for their professional judgement; it isnt something Aviva is responsible for. And Im
aware of the identity of the counsel who carried out the assessment and Im satisfied theyhad the skills and experience to do so. As a result I think it was reasonable of Aviva to rely
on those assessments when declining to provide funding for Mr Bs claim.
I appreciate Mr B is concerned Aviva didnt disclose the identify of the counsel who
completed the assessments to him. However, that isnt something hes entitled to under the
terms of his policy. And, as Ive said, Im satisfied counsel did have the relevant skills and
experience to assess his claims. I can see Aviva did provide Mr B with some information
about the counsel who had carried out the assessment; I dont think it needed to provide
their specific name in order for him to be in a position to challenge that assessment if he
wanted to.
If Mr B does provide a contrary opinion from a barrister of his own it may be Aviva would
need to appoint another barrister who both sides would agree could produce a binding
opinion to resolve matters. But thats something which Aviva would need to consider if Mr B
does so and based on the circumstances at the time; my understanding is that he hasnt yet
done that so there isnt an issue here to consider at present.
I note Mr B is concerned he cant pursue a professional negligence claim against counsel
without their details. But giving him the ability to do that isnt something hes entitled to under
the terms of his policy. Aviva has explained why it didnt disclose this information to him and
I dont think it treated him unfairly by not doing so.
Mr B is also concerned delays by Aviva meant limitation for some of his claims had expired
by the time the prospects assessments were reached. I do think there was some avoidable
delay by Aviva here as it could have confirmed more quickly it would pay for Mr B to obtain a
solicitors opinion of his own. But I havent seen clear evidence to show Mr B would have
been able to find a solicitor to carry out the assessment if that had been done. And I think
some of the subsequent delay resulted from Mr Bs decision to complain about the counsel
carrying out the assessment which led him to withdraw and meant Aviva needed to appoint
an alternative counsel.
In any case this issue was considered by counsel who concluded limitation hadnt expired on
the claims Mr B wanted to bring (although in some cases it was likely to do so in the near
future). And if Mr B was concerned about this I think it was open to him to issue proceedings
to protect his position (as I can see he told Aviva hed done on another claim). Taking all of
that into account I dont think any delay by Aviva here has had a significant impact on the
progress of Mr Bs claims and I dont think theres anything it needs to do to put things right
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva said it agreed with my provisional decision and didnt have anything to add. Mr B didnt 
agree and made detailed comments in response. In summary he said:
The barristers instructed on the case were acting in the best interests of Aviva and were 
seeking to limit its costs. If Aviva had funded his own solicitor to do so theyd have been 
duty bound to act in his own interests. Instead, Aviva initially appointed a panel firm 
which didnt have the experience to deal with the matter. 
He thought hed been denied the freedom to choose his own solicitor. He didnt agree 
Aviva had done more than it needed to by agreeing to pay for counsels opinion and said 
the policy stated his claim would be handled by a firm of solicitors with extensive 
experience in the area of law relevant to this claim. He continued to feel the first counsel Aviva instructed didnt have the relevant skills and 
experience in relation to the Equality Act and drew attention to issues that had arisen 
while he was considering the claim.
He said it was unfair the name of the counsel who did then assess the claims prospects 
of success hadnt been disclosed and said this was against the principle of natural 
justice. And if the claim had been handled by solicitors he would have known the identify 
of the decision maker. 
He said because he didnt have the name he was unable to challenge the assessment 
through a complaint to the Legal Ombudsman or Bar Standards Board
And he said there was nothing in the policy that prevented him from pursuing a 
professional negligence claim against the barrister (as he believed Id suggested in my 
provisional decision).
He thought the delay in handling the claim had disadvantaged him as he did have a 
solicitor willing to assess the case but Aviva werent willing to pay their fees for doing so. 
And he disputed that subsequent delay resulted from his decision to complain about the 
counsel carrying out the assessment.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the comments Mr B has made about the motivations of the barristers appointed to 
consider whether his claims had reasonable prospects of success.  However, the solicitors 
and barristers involved with the case, whether appointed by Aviva or Mr B, would have been 
bound by their professional code of conduct which requires them to act in the best interests 
of their client. And, as Ive said, I think the assessment of the claims prospects of success 
the barrister produced is properly written and reasoned and I dont think there was any 
reason Aviva shouldnt have relied on it.
Mr B says he should have had the freedom to choose his own solicitor. He would have been 
entitled to do so from the point at which legal proceedings had become necessary (so from 
when negotiations had failed and formal legal action was required). But I dont think thats 
something which fairly applies unless cover was available under Mr Bs policy in the first 
place. And that wouldnt be the case unless it had been shown to have reasonable prospects 
of success. 
I appreciate there were difficulties in finding a panel firm to carry out a further assessment of 
that. And, as Mr B has said, the policy does say a claim will be handled by a firm of solicitors 
with extensive experience in the area of law relevant to this claim. But thats in a section of 
the policy in which Aviva outlines what the benefits of using a panel firm might be. I think that 
applies once a claim has been accepted because it says if legal representation is 
necessary. 
In any case the issue here is that Aviva wasnt able to find a panel firm to carry out a further 
prospects assessment so it needed to take action to ensure Mr B wasnt disadvantaged by 
that. I think agreeing to pay for a counsels opinion on the claims prospects of success was 
appropriate and, as I said in my provisional decision, thats a cost we wouldnt normally expect an insurer to fund unless there were conflicting legal opinions from solicitors. So I feel 
Aviva has gone beyond what it needed to do here.
Mr B had concerns about the expertise of the first counsel appointed but, as Ive said, I think 
Aviva took reasonable steps in response to the issues he raised about this. I think it was 
entitled to reply on the professional judgement of counsel that he did have the necessary 
skills and experience to assess the prospects of success of Mr Bs claim. And it isnt 
responsible for the interactions that counsel had with Mr B when doing so. 
I recognise Mr B remains unhappy the name of the counsel who did then assess his claims 
prospects of success wasnt disclosed to him. I appreciate if the claim had been assessed by 
solicitors he might have known the name of the person carrying it out. But as I set out in my 
provisional decision Aviva has explained its reasons for not providing the name of counsel 
and I think it had reasonable grounds in the circumstances of this case for that decision. 
If it hadnt disclosed any information about the assessment to Mr B then Id have concerns 
as to whether it had treated him fairly. But it has provided him with the assessment and has 
also given him information about the experience of the counsel who carried it out. His policy 
sets out the process for challenging a negative opinion on a claims prospects of success 
and I think Mr B had the information he needed to do so. I dont think the question of whether 
Mr B can pursue his own complaint against the counsel who provided the opinion on 
prospects is relevant to that. 
And whether the policy would cover Mr B to pursue a separate professional negligence claim 
isnt something I reached any view on. The point I made was that under the terms of his 
policy as they relate to these claims theres no requirement on Aviva to provide information 
about the name of counsel to him. 
Ive also considered Mr Bs comments about the impact of the delay by Aviva in handling the 
claim. Hes provided correspondence with a firm of solicitors who he says would have 
carried out the prospects assessment if Aviva agreed to them doing this. However, the focus 
of their emails is on a separate claim that Mr B had against a different organisation. 
I accept that firm might also have been prepared to assess the claims which form part of this 
complaint. However, even if they had done so its not clear to me the claim would have 
moved forward any more quickly. The firm made clear in correspondence with Mr B that it 
hadnt considered any of the documentation hed provided to date and wouldnt be doing so 
unless cover was confirmed. That process could only have started from January 2023 when 
the panel firm confirmed it wouldnt carry out the prospects assessment which was around 
the same time Aviva agreed to seek counsels opinion. 
And while Mr B disagrees, I do think that some of the delay in prospects then being 
assessed stemmed from his decision to complain about the counsel who was carrying out 
that assessment. In any event, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I dont 
think any delay resulted in Mr B losing out on the ability to bring these claims as it was open 
to him to protect his position in relation to this if he wanted to. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
James Park
Ombudsman