DRN-3459734
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a package bank account.
What happened
Theres limited information available from the time Mr C took out his Gold account. But from 
what Ive seen it appears that Mr C took out his Gold account between September and 
November 2002. I say this because November 2002 is the first record Lloyds holds of a fee 
being charged for the account.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Cs complaint about the sale of his Gold account but 
didnt think it should be upheld. As Mr C disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the Gold account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
Lloyds recommended the Gold account to Mr C, so it had to make sure the account was 
right for him.
Mr C has explained that when he was sold the account it was on the basis that it would give 
him a better overdraft facility. Mr C has also said he was told he had to upgrade his account 
if he wanted to retain it.
As I said above, theres limited information available from the time Mr C took his Gold 
account. But this isnt surprising considering how long ago the account was sold and that 
businesses arent required to keep this type of information indefinitely. 
I can see that at the time Mr C upgraded to the Gold account it offered a free £100 overdraft 
and potential preferential rates for overdrafts that exceeded this amount (subject to status 
and application). These benefits were not available on a non-fee-paying account. Mr C made 
use of the overdraft facility shortly after upgrading his account.
The Gold account also came with additional benefits which included reduced loan rates, 
commission free travel money, worldwide travel insurance, sentinel card protection, and 
extended warranty. 
The Gold account was Lloyds lowest level account that offered travel insurance at the time 
Mr C took his account and he has confirmed he travels 1-3 time per year within Europe. So, 
while Mr C says he didnt use the travel insurance offered by the account I think it could have 
been useful to him. 
Its not possible to know exactly what was said at the time the Gold account was sold to Mr 
C. But I think its likely these benefits were discussed with him and played into his decision to 
take the account. I think its unlikely a Lloyds representative told Mr C he had to upgrade his 
account in order to retain it, and to uphold his complaint for this reason I would need to see 
strong evidence that this was the information he was given at the time, and I havent seen 
this.
Mr C has stated that he did not receive the documentation he should have when the 
insurances renewed and was not aware, he was paying for optional insurances. But Mr C 
was paying for a package bank account. The account came with a range of benefits that 
were open to Mr C to use. Package bank accounts are not tailored to individuals and as 
such it is often the case that not all the benefits will be used by all customers that hold the 
same type of account. This does not mean the account was mis-sold.
Even if I accept that Mr C did not receive all the paperwork he should have, I still think he 
had a need for the benefits the Gold account offered and the recommendation Lloyds gave 
to Mr C to take the account was reasonable. So, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Gold 
account to Mr C. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman