DRN-3789822
The complaint
Mrs K complained because Nationwide Building Society blocked her laptop so she couldnt 
make payments using it. This followed Mrs Ks report to Nationwide that transactions which 
had been carried out on the laptop had been fraudulent.
What happened
On 10 June 2021, Mrs K rang Nationwide to say that she hadnt authorised multiple debits 
on her account. She identified about a dozen payments to various merchants as fraudulent. 
Nationwide refunded Mrs K for the £809.62 in dispute.  It stopped and replaced her card. It 
also blocked the devices on which the disputed payments had been made, to protect her 
account from any further unauthorised activity from those devices.
On 18 October, Mrs K rang Nationwide again, because shed been unable to make an online 
payment from her laptop. Nationwides fraud team told her that the reason she couldnt make 
the payment was that the device used had been blocked. That was because it was one of 
the devices which had been used for the disputed June transactions  for which Nationwide 
had refunded Mrs K. 
Mrs K was unhappy that the device had been blocked. But Nationwides fraud team told her 
that it would only remove the block, if Mrs K accepted that the June transactions which had 
used that device, hadnt after all been fraudulent, and would be re-debited. Mrs K 
complained.
In Nationwides final response letter, it said that it hadnt made any errors, either in initially 
applying a block, or when it refused to remove the block. It said that if Mrs K wanted 
Nationwide to remove the block, shed need to confirm that the transactions shed previously 
reported as fraudulent activity, were in fact genuine activity.
Mrs K wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. She thought it was reasonable for 
Nationwide to say it would only remove Mrs Ks laptop from the blocked list, if Mrs K 
accepted liability for the disputed payments that had been made using it.
Mrs K didnt agree. She said the disputed transactions, to a food merchant Ill call M, which 
had been carried out on her laptop had been done in the middle of other disputed 
transactions. Those other transactions hadnt been made using her laptop. She said she had 
no history of having ordered from M, and no-one else had access to her laptop at the time. 
She said she lived alone with her daughter. On the afternoon when there had been two 
payments to M, shed sent some emails from her laptop but hadnt had friends round to eat 
food theyd ordered from M.
Mrs K said she wanted to see proof from Nationwide that the transaction came from her 
laptop, not just her card, and she also wanted to know the address to which the disputed 
order from M had been delivered.
The investigator explained that, because of the time elapsed, the card firm no longer had 
evidence to show that Mrs Ks laptop had been used for the payments to M. But the laptop 
had been blocked in June 2021 as a result of Mrs Ks fraud claim. So she still didnt uphold 
Mrs Ks complaint.
Mrs K asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence Ive seen includes computer evidence that as a result of Mrs Ks call to 
Nationwide on 10 June 2021, Nationwide blocked a device which had been used for some of 
the transactions Mrs K had reported as fraudulent. The long identifier number for that device 
is the same as the device which Mrs K later tried to use for payments to genuine merchants. 
This tallies with Mrs K having complained because she couldnt make payments from her 
laptop.
What I dont have is detailed individual transaction evidence to show that the disputed 
payments to the food merchant M, were completed from Mrs Ks laptop. But thats not 
surprising when the transactions took place well over a year ago. Similarly, I think its most 
unlikely that merchant M would still have records of the address to which it delivered the 
disputed transaction goods in June 2021, which Mrs K has asked for.
It often happens that this service doesnt have all the evidence wed ideally like. When that 
happens, I take my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened, taking into 
account all the circumstances of the case. 
Here, what I have to decide is whether I think its likely that the reason Nationwide blocked 
Mrs Ks laptop in June 2021 was that some of the transactions she said she hadnt made, 
were from that device.
On balance, I consider that it is likely that Nationwide blocked Mrs Ks laptop because it had 
been the device used to make some of the disputed transactions. Thats because I think its 
likely that Nationwides systems would have picked up and blocked all devices linked to the 
disputed transactions. The identifiers are very long, with some 70 characters including 
numbers, letters, upper case and lower case. Its not something which would have been 
entered manually. It wasnt, for example, a short three or four digit number, and couldnt 
have been mis-typed by a computer operator, to a number which might been Mrs Ks 
number.  So I find that its more likely than not that the device on which the disputed 
transactions to merchant M were carried out, was Mrs Ks laptop. I recognise that Mrs K has 
said she didnt make the payments, but it would also count as authorised by her if she 
allowed someone else to make the payments on her device, providing them with access and 
her security details.
Ive then gone on to decide whether, in that situation, Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably 
when it refused to unblock Mrs Ks laptop, unless she accepted that she had indeed 
authorised the transactions to merchant M, which shed previously reported as unauthorised. 
I find that Nationwide did act fairly and reasonably when it took this decision. Nationwide has 
a responsibility for security of customers accounts. Any device which had been used for 
payments which a customer said were fraudulent, would be a potential security risk. So as 
Mrs K still maintained that she hadnt authorised the June 2021 payments, it wouldnt be 
right for Nationwide to unblock the device which had authorised those payments.So I find that Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably when it blocked the device used for the 
disputed payments, and when it refused to unblock that device when Mrs K still maintained 
that she hadnt authorised the payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman