DRN-2742110
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain that AWP Assistance UK Ltd trading as Allianz Global Assistance 
(Allianz) failed to respond properly when their central heating system broke down, and they 
called on Allianz for assistance under their home emergency insurance policy.
  
What happened
In December 2019, Mrs R and Mr R found that the radiators in their house were cold; water 
wasnt circulating through the heating system. Their central heating system had been 
overhauled less than three years previously, when a new boiler, and new valve and pump, 
were installed, and the system was given a power flush.
They had a home emergency policy underwritten by Allianz, who sent an engineer the day 
after it was contacted. In discussions with the engineer, Mr R said he thought the fault could 
be an airlock in the system, or a block in the magnetic filter. The engineer dismissed the 
possibility of an airlock, and said that to clean the filter, hed have to do pipework which
wasnt included in the policy. So he left without rectifying the fault.
Later that evening, Mr R was contacted by Allianz to advise that the engineer had reported 
the boiler as beyond economic repair (BER). As the system was relatively new, Mr R 
disagreed that the boiler was BER. He was told that his claim would be escalated, but this 
didnt happen.
Mrs R and Mr R had the boiler repaired at a cost of £75 by their own engineer, who found 
the issue to be an airlock in the system. They complained to Allianz about its engineers 
diagnosis that the boiler was BER, and raised concerns that if it was, it should have been 
condemned by the engineer whilst on site. They also reported that the engineer damaged 
pipes in their loft.
Allianz said the views the two engineers came to were different. But it agreed to reimburse 
the £75 charged by their engineer. It also offered to provide a further £75 to compensate for 
its poor communication, and it apologised for the failure of a manager to contact them after 
their initial complaint.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said:
Mrs R and Mr Rs engineer was able to remedy the fault, so she thought the 
diagnosis made by Allianzs engineer was incorrect. She agreed that Allianz should 
reimburse Mrs and Mr R the £75 repair cost they had incurred, with yearly interest at 
the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until settlement;
the consequence of the misdiagnosis was that the repair was delayed, and this 
caused Mrs R and Mr R to spend a further winters night in the house without 
heating, and to suffer further inconvenience. She recommended that Allianz pay Mrs 
R and Mr R compensation of £125 for this aspect; and
on balance, she considered it more likely in the circumstances that the damaged 
pipework was caused by Allianzs engineer, and that it should cover the cost of 
rectifying this. Mrs R and Mr R had obtained a quote for this. She said if Allianz didnt 
agree this, Mrs R and Mr R should obtain another quote, and Allianz could choose 
which to pay.
Allianz said it was willing to reimburse the £75 plus interest, and to pay the suggested 
compensation of £125. It asked to see the quote for repairing the pipework, and also asked 
that Mrs R and Mr R obtain a further alternative quote. These have been supplied to Allianz, 
but since then Allianz has failed to say what it is prepared to do. So this complaint has been 
passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. I agree that Allianz should reimburse the £75 repair cost, plus 
interest, and pay Mrs and Mr R jointly compensation of £125 for the distress and 
inconvenience its engineers misdiagnosis caused them. I note that Allianz has agreed to do 
this.
I also agree that Allianz should pay the cost of rectifying the damaged pipework in the loft. 
Mrs R and Mr R in fact produced three quotes for this work, depending on the type of filter to 
be installed, namely £448, £540, and £562, each inclusive of VAT. Allianz has failed to say 
which it is willing to pay. I think its reasonable that it should pay the cheapest one - £448.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Allianz should pay Mrs R and Mr R jointly the sums set out in my 
final decision below.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order AWP Assistance UK Ltd trading as 
Allianz Global Assistance to pay Mrs R and Mr R jointly, less any part it has already paid 
them:
1. £75 in respect of the repair cost they have incurred, with yearly interest at the rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until settlement (1);
2. compensation of £125 for the distress and inconvenience its engineers misdiagnosis 
caused them; and
3. £448 to rectify the damage to their pipework that its engineer caused.
(1)If Allianz considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs R and Mr R how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mrs R and Mr R a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman