DRN-3276602
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS), following the return of a car under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
On 27 July 2017, Mr B was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. The agreement was for £17,980 over 60 months, with monthly payments of £361.48. 
At the time of supply, the car was just over two years old and had done 29,499 miles. Mr B 
voluntarily terminated the agreement in March 2020.
Mr B says that he wanted unlimited mileage, but the agreement only allowed him 20,000 
miles a year  100,000 miles over the full term  before excess mileage charges applied. He 
also says that, when he queried this with the dealership, they told him it was a technicality 
and wouldnt matter  he could drive as many miles as he wanted.
When the agreement was terminated the car was returned to MBFS, and it was inspected for 
any damage. MBFS said there was damage that fell outside their Vehicle Return Standards 
(VRS) and they invoiced Mr B for this. They also invoiced him for exceeding the mileage 
allowable under the agreement. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the charges, and he said there was no damage to the car when it 
was collected. He also complained about the delay in the car being collected, and the 
inconvenience it caused him; about a parking ticket he received on the car while he was 
waiting for it to be collected; and about damage done to his driveway due to the car being 
stored on there.
While MBFS waived the excess mileage charges, they thought the damage charges had 
been fairly applied. They also said the delay in collecting the car was due to the coronavirus 
(Covid-19) pandemic, and they didnt think they were responsible for either the parking ticket 
or the damage to Mr Bs drive. Mr B wasnt happy with this response and brought his 
complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Mr Bs agreement came to an end in March 2020. And, despite the 
national lockdowns caused by Covid-19, he thought that MBFS not collecting the car until 
November 2020 was an excessive delay. And Mr B having to keep and store the car for an 
additional eight months wouldve caused him some inconvenience. So, he thought MBFS 
should pay Mr B £100 compensation for this delay.
But the investigator said that, even though there was a delay in collecting the car, it was still 
Mr Bs responsibility to ensure the car was stored safely and parked in line with any parking 
regulations. So, he didnt think MBFS were responsible for the parking ticket Mr B received. 
And he hadnt seen anything to show that MBFS had ever agreed to reimburse him for this.
The investigator also said that he hadnt seen any evidence the damage to Mr Bs drive was 
caused by having this particular car parked in one position for a prolonged period of time. 
So, he didnt think that MBFS were responsible for these costs either.
With regards to the damage to the car, the investigator said this fell outside of MBFSs VRS, 
and this was supported by video and photographic evidence from when the car was 
inspected. While Mr B had provided his own video of the car, this was not date stamped, nor 
did it zoom in or show the areas of damage highlighted on the inspection report. So, the 
investigator thought MBFS had acted fairly by charging Mr B for this damage.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the car wasnt inspected in his presence, 
and any alleged damage or marks on the car could have occurred in transportation or in 
storage after the car had been collected. He also disagreed that his video wasnt clear 
enough and said, the car had done 240,000 miles and was in really condition [sic] for this 
mileage, there is damage to my drive as well.
Because Mr B didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
excess mileage
While Mr B initially raised the matter of the excess mileage charge, Ive seen that MBFS 
havent charged this to him. Because of this, I consider this part of the complaint resolved.
delay in collection
Mr B terminated the agreement in March 2020, around the time of the first Covid-19 national 
lockdown. And the lockdown rules didnt allow for companies like MBFS to collect cars. So, 
this wouldve resulted in a delay that was outside of MBFSs control. 
However, they were allowed to start collecting cars again in June 2020 and, while there 
wouldve been a backlog of collections, I dont consider it reasonable that Mr B had to wait 
between June and November 2020 for the car to be collected.
Mr B has explained the inconvenience this caused him with both access to his property, and 
having an extra car taking up a space on his drive. Given this, Im in agreement that MBFS 
should pay Mr B some compensation for the inconvenience caused. Im also satisfied that 
the £100 recommended is in the region of what Id have directed had no recommendation 
been made. And I cant see any compelling reason to change this.
parking ticketMr B has explained that he needed to move the car off his drive, as he had workmen 
present, and they needed to park their van there. While I appreciate that he wouldnt have 
needed to do this if the car had been collected earlier, it was still Mr Bs responsibility to 
ensure that he parked the car in line with local traffic regulations. He didnt do this, and it 
resulted in him receiving a parking ticket.
I havent seen anything to show me that MBFS told Mr B they would take responsibility for 
any parking tickets while the car was in his possession, or that they agreed to pay this ticket 
retrospectively. And they didnt instruct Mr B to park the car where he did. As such, I wont 
be holding MBFS responsible for the parking ticket or asking them to pay this.
damage to driveway
Mr B has also complained of damage to his drive. While he hasnt supplied any evidence of 
this damage, I dont doubt that this occurred. From the photographs of the car Mr B has 
supplied, Ive noted that he has a tarmac drive. And in prolonged periods of heat, similar to 
those the UK had during the first lockdown period, tarmac drives can go soft and become 
indented due to the weight of an object i.e. a car, upon them. So, any car parked on the drive 
under these circumstances couldve caused damage.
Mr B has also explained that he had workmen park their van on his drive. And its likely that 
the van was substantially heavier than the car. And parking a substantially heavier vehicle 
on the drive may also cause some damage.
While I dont know what caused the damage to Mr Bs drive, as stated above there are a 
number of possible options. And, without any evidence i.e. an inspection report, saying that 
the damage was solely caused by the car being parked in one spot for a prolonged period of 
time, and that there were no external factors involved i.e. heat or the way the driveway had 
been constructed; Im unable to hold MBFS responsible for the damage. And I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
damage to car
Ive seen a copy of the hire purchase agreement, which Mr B signed on 27 July 2017. This 
clearly explains what is, and isnt, considered acceptable damage under the VRS.  It also 
explains that when the vehicle is returned to us, a Vehicle Standard Inspection will be 
carried out by trained technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre. And Ive seen that the 
termination letter MBFS sent to Mr B on 16 March 2020 also explains that he may be 
charged for any damage outside of the VRS.
Based on this, Im satisfied that Mr B was reasonably made aware of what damage was and 
wasnt acceptable, how and where an inspection would take place, and that he may be 
charged for any damage to the car.
Ive seen a copy of the Vehicle Condition Report, which shows the car was inspected on 24 
November 2020. And, as per the agreement Mr B signed, this took place at a Defleet Centre 
without him being present.
This report confirms that Mr B was being charged for damage to all four wheels (including 
the left hand rear tyre having tread below the minimum legal depth); for damage to both the 
front and rear bumpers; for damage to the boot; and for damage to the left hand front door. 
This damage is supported by both photographic and video evidence.
Ive reviewed the damage in line with the VRS detailed in Mr Bs agreement, and Im 
satisfied that the damage is outside of what would be considered as fair wear and tear.All four alloy wheels have signs of damage and corrosion that is more than the minor 
scuffing or damage under 25mm allowed under the VRS. And the 1mm tread on the left 
hand rear tyre is lower than the 1.6mm minimum the VRS allows. Ive also noted that 
corrosion and substantial tyre wear are things that take place over a prolonged period of 
time and usage/mileage, and are highly unlikely to have been caused just by the car being 
transported to, and being stored awaiting, inspection.
Both the front and rear bumper, and the boot, show preparatory marks to the paintwork 
(including bubbling) that is consistent with an unsatisfactory repair. And the VRS states that 
any previous repair [must be] up to an acceptable standard. Given that the car is being 
inspected for damage, I consider it highly unlikely that MBFS wouldve attempted to repair 
some, but not all, of the damage before inspection, and then levy a charge for the repairs 
thatd been done. And Im satisfied these repairs were attempted before the car was 
returned to MBFS.
Finally, the left hand front door has a dent of around 20mm. And the VRS only allows for 
dents of less than 13mm. Given all of this, Im satisfied that of the damage to the car is 
chargeable under the VRS.
Ive seen the pictures and the video Mr B has supplied of the car. The pictures are date 
stamped from early April 2020, and Ive seen nothing to show me that the video wasnt taken 
at a similar time. So, Im satisfied that these show the condition of the car around a month 
after the agreement was terminated. However, crucially, these were taken around seven 
months before the car was collected. And, by virtue of the parking ticket Mr B received, Im 
satisfied that the car wasnt stored on his drive for this entire time and was certainly driven 
and parked on a public highway for at least some of this time.
The photographs Mr B has supplied dont show the rear bumper or boot at all. The wheels 
have mainly been taken at oblique angles, or from a distance, and the front bumper has 
been taken from a distance. And, as these photographs are embedded within, rather than 
attached to, an email; its not possible to zoom in to see if the reported damage is present.
The video Mr B has also supplied also shows the wheels, and the front and rear bumpers, 
from an oblique angle. And, given the format the video has been supplied in, its not been 
possible for me to zoom in to see any areas where reported damage is present.
Im therefore satisfied that the evidence Mr B has supplied is too far away in time, and of 
insufficient detail in nature, to show that the damage hes being charged for wasnt present 
at the time of collection. 
Ive also considered that Mr B had possession of the car for almost three years and did 
around 203,000 miles. Given the nature of the damage, I consider it more likely that it 
occurred in the three years/203,000 miles the car was in Mr Bs possession, rather than the 
short period of time between collection and inspection.
So, I dont think MBFS have acted unfairly by charging Mr B for the damage to the car. And I 
havent seen anything that shows me they should reduce or waive these charges.Putting things right
MBFS should pay Mr B £100 to compensation for the inconvenience he was caused 
resulting from the delay in the car being collected.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. And Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman