DRN-3247405
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank plc didnt investigate an unauthorised payment thatd been 
taken from his account. He also complains about poor service.
What happened
Mr C has a current account with Lloyds. He attended a branch of Lloyds on 13 November 
2020. He made a deposit to his account. He says he subsequently noticed, on 16 
November, that shortly after making the deposit to his account a payment of £13 had been 
taken from his account. He says he didnt authorise this payment and he didnt recognise it.
Mr C was speaking to Lloyds about another matter on 16 November 2020. He says he 
raised a query about the payment of £13. He was told his query would be passed to Lloyds 
Fraud team and he would be contacted. He heard nothing further and contacted Lloyds 
again on 20 November 2020. He complained about what had happened. When he still hadnt 
heard anything, he contacted Lloyds again on 14 December 2020.
Lloyds investigated his complaint. It said it had refunded the £13 to his account on
15 December 2020. It said it had made an administrative error when this payment was 
taken. It apologised and offered Mr C £80 for the distress hed experienced because of what 
happened and £24 for the cost hed incurred when hed had to phone it. Mr C didnt accept 
this. He referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said Lloyds had explained how the £13 
payment had been taken from his account. Lloyds said that it was likely the cashier hadnt 
cleared Mr Cs profile before making a payment for the next customer attended to. Lloyds 
had confirmed there had been no data or security breaches and no fraud had occurred. Our 
investigator thought Lloyds had taken appropriate steps to put things right. It had refunded 
the payment and had offered to compensate Mr C. She didnt think it should have to do 
anything more.
Mr C didnt agree. He said he wasnt happy that the matter had been investigated properly. If 
he hadnt found the error, he wondered if it would ever have been noticed. He wanted all the 
fees charged to his account to be refunded.
Our investigator didnt change her view. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into the sequence of events here. Mr C first raised this matter with Lloyds on 
16 November 2020. But it was 15 December 2020 before the fraud operations team 
investigated the complaint. As part of that investigation questions were directed to the 
branch manager of the branch where the transaction had taken place. It was determined that 
an error had taken place on 13 November 2020. Mr C had made a deposit to his account at 
2.30pm. A few minutes later the payment of £13 had been taken from his account by bank 
transfer. The error was that the cashier hadnt closed Mr Cs profile after completing his 
transaction. This meant that the payment of £13 (for a subsequent customer) was taken, in 
error, from his account.
Lloyds was satisfied no fraud had taken place and that this was an administrative error. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied, on balance, with the explanation Lloyds has 
provided. It refunded £13 to Mr Cs account on 15 December 2020. And, Mr C accepts he 
hasnt suffered any financial loss as a result of what happened.
Mr C has queried whether this matter would ever have come to light if he hadnt raised it. I 
note that Mr C was sent statements for his account. There is an onus on consumers to 
check their statements and to raise any concerns they might have about transactions they 
do not recognise. So, I think, even if he hadnt noticed the payment when he was in touch 
with Lloyds on 16 November 2020, Mr C wouldve had the opportunity to check the 
transactions on his account when he received his next statement and he couldve raised the 
query about the £13 payment at that time. 
It is the case that when Mr C raised this matter there was a delay before it was investigated 
and the refund made. He had to contact Lloyds on 16 November 2020, 20 November 2020 
and then again on 14 December 2020 before Lloyds took the necessary action to consider 
his complaint and make the refund to him. In these circumstances, it is appropriate that 
Lloyds should compensate him for the delay and for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. Its offered to pay him £80 and a further £24 to compensate him for the costs of 
his telephone calls (£104 in total). I think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I dont require Lloyds to have to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank plc.
Lloyds Bank plc has already made an offer to pay £104 (in total) to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Lloyds Bank plc should pay Mr C £104.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman