DRN-2330184
The complaint
Mr K complains about what he says is a very long-running problem which has meant hes 
been unable to see any transactions on his account with National Westminster Bank Plc for 
five years. He says this has cost him a great deal, and he wants NatWest to pay for that. 
What happened
Mr K said he hadnt been able to access his bank statements for the last five years. He said 
that there was no online access to his statements, and that although hed asked for them 
repeatedly throughout this time, hed never been given access. 
Mr K said that without this information, he had been unable to monitor spending on the 
account. And hed been unable to prove expenditure and respond to requests for information 
from HMRC, employers and clients. Mr K said that all of this had led to significant losses. 
Mr K said his losses added up to over £18,000. But he said that although NatWest had now 
accepted it was at fault, it was refusing to pay this amount in compensation. 
Mr K said that NatWest finally sent him five years of statements in November 2019. It told 
him at the same time that this problem was fixed, but Mr K said it wasnt.
NatWest said that whilst Mr K may not have been able to view historic statements, he had 
always been able to see current transactions through online banking. It said that it could be 
certain that he was able to access his online banking, because hed made payments using it. 
NatWest didnt think it was responsible for the losses Mr K claimed. It said it would pay a 
total of £300 for this complaint.
Mr K said that wasnt anywhere near enough. He said that hed been unable to monitor 
spending on the account since 2013. He listed payments for subscriptions and direct debits 
that he said he had tried to cancel, and wasnt aware he was still being charged for. He also 
said that he missed out on expenses claims, because he wasnt able to show his 
expenditure. He said he was fined by HMRC for late submission of information while he was 
waiting for statements. And he said that he missed payments that should have been made 
into his account, including by a company that had since gone into administration so couldnt 
now be made to pay.
Mr K also said that all this meant that overdraft interest and fees wouldve been incurred 
when they should not have been. 
As well as asking NatWest to cover these losses, Mr K also wanted £2,000 for the distress 
all this had caused him.
NatWest said it had no record of Mr K raising these concerns before July 2019. And it 
repeated that Mr K had been using online banking for several years, because his statements 
showed that hed made direct payments using online banking.
Mr K said hed been reaching out to NatWest using phone calls, social media and then finally 
in writing. He sent us some evidence suggesting hed contacted NatWest in 2017 using 
social media.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld, because she didnt think that 
NatWest was liable for the losses Mr K claimed. She understood that Mr K couldnt view 
historical statements online. NatWest has tried to fix this, and been unable to do so. But she 
said that didnt mean that Mr K had no access at all to transactions on his account. He could 
see his most recent transactions, and he could always have requested printed statements. 
Our investigator understood that having to ask for paper statements would have 
inconvenienced Mr K somewhat, but it would also have reduced his losses. She said she 
couldnt hold NatWest responsible for Mr K not being aware of transactions on his account, 
including regular payments to some businesses, she couldnt hold it responsible for Mr K not 
being aware that payments hadnt been made or a refund hadnt been processed, and she 
couldnt hold it responsible for Mr K not having information to make claims with HMRC or his 
employer. 
Our investigator said that she thought NatWests offer of compensation was reasonable, and 
she wouldnt ask it to do any more.
Mr K said we had made assumptions, including that he did somehow have access to his 
transactions, and that he didnt ask for paper statements. He said that wasnt true. He said 
his access to information about his accounts has been extremely limited, with transactions 
either partly or wholly absent from his online banking. He said hed never received any paper 
statements until he escalated this issue to our service. 
Mr K also said that the only reason hed kept the account was because he had a NatWest 
loan. He said that if he couldve stopped using the account entirely, he would have done so. 
Mr K said NatWest was under a duty to provide him with a record of transactions on his 
account, and it had failed to do this. He said NatWest itself had acknowledged the history of 
complaints hed made about this. 
Our investigator said Mr K had only sent a very brief interaction with NatWest in 2017, when 
he was told that there were no issues with the system, and asked to provide his account 
details so any further problems could be investigated. She said that Mr K had told us initially 
that he couldnt see historic statements, but the last six months of transactions shouldve 
been visible through his ordinary online banking. 
Mr K provided evidence that his historical statements still werent available online. Our 
investigator said that still didnt show that NatWest had caused the losses Mr K claimed.
Mr K sent us a list of dates when he said hed complained. He also offered more information 
on why he thought NatWest was to blame for specific losses. Our investigator asked 
NatWest about this, and it said it still had no records of Mr K complaining about this issue 
before 2019. 
Mr K said that we were demonstrating bias, by asking him to prove everything he was 
saying, but werent asking NatWest to prove what it had done. He wanted his complaint to 
be considered by an ombudsman, so this case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator on this case.
There is certainly a problem with viewing Mr Ks historical transactions online. He cant see 
all the old statements in his online banking which Id normally expect him to be able to 
access. But NatWest has sent him paper statements covering this period, and its offered 
him a total of £300 to say sorry for the inconvenience. I think a total payment of £300 is a fair 
and reasonable amount to make up for the inconvenience of having to store and to use 
paper statements, instead of being able to access them online. 
Mr K says that NatWest needs to pay a lot more, because he says this problem has been 
going on for many years, hes had no way to check spending on his account, and this has 
led to considerable losses. 
Mr K says that he hasnt had access to his transactions since 2013. He has suggested these 
records have been corrupted, and NatWest may not have them. But NatWest has sent our 
service what it says are full records of Mr Ks transactions since January 2013. 
I know Mr K still isnt able to access all of his historical statements through online banking, 
and it seems likely that NatWest wont be able to restore that historical access for him, for 
statements that have already been issued. But I dont think its likely that NatWest doesnt 
actually have full records of Mr Ks transactions, or that these havent been provided to Mr K. 
Mr K has also said he didnt have access to his current transactions  recent transactions 
that I would expect to be visible through online banking, before they are collated into an 
online statement. But NatWest has been clear that Mr K has been a regular user of online 
banking, and its shown us evidence of that, because transactions on the records it has sent 
us show that Mr K was making payments using online banking. So I think that its likely that 
Mr K did have access to his current transactions through online banking throughout the time 
that this complaint covers. 
Mr K says that he has been asking for paper statements for many years. He has also told us 
that hes asked for these through social media, and on the phone, as well as in writing. And 
he says he was only sent these in 2019.
If Mr K had been asking for these paper statements since 2013, and had never been 
provided with them, then I would have expected that Mr K could send us evidence of contact 
between him and NatWest. But aside from one set of screenshots in 2017, which do show 
that Mr K asked about his statements, but dont show whether he followed up on that 
request, there doesnt seem to be any evidence of this complaint until 2019. 
NatWest did accept that Mr K had been complaining about missing statements for some 
time. But it dealt with this complaint between July and November 2019. It hasnt accepted 
that Mr K complained before this.
Mr K says that were asking him to prove his contact with NatWest, and not asking NatWest 
to show what happened. But we have asked both sides about this. NatWest says it has 
limited records. It doesnt store things like requests for statements for years if those requests 
are just routine and dealt with. But it does keep records of complaints, and it has no records 
of an earlier complaint from Mr K about this. If NatWest is right, then there isnt anything it could show us to prove Mr K hadnt 
complained. There wouldnt be any record, if either Mr K hadnt asked for paper statements, 
or if he had, and NatWest had just sent them to him. 
But if Mr K is right, then it seems likely that he would have some way to show us that hed 
chased up missing statements, or complained that he didnt get what he asked for, between 
2013 and 2019. And aside from two messages dated 15 November 2017 which Ive 
mentioned above, Mr K just hasnt shown us anything like that. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think its likely that Mr K has had no access at all 
to online information about transactions on his account since 2013. And it also doesnt seem 
likely that Mr K has been unsuccessfully requesting paper statements for his account since 
2013. For those reasons, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold NatWest 
responsible for the losses Mr K claims. 
It looks as if NatWest has only paid Mr K £100 of the £300 it has offered. Ive said that I think 
a total payment of £300 was part of providing a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. So Ill award Mr K the £300 that NatWest has offered now. But in case it has paid 
this money more recently, Ill allow it to take any payments it has already made into account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Mr K a total of £300 in 
compensation. It can count towards that award any money it has already paid Mr K for this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman