The complaint
Ms J is a member of a private medical insurance plan with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited and 
complains that it gave her misleading information about her cover.
What happened
On 2 September 2019, Ms J phoned AXA to enquire about cover for certain treatments. AXA 
told Ms J that it would make further enquiries of her GP in relation one of her conditions and 
it authorised a consultation with a gynaecologist in relation to her other condition. Ms J 
phoned AXA again on 3 October 2019 to update it and AXA said that it would need a 
procedure code.       
On 7 October 2019, Ms J phoned AXA with the code for a procedure arranged for 12 
October 2019. AXA told Ms J that it wasnt able to cover the procedure under her plan. I 
understand that Ms J went ahead with the procedure on 12 October 2019.
Ms J says that AXA gave her misleading information over several phone calls. She says that 
AXA first agreed to pay for the procedure then said it wouldnt do so. Ms J says that if she 
had known at the outset that AXA wouldnt cover the procedure, shed have been referred in 
the NHS. She says that she lost her place in the NHS because she planned to have the 
treatment privately. Ms J wants AXA to pay for the cost of the procedure. 
In response to Ms Js complaint, AXA said that it acted in accordance with the terms and 
condition of Ms Js plan but acknowledged that it made a mistake in leading her to believe 
that it would cover the procedure. It paid Ms J compensation of £300 by way of an apology. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that AXA had acted fairly in 
declining the claim under the terms and conditions of the plan but thought that AXA had 
mistakenly led Ms J to believe that she had a valid claim. The investigator didnt think that 
she could fairly tell AXA to cover the cost of the procedure. She thought that AXAs offer of 
compensation of £300 was fair. 
Ms J didnt agree with the investigator. She asked that an ombudsman consider her 
complaint, so it was passed to me.
DRN-1430867What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Ms Js plan
The membership handbook contains the following:
4.12 > Fat removal
We do not cover the removal of fat or surplus tissue, such as abdominoplasty (tummy tuck), 
whether or not the removal is needed for medical or psychological reasons.  
I understand that Ms J accepts that her plan doesnt cover the procedure she had. 
Did AXA treat Ms J unfairly?
Its common ground that AXA led Ms J to believe that the procedure would be covered under 
her plan. AXA paid Ms J compensation of £300. I think thats fair and reasonable and Ill 
explain why:
Ive listened to the relevant phone calls. Ms J first explained the procedure to AXA in 
a phone call on 2 September 2019. AXA should have told Ms J that the procedure 
she needed wasnt covered under her plan. Instead, it mistakenly led Ms J to believe 
that her plan covered the procedure. AXA didnt correct its mistake until 7 October 
2019. 
When mistakes like this happen, we dont proceed on the basis that the incorrect 
information is true: we look to see the effect of the mistake on Ms J.
When Ms J found out the true position on 7 October 2019, she was no doubt 
distressed to learn that the procedure she had planned - and which was only a few 
days away - wasnt covered under her plan. She was also disappointed and worried. 
She had to think about how to proceed  whether to have the procedure as planned 
or not.  
Ms J says that if she had known at the outset that AXA wouldnt cover the procedure, 
shed have been referred in the NHS. She says that she lost her place in the NHS 
because she said she was pursuing private treatment. Ms J went on to have the 
procedure privately, so she didnt, in fact, suffer any delay. But the delay AXAs error 
would have caused in accessing NHS treatment was no doubt a factor Ms J took into 
account when deciding how to proceed.
It was open to Ms J to cancel the procedure planned for 12 October 2019 and ask for 
treatment in the NHS. I can quite understand why she didnt wish to do that, as she 
needed the procedure and her condition prevented her from working. But that doesnt 
mean that AXA should pay for a procedure not covered under her plan. Im sorry to 
disappoint Ms J, but there are no grounds on which to direct AXA to pay for the 
procedure.
Considering everything, I think that compensation of £300 AXA has already paid Ms 
J in relation to her distress, disappointment, worry and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable. So, I dont direct it to pay any more.  
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Js complaint 
as I think that the compensation AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has already paid is fair and 
reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman