DRN-4034711
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit 
card account.
What happened
Mrs T says she opened a Capital One credit card account in September 2019. She says that 
decision was irresponsible and the account unaffordable as she had existing debts as well 
as a Count Court Judgements (CCJ) on her credit file. Mrs T says she was unemployed at 
the time and relied on benefits. She would like the interest refunded.
Capital One says it carried out appropriate checks on Mrs Ts application and says she 
declared an income of over £20,000 a year. It says it calculated her existing debts and 
checked her credit file before approving a credit facility of £1,500. It also says it has given 
Mrs T a telephone number for its specialist team if she is in financial difficulties.
Mrs T brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Capital One could have carried out further checks on the application such as looking 
at bank statements, but the lending decision is likely to have been the same. The 
investigator thought Mrs T appeared to have enough disposable income for the account.
Mrs T doesnt accept that view and says the disposable income was for her children not her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs T will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit card account providers must carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on any loan or credit applications. Those checks will of course vary depending on the 
type and amount of any lending or credit facility. I wouldnt have expected Capital Ones 
checks to have been as detailed here as compared to, for example, a mortgage application, 
but appropriate checks must of course be carried out.
I have looked at Capital Ones records and can see Mrs T told it she had an income of over 
£20,000 a year. I can also see Capital One checked Mrs Ts credit file and calculated her 
disposable income. I cant see any reference on Mrs Ts credit file to a CCJ or any adverse 
information such as late payment markers or defaults on it. So, Im satisfied Capital One did 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs Ts application and approved what I 
think is a relatively modest credit limit of £1,500. I can see Mrs Ts credit score is described 
as fair in 2022 and can also see that she appeared to manage her account appropriately 
after it was opened. I can see Mrs T made required monthly payments sometimes in excess 
of the minimum required amount. I think that provides additional evidence that the account 
was affordable.
I appreciate the investigator thought that Capital One could have looked at Mrs Ts bank 
statements as part of the checks carried out. I have looked at the statements and I cant see 
any evidence that would have led Capital One to conclude the lending was unaffordable. I 
cant reasonably expect Capital One to have known or realised any disposable balance was 
for Mrs Ts children.
Overall, Im satisfied that Capital One did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on 
Mrs Ts application and I have not seen any evidence of any adverse data on her credit file. I 
appreciate Mrs T had other debts but think a number of those agreements were taken out 
after 2019. It follows that I cant fairly order Capital One refund any interest as Mrs T would 
like. I can see Capital One has given Mrs T a telephone number for its specialist team which 
no doubt she can use to discuss the account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman