DRN-2836815
The complaint
Mrs G complains about NewDay Ltds decision to hold her responsible for transactions she
says she didnt authorise or make on her credit card.
  
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when he wrote to
NewDay upholding in part Mrs Gs complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both
parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here.
Mrs G told us the credit card isnt used often and that it is mainly used for emergencies.
Shes explained that whilst Mr G, her husband, is not an additional cardholder for the credit
card, he knows the PIN and she allowed him to use the card.
On 30 June 2019, six payments were charged to Mrs Gs credit card at a bar abroad. Mrs G
wasnt abroad at the time  it was Mr G who had visited Benidorm with some friends. Mrs G
has explained she gave the credit card to Mr G in case of emergencies and so the credit
card was in his possession. The evening prior to returning home Mr G and a friend visited a
bar.
Mrs G says Mr G received a free drink on entering the bar and that he then recalls ordering a
round of drinks which he was told came to 36 euros. Mr G used his own debit card to pay for
these drinks. Mrs G says it later became known on Mr Gs return home that hed been
charged 360 euros.
What happened next is not fully known. Mr G suspects his drink was spiked in the bar and,
as a result, he cant recall much of what happened after paying for the first round of drinks.
He does remember feeling disorientated and staff becoming angry and intimidating but this
is the most he can recollect until he woke up around nine hours later.
When Mr G awoke the next morning, he says he wasnt at his hotel. Mrs G has told us Mr G
awoke with a black eye and his shoes were missing. Mr G still had his wallet which
contained his debit card and Mrs Gs credit card.
Mrs G contacted the police in Benidorm on her husbands return home but was told she
would have to report this in person.
The six payments on Mrs Gs credit card relevant to the dispute are as follows:
 
Date Time Type of transaction Amount
30/6/2019 01:21 Chip and PIN £499.01
30/6/2019 01:43 Chip and PIN £602.41
30/6/2019 02:05 Chip and PIN £660.86
30/6/2019 02:36 Chip and PIN £759.76
30/6/2019 03:01 Chip and PIN £1,038.49
30/6/2019 03:47 Chip and PIN £1,168.86
30/6/2019 04:20 Chip and PIN 
(declined)£1,343.91
As shown above, a seventh payment was attempted but declined as this would have taken
Mrs G over her credit limit. Mrs G in her initial call with us said she got a text message to say
she was about to go over her credit limit. She told us she tried to get in touch with Mr G but
when this was unsuccessful, all she could do at the time was report the card as lost and
stolen online. NewDays contact notes say the card was reported as lost and stolen via E-
servicing later on the same day the transactions were made on 30 June 2019.
Mrs G has told us Mr Gs friend had similar transactions charged on his card.
Mrs G complained to NewDay. NewDay said it wouldnt refund the disputed payments as
theyd been made using the genuine credit card and PIN, and there was no reasonable
explanation as to how a third-party couldve made the payments and the card still be in
Mr Gs possession the following day. NewDay says it tried to contact the merchant (the bar
in Benidorm) about the payments but it was unable to make any contact with them.
NewDay adds that it was unable to raise a chargeback or section 75 claim for the
transactions as there was no evidence to suggest that the goods and services were not
received, or not as described, and no refund had been agreed by the merchant. Because of
this, it said the transactions would not be covered.
However, NewDay did refund a £12 late payment fee from September 2019 and the £12
over limit fee from August 2019. It also refunded interest totalling £150.86 from September
2019 and interest totalling £149.37 from August 2019 as a gesture of goodwill.
As Mrs G remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and felt it should be upheld in part. He was satisfied 
from NewDays technical evidence that the payments made using Mrs Gs credit card 
account were authenticated by the use of her genuine card and that the correct PIN was 
entered.
He recognised Mrs G wasnt abroad at the time and so didnt make the payments herself but
said that this in itself doesnt mean she didnt give her authority for the payments to be 
made. Our investigator explained that given the circumstances he could not say for certain 
what had happened in this case and in reaching his view of the complaint he needed to 
make a finding on what he thought was more likely than not to have happened. He said Mr G 
knew the PIN to Mrs Gs credit card and had her permission to use the card when 
necessary. While she may not have given specific consent for the disputed payments to be 
made by Mr G, he said under section 84 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 she is responsible
for the transactions he made. He concluded that whilst Mr G may have been drugged or 
deceived, he thought it was more likely Mr G authorised the disputed payments himself.
However, our investigator when looking at the disputed payments and the previous account
activity felt NewDay failed to meet its obligation to conduct transaction monitoring to keep
account holders safe from fraud. He felt had NewDay investigated the pattern of spending, it
wouldve been concerned and shouldve made contact with Mrs G to question the payments.
Our investigator thought NewDay shouldve done this from the third disputed payment and,
had it done so, he didnt think Mrs G wouldve approved the transactions and the financial
loss wouldve been limited to the first two payments only. Because of this, our investigator
recommended NewDay reimburse Mrs G from payment three, to recalculate any interest and
charges incurred by the payments and if at any time she wouldve had a positive balance it
should refund this along with 8% simple interest, to remove any adverse information its
reported about Mrs G on her credit file and, pay £200 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused.Mrs G replied to say she accepted the investigators view of the complaint but that she was
disappointed hed not applied his view to the first two transactions. She also felt more
compensation was due.
NewDay disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In
its response NewDay said:
It did not agree to liability as neither party can say the goods or services were not 
provided.
That repeated transactions validated with a PIN are less likely to be fraudulent. The 
merchant definition was hotel or lodging and not an adult entertainment bar making 
it difficult for issuers to monitor.
Mr G hasnt provided a reasonable explanation as to how the PIN was known and 
has confirmed the credit card was not stolen.
Prior to issuing my provisional decision, I reached out to NewDay to provide my initial
thoughts on this case. I explained that I wasnt satisfied NewDay had provided its response
to our investigators view in relation to the payments triggering. I was persuaded the
payments ought to have caused concern when taking into account the quick succession of
the payments, that the payments were for increasing amounts and, that they were much
higher in amount to previous spending on the credit card. I explained that while I had
considered NewDays point about the merchant definition for the payments, but for the
reasons I had highlighted I was persuaded they ought to have triggered concern.
NewDay didnt agree with these, and in reply:
Reiterated its reasoning for the transactions not being raised as suspicious. It added 
the card was out of possession and it is not expected to decline any transactions  it 
can only take relevant steps to ensure the card is not used fraudulently.
That making it liable for a customers failure to exercise sufficient oversight of a third 
parties behaviour would be disproportionate.
The terms and conditions state that if the customer authorises a third party to use 
their card then they will be liable for any spending by that third party.
So, the complaint is now with me to reach a decision.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 
10 May 2021. I provide a copy of my findings from that decision below:
Disputed transactions
One of the regulations that is relevant when considering Mrs Gs complaint in relation to the disputed 
transactions is the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). In short, NewDay can generally only 
hold Mrs G responsible for transactions she has authorised herself. If there are transactions that Mrs 
G hasnt authorised, then the bank would normally have to refund. The PSRs also say that a person 
to whom a card has been issued must use it in accordance with the terms and conditions governing 
its issue and use; and must notify the firm which provided it in the agreed manner and without undue 
delay on becoming aware of its unauthorised use.
Where credit is involved, as is the case in Mrs Gs circumstances the PSRs make provision for the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) to apply in place of certain sections of the PSRs, including those 
provisions which govern the apportionment of liability in unauthorised transactions.The relevant sections of the CCA here involve a credit facility. Section 83(1) of the CCA says Mrs G 
wouldnt be responsible for any loss arising from the use of her credit card facility by another person 
not acting, or to be treated as acting, as her agent. But Section 83(1) cant be read in isolation. 
Section 84(2) says that Section 83 doesnt stop Mrs G from being made liable to any extent for the 
loss to the credit card provider from use of the credit card by a person who had it with Mrs Gs 
consent.
Firstly, for a transaction to be authorised they must first be authenticated. In the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im satisfied the transactions in dispute were all correctly authenticated. Im satisfied Mrs 
Gs genuine card was used for the transactions and the credit card providers evidence does show the 
chip in the card was read. But that is not, on its own, enough to enable NewDay to hold Mrs G liable 
for the disputed transactions.
However, NewDay can hold her liable for the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not that she consented to them being made. This is the case whether she made them 
herself or authorised another to do so.
In situations such as these, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some 
of it is here), I have to reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is more likely than not to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about whether Mrs G consented to the transactions being made and to help me 
decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well as what both Mrs G 
and NewDay have told us.
It is not in dispute that Mrs G was not abroad at the time the transactions were made and, so she 
couldnt have carried them out herself. Mrs Gs credit card was in Mr Gs possession. This leads me to 
consider whether Mrs G gave consent for her husband to carry out the transactions.
Mrs G has said the credit card wasnt used often and was mainly for emergencies. Shes also said 
she gave the credit card to Mr G to use for emergencies whilst he was abroad. Mrs G has said Mr G 
did not use the credit card to make transactions and wouldnt have done so. In brief, our investigator 
said a possible scenario was that the merchant may have been operating a scam, whereby customers 
were persuaded to spend more money on their cards than they thought they were as a result of either 
being drugged or tricked. He thought this seemed like a more likely explanation of what happened in 
this case. He added that whilst Mrs Gs husband may have been drugged or deceived, he thought he 
most likely authorised the disputed transactions himself and that Mrs G can be held responsible for 
the transactions whilst her credit card was in his possession with her permission.
Mrs and Mr G have told us they believe he was drugged at the bar he visited. Ive not been provided 
with any evidence to show Mr G had indeed been drugged but based on what Ive seen and been told 
I have no reason to doubt what theyve told us about their suspicions, and so this may well be one 
possible scenario. It is also as equally as possible that Mr G may have been deceived about the 
payments he was making and, also possible that he may have attempted to make payments on the 
credit card albeit he may not recollect this.
When considering the above, I also have to keep in mind the terms and conditions of Mrs Gs credit 
card.
The agreement for Mrs Gs credit card account included the following relevant terms:
you will not have to pay for any unauthorised use of your Card or PIN after you have told us
that it is lost or stolen, or you think that it may be misused by someone (other than you or an
additional cardholder), unless you or an additional cardholder have acted fraudulently or
were responsible for the misuse, for example by allowing someone else to have the Card.
You may have to pay us up to £50 for unauthorised use before you let us know that your
Card or PIN is lost, stolen or liable to misuse.While our investigator considered possible scenarios as to what might have happened here as 
summarised above, Im not persuaded I need to make a specific finding on this aspect. I say this 
because, whether the transactions were made or authorised by Mr G or an opportunistic fraudster, 
either way I find Mrs G can be held responsible for the transactions that took place due to her 
breaching the terms and conditions of the credit card.
Did NewDay act fairly and reasonably?
NewDay in response to our investigators view said that repeated transactions validated with a PIN 
are less likely to be fraudulent. It added that the merchant definition for the transactions was hotel or 
lodging and not an adult entertainment bar, making it difficult for issuers to monitor.
Ive thought carefully about what NewDay has said about this, but Im not persuaded by this point.
As I explained above, prior to issuing this provisional decision, I reached out to NewDay to provide my 
initial thoughts on this point. And while NewDay didnt agree with these, having considered its reply 
my position remains unchanged. Ill explain my thoughts on this point again.
While the transactions might not have shown as being at an adult entertainment bar this does not 
mean that the transactions werent suspicious.
In this particular case, there were many payments made at a hotel or lodging within quick succession 
of each other (within around 20 to 30 minutes of each other) and were payments for increasing 
amounts. I also note all of the transactions were made within the early hours. So, I find it equally as 
likely that these transactions ought to have triggered concern even under the definition of hotel or 
lodging.
Im also mindful that the amount of the disputed payments were much higher in value in comparison 
to previous spending on the credit card. The disputed payments ranged from £500 to around £1,300. 
When looking at the previous usage of the credit card, I can see there were only four payments made 
between November 2018 up to the disputed transactions. Of these, I can see a chip and PIN payment 
from November 2018 which was for £31.66. It follows that I consider the transactions in dispute to be 
unusual when taking into account previous spending on the credit card.
Im persuaded the transactions (from the third payment) ought to have triggered in the particular 
circumstances of this case for the reasons set out above. Had they done so, NewDay ought to have 
made contact with Mrs G for example by text message to confirm the payment was one she was 
making. As this message would have gone to Mrs G and not Mr G, Im not convinced she would have 
replied to say it was genuine. It follows that Im satisfied she would have disputed the transaction had 
NewDay got in touch. And had she not responded to contact from NewDay, given the timing of the 
transactions, I think it would have been reasonable for NewDay to have blocked the account until it 
had received a response about the payments. I do note that Mrs G has said she received a text 
message in relation to going over her credit limit but from what Ive seen so far, this would appear to
have been a message she was sent following the declined seventh payment. Im persuaded NewDay 
ought to have questioned the payments on the account before this as set out above.
So, whilst we might treat the transactions as authorised, I think there was enough going on here that 
NewDay ought to have done more in this particular case to check the payments being made on 
Mrs Gs credit card, as our investigator suggested, from the third payment.
Im currently persuaded had this happened, Mrs Gs loss would have been limited to the first and 
second payment on the credit card.
Should Mrs G bear some responsibility by way of contributory negligence?
When answering this question, Ive thought carefully about what NewDays obligations were, as set 
out above. But another key issue is whether Mrs G acted reasonably taking into account all the 
circumstances in this particular case and whether her actions contributed to the loss.
Having done so, Im persuaded there is fault on both sides and I will explain why.Ive already set out above why I think the transactions from the third disputed payment ought to have 
triggered with NewDay. But in being fair to all parties, it doesnt feel fair to only hold NewDay liable for 
the loss from payment three. I say this because, Mr G was not an additional account holder on the 
credit card and in Mrs G giving her credit card to Mr G to allow him to use it (even if that was meant 
for emergencies) Mrs G was in breach of the terms and conditions of the credit card. I think a 
reasonable person would appreciate that in sharing the card and PIN (albeit with their husband) that 
there is a risk of loss that flows from this. Had Mr G not had the card in his wallet whilst away then the 
loss (disputed transactions) could have been prevented.
So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to say NewDay ought to bear the full loss (all of 
the payments from payment three onwards) Mrs G has suffered when that loss has resulted from her 
individual actions and, in the card being in the possession of someone who was not the cardholder or 
an additional cardholder.
Overall, Ive explained why I feel NewDay ought to have intervened here (from the third transaction) 
and that it should have got in touch with Mrs G about the transactions being made on the credit card 
sooner than it did for the reasons I have explained above. But I also think its fair that Mrs G takes a 
share of the responsibility for her losses as the result of her actions.
With this in mind, I think it fair and reasonable for Mrs G to share some of the responsibility for the 
loss that occurred. This means Im recommending NewDay reimburse Mrs G 50% of the disputed 
transactions from and including the third disputed payment.
Additional compensation
The investigator recommended NewDay should pay £200 compensation in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mrs G.
NewDay hasnt commented specifically in response to this recommendation. As set out above, I think 
NewDay ought to have intervened and got in touch with Mrs G about the transactions and, had it done 
so I think its more likely than not that her loss from payment three could have been prevented. 
However, given what Ive said about Mrs Gs actions, Im currently inclined to say £100 compensation 
would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
NewDay responded to the provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. 
Mrs G has provided a detailed response to the provisional decision, restating and expanding 
further on what happened. And setting out why she feels she should be reimbursed for the 
six transactions in full along with associated fees, interest and charges. 
In summary Mrs G commented: 
That Mr G had provided a reasonable explanation as to how the PIN was known  it 
was forcibly obtained by the merchant via drugging, intimidation rendering Mr G 
incapable of refusing them. 
She asked what the outcome would have been had Mr G been an additional card 
holder or, if this had happened to her - the cardholder, would the decision be 
different? 
She doesnt agree she should be held liable for 50% of the disputed transactions and 
including payment three.
She doesnt agree with the reduction in compensation and believes this should be 
increased. Mrs G referred to NewDays behaviour since raising the disputed 
transactions, to her requests to freeze the account and that interest continued to be 
added on the account balance. Shes reiterated the stress caused by NewDay and 
has highlighted evidence from other victims of the bar, along with records of when 
she tried to contact the police and confirmation of Mr Gs injuries. Mrs G suggested 
NewDay had enough evidence to raise a chargeback or section 75 claim but did not 
do so. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mrs G Ive thought carefully about all the points she has raised in response 
to the provisional decision but that in setting out my final decision on this complaint I may not 
specifically address each and every point. I will comment on those I think are relevant to the 
outcome of this complaint. 
 
I am also mindful Mrs G has provided a number of alternative situations and has asked what 
the outcome would have been. But we can only reach our outcomes based on the 
circumstances as we know them to be, which is what I have done here. 
 
I will now turn to Mrs G comments reiterating both hers and Mr Gs belief that he was 
drugged whilst at the bar where the disputed transactions were made. Having considered 
this point further, my stance remains the same. In my provisional decision, I acknowledged 
Mr and Mrs Gs belief about him being drugged and I recognise their strength of feeling on 
this point. 
In Mrs Gs response, she said Mr G provided a reasonable explanation as to how the PIN 
was known  it was forcibly obtained by the merchant via drugging, intimidation rendering 
him incapable of refusing them. But even if Mr G was drugged when the disputed 
transactions were made this would not invalidate Mr Gs consent. I say this because the acts 
of a victim of duress are treated as their own legal acts, so duress does not negate the 
payers authorisation for the purposes of the PSR. 
And in any event, as set out in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded I need to make a 
specific finding on this aspect as to whether the transactions were made or authorised by 
Mr G or an opportunistic fraudster, as either way I was satisfied Mrs G could be held 
responsible for the transactions that took place due to her being in breach of the terms and 
conditions of the credit card which are set out above. However, I also said that whilst we 
might treat the transactions as authorised, I thought there was enough going on here (for 
reasons summarised above) that NewDay ought to have done more in this particular case to 
check the payments being made on Mrs Gs credit card  from the third payment. Having 
reviewed the case again, I remain of the view that NewDay should have done more and that 
had it done so the loss would have been limited to the first and second payment on the credit 
card. 
 
So, it follows for the reasons Ive already explained in my provisional decision (copied 
above) that I remain of the position it would be fair and reasonable for Mrs G to share some 
of the responsibility for the loss that occurred. This means Im recommending NewDay 
reimburse Mrs G 50% of the disputed transactions from and including the third disputed 
payment. 
Ive also taken on board Mrs Gs comments in response to the reduction in additional 
compensation. But Im not recommending any increase in compensation be made. I 
appreciate Mrs G is unhappy with NewDays response to the disputed transactions and its 
finding these were not unauthorised. And that interest continued to be charged. As NewDay 
found the transactions were authorised this meant it considered the balance on the credit 
card account to be correct and so interest would continue to be charged on this balance. 
This said, I can see NewDay did refund a £12 late payment fee from September 2019 and 
the £12 over limit fee from August 2019. It also refunded interest totalling £150.86 from 
September 2019 and interest totalling £149.37 from August 2019 as a gesture of goodwill. I dont find NewDay has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this aspect and make no further 
recommendation in respect of this point.  
In Mrs Gs response she highlighted evidence from other victims at the bar, along with 
records of when she tried to contact the police and confirmation of Mr Gs injuries. Mrs G 
suggests NewDay had enough evidence to raise a chargeback or section 75 claim but didnt 
do so. So, Ive thought again about whether NewDay could have done more to help here.
 
In this particular case a section 75 claim wouldnt be applicable. I say this is because there is 
no debtor-creditor-supplier agreement here. It is accepted that Mrs G wasnt abroad at the 
time and could not have entered into a contract with the merchant herself. 
Ill turn now to whether a chargeback could have been raised. There is no obligation for a 
card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. But I would consider it 
good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and it is reasonable to 
do so. While I accept what Mrs G has told us in relation to Mr Gs state at the time Im not 
persuaded this would have been enough to enable NewDay to meet the basic requirements 
of the card scheme rules. So this point doesnt change my findings. 
Overall, whilst Ive carefully considered Mrs Gs response to the provisional decision, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, along with those previously set out in my provisional findings, 
my decision remains unchanged.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require NewDay Ltd to do the following:
Reimburse Mrs G 50% of the disputed transactions from and including payment three
Rework Mrs Gs account to remove any interest and charges which have resulted 
from the disputed transactions (from the third payment)
If at any time Mrs G wouldve had a positive balance, NewDay should refund this 
along with 8% simple interest; and the removal of any adverse information its 
reported about Mrs G on her credit file
Pay Mrs G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman