DRN-3266432
The complaint
Miss S complains Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited (Future Finance) irresponsibly 
approved her for multiple loans. 
What happened
Miss S was approved for the following loans by Future Finance:
Loan Date Amount Term In Study 
RepaymentOut Of  
Study 
Repayment
One January 
2016£16,100 129 months £75 £207 
(approx.)
Two July 2016 £3,000 127 months £15 £40 
(approx..)
Miss S says Future Finance acted irresponsibly when approving these loans. She says 
Future Finance did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the 
loans. Miss S says Future Finance therefore failed to ensure the loans were suitable for her. 
Miss S says the loans were unaffordable to her; and has incurred a loss as a result. 
Future Finance agreed to waive interest during holiday periods that Miss S had. These 
amount to a credit adjustment of approximately £720 for loan one and £26 for loan two.
Our investigator recommended this complaint be upheld. He felt that Future Finance had not 
completed proportionate checks prior to its lending decision for loan two. He recommended 
that Future Finance should refund the interest and charges which applied to loan two; and to 
waive the interest which had accrued when the payment holidays were approved. 
Miss S responded to our investigators view accepting his recommendation in relation to loan 
two. Whilst she didnt respond saying whether she explicitly agreed with the outcome in 
relation to loan one; she made the following points:
She thought Future Finances prediction of £30,000 for her future salary was 
unrealistic;
That she did not have a training contract (the necessary next step in her career 
journey for all people wishing to be a qualified solicitor);
She did not finish the course in 2016, but instead sat her last exam in June 2017. 
This was due to a combination of retakes and personal circumstances;
She had to leave her part time job in May/June 2016; and therefore had no additional 
income to support herself;
The payment holidays offered, whilst an act of forbearance, did not provide sufficient 
support for her considering her financial difficulties.
Future Finance responded to our investigators view disagreeing with the findings he had 
reached. Its response can be summarised as:
It set out details of its business and operating model. Future Finance has set this out 
to our service in a number of previous cases. Namely that it is entitled to rely on 
reasonable future predicted income; and that it is not a payday lender;
It completed proportionate checks at the outset. In relation to loan one it calculated 
Miss Ss future income as £30,000 and her predicted future outgoings per month 
were £572.44. It had considered Miss Ss existing financial commitments; and noted 
that she was not exceeding her credit limits at that time; 
In relation to loan two; again it completed proportionate checks. It had calculated 
Miss Ss future outgoings would be a total of £630.85 which included both loans and 
other reasonable expenses. Again it considered Miss Ss existing debt at that point;
In relation to loan two; this money was being used to help fund Miss Ss living 
expenses and as such her income reduction was lessened;
It had offered sufficient forbearance in the form of holiday repayments to Miss S. It 
had contacted Miss S prior to the increase in out of study repayments. It says it 
spoke to Miss S throughout this period and discussed her arrears with her. Future 
Finance did not receive responses from Miss S; and she continued to make her 
repayments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ss complaint. 
Bearing in mind the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice, I think that there 
are three key questions for me to think about while looking at Miss Ss complaint.
These are:
1. Did Future Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
Miss S would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
a) If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
b) If not, would those checks have shown that Miss S wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Future Finance complete a review of Miss Ss circumstances once the in study 
period had ended? 
a) If so, did this show Miss S had secured a job in line with the salary expectations 
and repayments were likely affordable/sustainable? b) If not, would those checks have shown Miss S had secured a job in line with the 
forecasted salary and could meet the repayments in a sustainable way? 
3. Did Future Finance act unreasonably in any other way?
Did Future Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself Miss S 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
Before I go on to consider the checks Future Finance carried out, Ive considered what 
Future Finance has said about its operating model and profile of its borrowers.              
Future Finance has highlighted that it is not a payday or short-term lender. It has explained 
that it offers student loans to individuals who are funding their further education. It says its 
approach to lending meets the relevant regulatory guidelines. The main difference between 
Future Finances lending and that typically provided by other lenders is that it completed its 
creditworthiness assessments based on the projected future earnings or income of the 
applicant.   
Future Finance has explained its assessment model is based on the result of the 
calculations taking into account the customers provided information and independent data 
that [it] analysis. In terms of the independent data Future Finance has explained this is 
based on independent data published by HESA [Higher Education Statistics Agency], who 
provide average incomes achieved by a combination of universities and courses across the 
UK.  
Future Finance needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly to   
Miss S. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Future Finance lent 
required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to 
assess Miss Ss ability to sustainably repay the loan over its intended term without causing 
her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as their circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for Future Finance to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone whos already struggling to repay what they owe; and 
ensuring repayments can be made sustainably  in order words without having to borrow 
further or experiencing undue difficulty. 
As noted above, Future Finance was entitled to rely on expected future income for Miss S 
when making this assessment. Provided that this assessment was appropriate (bearing in 
mind what CONC required in terms of proportionality) and there was an appropriate exercise 
of forbearance in relation to any initial payments. 
Loan one
Loan one was taken out in January 2016; and was for a capital amount of £16,100. The 
purpose of this loan was stated as being used for Miss S tuition fees and a contribution to 
her living costs during the period of study.
Future Finance has explained to our service in detail the checks it completes; along with how 
it calculates the predicted future income of its applicants. In this instance it searched        Miss Ss credit file, verified her stated income via payslips; and used this in conjunction with 
its internal systems to predict Miss Ss future income and outgoings.
Future Finance has explained that it calculated Miss Ss future income post-graduation to be 
around £30,000 per year. It did this using the method outlined above. It used the information 
on Miss Ss credit file and its own internal scoring to predict Miss Ss future outgoings and 
calculated these to be approximately £580 per month. Future Finance says these checks 
combined were proportionate. 
Miss S has explained to our service that she believes the figure of £30,000 was 
unrealistically high; and therefore the checks completed werent proportionate.
Ive considered what both parties have said in relation to the future predicted income for 
Miss S. And whilst I understand Miss Ss argument (that it is not guaranteed Miss S would 
secure a training contract); Im still persuaded that Future Finance was entitled to rely on the 
£30,000 figure when completing its checks.
I say this because the information Future Finance had at that point was gathered from third 
party sources  such as the Higher Educational Statistic Agency (HESA); and the third party 
course provider. This figure, £30,000, does not seem unreasonable at this point in time when 
considering the anticipated career path Miss S was planning on undertaking. Whilst this may 
not have been the salary Miss S ended up earning post-graduation; neither party wouldve 
known this; and the number in itself is not wholly unrealistic or implausible. So Im satisfied 
Future Finance acted fairly when relying on this.
However, with that being said, Im not satisfied that overall Future Finance completed 
proportionate checks in this instance. The key starting point here, is that the amount being 
advanced was substantial  over £16,000  and over an extended term. Whilst I 
acknowledge the nature and the purpose of these loans; the in-study repayments were still 
reasonably high at £75 per month.  As such Im satisfied that proportionate checks in this 
instance would include Future Finance needing to get a more detailed understanding of Miss 
Ss circumstances. 
Future Finance completed a credit search and used this information to help inform its future 
predicted outgoings. It had also asked for Miss S to provide verification of her stated income 
in the form of payslips (which she duly did). Future Finance says the information on the 
payslip as well as her credit file didnt indicate that Miss S was struggling financially; or that 
any of the information she had provided to that point was likely to be inaccurate. 
The credit search showed that Miss S had a number of active accounts. These were made 
up of various products including unsecured loans, credit cards and mail order accounts.    
Miss S had a combined total credit limit of approximately £4,500. Miss S was also using her 
overdraft facility at this time of around £1,000 with a limit of £1,500.  
Whilst Future Finance has used its own internal scoring system for Miss Ss outgoings 
figure; Im satisfied that it had sufficient information from Miss S which suggested that it 
needed to do more in order to better understand her outgoings during the in study period. I 
say this because whilst Miss S submitted her payslip for her income; Future Finance was 
aware that this figure was likely to decrease whilst she was completing her studies. It also 
knew that Miss S had a number of existing open lines of credit across a number of different 
products including unsecured loans, credit cards and store cards. It was also aware that 
whilst Miss S had an overdraft; she was using around 60% already.  Whilst Future Finance 
has provided our service with the results of Miss Ss credit file; it has not presented us with 
the actual copy of it; so Im unable to say how the repayments were being managed. I accept 
that part of this loan was going to help Miss S towards her living expenses, but that was a small amount; and considering what Future Finance knew about Miss Ss existing credit 
commitments; I think it shouldve done more to ensure the contribution to her living expenses 
was sufficient to make the in study repayments affordable.
I also note that whilst Future Finance has used its own internal calculation for outgoings; this 
is obviously lacking in gaining a complete understanding of Miss Ss outgoings. And as there 
were suggestions Miss S mayve had higher outgoings during the in-study period and 
beyond; Im satisfied Future Finance shouldve completed further checks in order for them to 
be proportionate.  
Loan two
Loan two was taken out in July 2016 and was for £3,000. The purpose of this loan was to 
help Miss S with her living expenses while studying.
Again Future Finance says its completed proportionate checks. It completed the same 
checks as those for loan one. Its calculations for her predicted future outgoings had 
increased to £630 to reflect the increased amount being borrowed.
By this point Miss Ss income had decreased to £3,600. Future Finance says that although 
Miss S provided a payslip showing her reduced monthly income; she had informed it she 
wasnt actually working at that point in time. Her credit file debt had increased to obviously 
reflect the £16,000 loan from loan one. However, her other debts had also increased. 
Importantly Miss S was now £1,462 into her £1,500 overdraft.
Having considered the checks which Future Finance completed; Im satisfied that again it 
shouldve completed further checks to understand Miss Ss financial situation better. 
Ive already explained why the checks carried out before loan one was provided werent 
reasonable and proportionate. Given Future Finance knew Miss Ss income had reduced 
and her indebtedness had increased by the time of loan two, it follows that the checks 
carried out before this loan was provided werent reasonable or proportionate either.
If the checks werent proportionate, would further checks have shown that Miss S would be 
able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
Loan one
Ive explained above why I dont think proportionate checks were completed in relation to 
loan one, and why Im satisfied Future Finance shouldve completed more checks to verify 
Miss Ss outgoings. As further checks werent completed; I have to consider what further 
information, wouldve likely shown about the affordability of the loan for Miss S.
Our service has asked for Miss S to provide further information about her financial 
circumstances at the time, such as completing an income and expenditure assessment, 
providing bank statements or copies of her outgoing bills. Despite multiple requests to      
Miss S for this information, shes not provided it; and as such I only have the information 
from Future Finances searches; and the written and oral information Miss S has provided.
In the absence of more persuasive or substantive information from either party Im unable to 
say that further checks wouldve likely shown this loan wouldve likely been unaffordable to 
Miss S at the point it was approved.
Whilst I dont agree Future Finances checks were proportionate; it was entitled to rely on the 
information it was presented with. This information seems to suggest that whilst Miss S had existing credit, the report Future Finance completed seems to suggest there were no 
negative markers; and she had a part time job from which some income was going to be 
available to her. Future Finance was aware Miss S had some available overdraft space; and 
access to other credit facilities; and as such it seems that Miss S wouldve been able to meet 
the cost of the reduced in study payment. I note that some of the £16,000 loan was going 
towards cost of living expenses, so it mayve helped supplement any income Miss S was 
likely to receive from her job. 
So, with this in mind; Im unable to say its more likely than not that further checks wouldve 
shown the loan was unaffordable to Miss S. As such Im unable to say Future Finance acted 
unfairly in approving this loan.
Loan two
Miss S has also been unable to provide further information in relation to her financial 
circumstances at the point loan two was approved. So again, Ive relied on the information 
which has already been provided to consider what I think further checks wouldve likely 
shown.
I want to point out that whilst Future Finances model is based on future earnings and 
predicted outgoings; it is still required to consider whether any short-term payments are 
affordable to its borrowers. That is to say, whilst it is reasonable to rely on the future 
expected salary for the main out of study payments; it does need to consider whether the in 
study repayments are affordable to its borrowers based on their circumstances at the time. 
In this instance, Im satisfied that further checks on Miss Ss circumstances wouldve shown 
that any further lending wouldve likely been unaffordable to Miss S even where the short-
term reduced payments are concerned.
By the point loan two was approved Miss Ss income had reduced significantly to around 
£3,600 per year before deductions. This amounted to having around £170 per month in 
income. Miss S says that at the point she applied for loan two she wasnt actually working at 
all due to conflicts in her school timetable. The credit file search completed at the time 
showed that Miss S had been using her overdraft facility further to the point she was now 
just £70 under the total limit.
Whilst this loan was being used to help with Miss Ss living costs; Im satisfied further checks 
wouldve shown that Miss S could not have afforded further credit and as such any further 
lending was likely to be unaffordable to her.
I say this because Miss Ss circumstances had clearly deteriorated since she applied for loan 
one. Mainly because her income had decreased significantly as a result of her studies. 
Whilst in some instances this may be fine considering the purpose of these loans; Im not 
satisfied in this instance; it was reasonable for Future Finance to advance Miss S further 
credit. 
Miss S already had a number of existing credit commitments including the significant £75 in 
study repayment for loan one, her payments towards her mail order and credit cards. And 
importantly the searches showed that Miss S was now further into her overdraft limit 
suggesting that her outgoings were exceeding her available income and credit.
Considering these repayments were high, and she was already into a significant portion of 
her overdraft, Im satisfied that Miss S was already significantly indebted, and therefore any 
additional credit wouldve simply been unaffordable.As such, I think further checks wouldve shown Miss S could not have sustainably afforded 
the repayments for loan two at this point; and as such Future Finance acted unfairly in 
approving this loan. 
Did Future Finance complete a review of Miss Ss circumstances once the in study period 
had ended? 
As Im satisfied Future Finance should not have approved loan two at the point of 
application; Ive only considered loan one moving forward. This is because any further 
findings or comments on loan two would not materially alter the impact of the outcome. 
Future Finance says that it was not required to conduct further checks once Miss S had 
graduated and her payments had moved to the higher out of study figure. It says it does 
however need to continue to monitor the repayment performance during the term of the loan.
As the bulk of the repayments on this loan were always going to be made once Miss S 
completed her course and Future Finance could only estimate what Miss Ss circumstances 
would be like at this time, Im satisfied it was reasonably required to ensure that once the out 
of study period had begun, Miss S was able to meet the increased monthly repayments. 
Future Finance needed to be satisfied that the predicted income had reached a suitable level 
(in line with its original predictions) to ensure that any repayments remained sustainable to 
Miss S. And if Miss Ss income hadnt reached that level, CONC sets out the requirement to 
exercise appropriate forbearance in these circumstances. 
Future Finance says it contacts its customers in the months leading up to the increase in out 
of study repayments. It says it asks for them to contact it to discuss whether they can afford 
the increased out of study repayments. It says in situations where a borrower cannot afford 
to meet the increased repayments then it offers at this point short term forbearance 
measures such as payment holidays. Future Finance say it would only conduct a full income 
and expenditure assessment if there was evidence of ongoing financial difficulties at the end 
of the holiday period. 
In this case Future Finance says it sent Miss S reminders for loan one in August, September 
and October 2016. It says these communications wouldve asked her to communicate with it; 
and that it received no meaningful response from her at this point in time. 
Miss S hasnt been able to provide us with further information from around this period of 
time. She has told us she was not earning the projected income at this point; and we know 
she was still having to complete her studies including resitting exams. We know she had 
borrowed further from Future Finance in the months prior to the lead up to loan one reaching 
the out of study period. 
Ive considered if Future Finance did enough to understand Miss Ss circumstances in the 
lead up to loan ones out of study repayments beginning; and on balance Im satisfied in this 
instance it did. I can see Future Finance did attempt to contact Miss S in the months prior to 
the increased payments; and Ive not been presented with any evidence from either party 
which shows Miss S engaged with Future Finance at this point. 
There appears to be some communication in December 2016 when Miss S was beginning to 
build some arrears; but Ive not been presented with anything from Miss S prior to this which 
demonstrates she made Future Finance aware of any potential hardship she was facing. So 
at this point, it seems as though Future Finance did attempt meaningful engagement with 
Miss S; and this was not responded to. So, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Future Finance did enough at this point to understand whether Miss S could meet the increased 
payments for loan one.
Did Future Finance act unfairly in any other way?
Miss Ss account began to show signs of distress in December 2016; and Future Finance 
contacted Miss S to discuss this. A payment was made by Miss S; and Future Finance says 
no further issue with her account was recorded until September 2017. At this point Miss S 
contacted Future Finance to request a payment holiday. At this point Future Finance began 
engaging with Miss S over her financial situation. It granted her the following payment 
holidays in relation to loan one:
11 October 2017 to December 2017;
11 August 2018 to September 2018; and
11 September 2019 to November 2019.
Future Finance in its response to our service says it couldve done more to further 
understand Miss Ss financial circumstances at this point. In response to this it agreed to 
waive all interest accrued for when the holiday periods began. It therefore adjusted Miss Ss 
existing credit by approximately £730.
Future Finance says that outside of these payment holiday requests Miss S made her 
scheduled payments. It says Miss S has not highlighted financial difficulties outside of the 
complaint she raised with it. Miss S has said that payment holidays are not sufficient when 
considering the overall amount of interest the loan is accruing.
Ive considered Future Finances actions in relation to the rest of Miss Ss relationship with it; 
and in this instance Im satisfied that it has already done enough to address any 
shortcomings. I say this because it has acknowledged it couldve done more at the point 
Miss S contacted it; which included returning the interest that accrued during these periods. I 
think that is appropriate; and in line with the type of redress our service would normally 
expect. 
Outside of that; it appears as if Miss S has been making her scheduled repayments; and 
there do not appear to be records of her contacting Future Finance to discuss any further 
hardship outside of the payment holidays. Miss S has also not provided our service with any 
further information to demonstrate this was the case either. So in the absence of that 
information Im satisfied Future Finance does not need to do anything further in respect to 
loan one.
Putting things right
As Im satisfied Future Finance should not have provided Miss S loan two, she has lost out 
financially by having to pay additional interest and charges. In order to put things right, I 
require Future Finance Loans Corporation Limited to:
To add up the total amount of money Miss S received as a result of having been given 
loan two. The repayments Miss S made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss S having paid more than she received, then any over 
payments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Future Finance should defer 
or limit repayments until Miss S is in a suitable position to make the 
repayments.
Future Finance should complete a regular review of Miss Ss finances to 
determine whether she is in a suitable position to make sustainable 
repayments. This review should be completed regularly (no shorter than every 
six months) to establish if Miss Ss income has met the necessary level for her 
to make any repayments sustainably. Once she is earning the appropriate 
income to afford sustainable repayments, Future Finance should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with her. If Miss S does not co-
operate with any reasonable attempts Future Finance makes to establish her 
affordability; then it can continue to pursue the repayment of the debt.
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in relation to loan 
two. 
I note that Future Finance has already remediated some interest for loan two in relation to 
the interest which was accrued during the payment holiday it offered Miss S in August 
2018. Future Finance is entitled to take any redress already credited in relation to loan two 
into account when making the above calculation.
In relation to loan one, I do not require Future Finance to take any further action outside of 
the steps it says it has already taken. That is to say, if it has not done so already, Future 
Finance needs to waive the interest which accrued in relation to loan ones payment 
holidays. 
 If Future Finance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should also give Miss S 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint against Future Finance Loan 
Corporation limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman