DRN-1989783
The complaint
Mrs H complained that HSBC Bank Plc provided her with an incorrect mortgage account 
balance on the day the sale of her property was due to complete. Mrs H also complained 
about a direct debit payment for her mortgage being taken from her account after the 
mortgage account was closed. 
What happened
Mrs H had a mortgage with HSBC. She was in the process of selling her existing home and 
buying a new home, and her completion date was 3 October 2019. On 27 September 2019, 
Mrs Hs solicitor requested a redemption statement, calculated to 3 October 2019. Mrs Hs 
solicitor was told the figure outstanding was £11,266.20. Mrs H then visited HSBC in branch 
on 28 September 2019 and repaid her mortgage in full. 
On 3 October 2019, so the day of completion, Mrs Hs solicitors were told by HSBC that the 
redemption amount of £11,266.20 was still outstanding. This meant that the charge held by 
HSBC on Mrs Hs property remained in place. So the sale couldnt go ahead, until the 
question of whether any money was still owed could be sorted out. 
Mrs H says she was told that she faced a significant financial penalty, in the region of 
£36,000, if the sale did not complete on 3 October 2019 as planned. Mrs H took time away 
from her new job to sort this matter out with HSBC. She waited for around 45 minutes to 
speak to a member of staff. The matter was then resolved and the charge was removed. So, 
the sale of Mrs Hs property completed, albeit late in the day. 
Mrs H complained to HSBC about what had happened. She also complained that a direct 
debit payment, in relation to her redeemed mortgage, was taken out of her account at the 
beginning of October 2019. 
 
HSBC responded to Mrs Hs complaint in November 2019 and acknowledged it made an 
error. It said it sent an earlier redemption statement to Mrs Hs solicitor on the day of 
completion that hadnt taken the redemption payment made by Mrs H into consideration. 
HSBC also said the operator from the Mortgage Servicing Department who spoke to Mrs H 
was right to make sure she went through the correct security processes when Mrs H couldnt 
recall her security details. It said the operator went above and beyond HSBCs normal 
security procedures to ensure they could speak to Mrs H and sort out the problem out.  
HSBC acknowledged that the direct debit for Mrs Hs mortgage was taken from her account 
in October 2019, after the mortgage was redeemed. It said the direct debit had entered the 
billing cycle by the time the sale of her property completed and it wasnt possible to stop the 
payment at that point. It said its returned the payment. 
HSBC apologised for what happened and for damaging the relationship it had with Mrs H. It 
paid Mrs H £1,000 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs H was unhappy with HSBCs response and complained to this service. She said the 
error by HSBC caused a great deal of stress. At the time, she was very concerned about 
incurring the £36,000 penalty and also had to take time off work to deal with this. Mrs H said 
she thought £5,000 to £10,000 was an appropriate amount of compensation. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. He acknowledged the stressful and difficult 
situation Mrs H was placed in. But said the amount of compensation already awarded was in 
line with this services guidance on compensation awards and is what this service would 
expect HSBC to have paid. 
Mrs H didnt agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint
HSBC has acknowledged that it made an error when, on the morning the sale was due to 
complete, it sent Mrs Hs solicitor the same redemption statement it had originally sent on 
27 September 2019. And so it hadnt taken into consideration the payment made by Mrs H. 
HSBC also said that direct debits enter a billing cycle around seven days prior to the 
payment being taken out and it isnt possible to stop the direct debit once it enters the billing 
cycle. And this is what happened in Mrs Hs case. 
HSBC has apologised and paid £1,000 compensation. So I need to decide whether this 
amount is enough, considering the inconvenience and distress Mrs H experienced. And Im 
satisfied it is. Ill explain why. 
Ive listened to the phone calls made by Mrs H to HSBCs Mortgage Servicing Department 
and theres no doubt she was distressed. Selling a property is in itself stressful enough, so I 
understand how distressing it must have been when Mrs H thought the sale might not 
complete - in particular because there was a possibility Mrs H might have faced a significant 
financial penalty. Mrs H had also recently started a new job and so was upset that she had 
to try and deal with this matter while she was working. So, I do appreciate how stressful this 
must have been for Mrs H. 
Ive also taken into consideration that HSBC dealt with this matter quickly, after it was 
brought to its attention. And so Mrs H was able to complete the sale of her property as 
planned on 3 October 2019. This meant Mrs H didnt incur the financial penalty that she was 
understandably so concerned about. And it also means the stress experienced by Mrs H, 
although undoubtedly unpleasant, was limited to that one day. 
Mrs H also complained about the direct debit that was taken from her account, but HSBC 
has refunded this already and so I wont be asking it to take any further action. 
So while I appreciate how stressful this must have been for Mrs H, for the reasons outlined 
above, Im satisfied that the £1,000 already paid by HSBC for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its error is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman