DRN-3573558
The complaint
Mr B complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General (Fairmead) 
did not complete repairs to appropriate standards after he made a claim on his home 
insurance policy in 2019.
There are several parties and representatives of Fairmead involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Fairmead.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr B had an escape of water in his home and he made a claim on his home 
insurance policy. Fairmead accepted the claim and repairs were completed by Fairmeads 
appointed contractors in the bath and shower area. This included installing new tiles.
In September 2019 a wet area was noticed in the hallway downstairs. A section of 
plasterboard was removed from the hallway to allow drying out. 
In 2020 after Mr B complained of a leak through the tiles, Fairmeads contractor carried out 
some tanking and retiling. Tanking is a method of preventing water ingress by creating a 
completely impermeable waterproof barrier on an internal wall.
In 2021 Mr B reported the wet area in the hallway area was getting worse. After it was 
investigated by Fairmead it was deemed to be caused by an outside drain.
Fairmead acknowledge that Mr Bs claim from 2019 has not been without issue and this is 
the fourth complaint connected to it. 
This complaint is the first brought to our service, and is specifically about the following 
points:
Fairmead failed to inform him the tiles he had chosen were unsuitable .
Fairmead failed to fully tank around the bath and shower area. This resulted in water 
getting through the tiles and grouting and running down the walls into the downstairs hall 
causing damp. 
Fairmeads contractors said the high moisture levels detected behind the plasterboard 
covering in the stairwell are not as a result of the leak in 2019. It said there is another pre-
existing issue within the property. 
Fairmead made a cash payment to Mr B to complete the work to put right and redecorate the 
hallway and to waterproof a joint at the end of the bath.
Mr B would like Fairmead to tank out the bathroom fully and fix the house, including the 
hallway.
As Mr B was not happy with Fairmead, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They said they had looked at the opinions 
supplied by the experts and they didnt think there was enough evidence, based on the 
reports to say the damp was a result of the initial claim or stems from the limited tanking. 
Therefore they did not think Fairmead needed to do anything more.
As Mr B is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my response I shall not refer to the specifics of previous complaints made by Mr B about 
this claim. This is the first complaint regarding this claim to be brought to our service and I 
can only consider this complaint.
Mr B said he was not told the tiles he had chosen were unsuitable to be used on walls that 
were not tanked. However Fairmead report that its contractors discussed the tiles with him. 
Fairmead said ultimately the tiles were ok, but they would require more regular maintenance 
from Mr B, due to the bevel on them and the amount of grout lines due to the tile being 
smaller than the ones they were replacing. It said this was mentioned in the conversation 
when it discussed that there would be an increased financial contribution, from Mr B, to carry 
out the tiling work, because the tiles he had chosen were smaller than the previous tiles and 
therefore there was more work needed to apply and grout between them.
I have not seen any evidence to confirm the replacement tiles were unsuitable. 
Fairmead said that prior to the incident the bathroom was not tanked and therefore this work 
wasnt covered under the terms of Mr Bs home insurance policy. Insurance is designed to 
put the policy holder back into the position they were in before the damage happened.
Fairmead said it was not a requirement under building regulations to install a tanking system 
and as tanking was not installed when the initial claim was settled, this would be considered 
as betterment and therefore was not covered by the policy. 
However it is important that any repairs should be effective and lasting.
Fairmead said when it returned to rectify the initial issues in the bathroom, the partial tanking 
of the bathroom was completed in the areas where there would be a higher concentration of 
water from the use over the bath as a gesture of goodwill. 
Fairmead said no further leaks from the tiles have happened and it did not accept that the 
damp in the hallway was as a result of a leak from the tiles in the bathroom. 
I saw evidence that Fairmead appointed an independent surveyor in August 2021 to report 
on the cause of the damp in the house. The report said tests undertaken confirmed two 
different sources of water had caused the damp. It identified a small area of floorboarding 
beneath the bath was wet and said work was required to waterproof the joint at the foot of 
the bath. 
The report noted damp in areas of the stairwell were remote of the bathroom and could not 
have been affected by the leak from the bathroom. It concluded the damp identified at a low 
level in the hall to be from another source.  And as blocked drains were discovered in the vicinity of this area, they were considered a possible cause of this damp. It advised Mr B the 
drains needed clearing. 
I dont think theres any evidence, based on the reports I have seen, to say the damp in the 
hallway is a result of the initial claim or stems from tiles in the bathroom.
I saw that Fairmead paid Mr B £600 to reseal the joint at the foot of the bath and refit the 
bath panel, and to complete the redecoration required in the hallway after it had completed 
its investigations and drying out. A cash payment was made for this because both Mr B and 
Fairmeads contractors were reluctant to have works continue. And Fairmead were unable to 
find another contractor in the area Mr B is located.
Fairmead accept that Mr B received a less than desired level of service and have 
apologised. It paid him £500 in relation to the issues in this particular complaint. The poor 
level of service caused significant inconvenience and disruption to Mr B and I think Fairmead 
couldve established the cause of the damp to the hallway much sooner than it did. I 
therefore think £500 is fair in this case.
After considering everything in the above complaint points, I do not think that Fairmead have 
acted unfairly.  I havent seen any evidence that confirms that the tiles were not suitable. The 
evidence provided by Fairmead confirmed the damp in the hallway is from another source. 
And I therefore think this means, after the repairs in the bathroom were completed, the fitting 
of the tiles is now effective. I do not think Fairmead need to fully tank out and retile Mr Bs 
bathroom or carry out any further work in the hallway. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and do not require Fairmead to do anymore in 
this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman