DRN-2926991
The complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of the Estate of Mrs K that the National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) wont pay him the difference between the costs he incurred 
in legal action and what his advisors charged him. Mr K believes NFU should pay him 
around £10,000.
Where I refer to NFU, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
For ease of reading, Ill mostly only refer to Mr K where I mean the Estate of Mrs K. 
  
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide a summary of some key events here. Mr K made a claim on a legal expenses 
policy with NFU to cover two related legal disputes  to defend planning enforcement action 
brought by the local council  and to take legal action against the council for 
maladministration and misfeasance.
Whilst the claims were initially both accepted, cover was later withdrawn by NFU for the 
maladministration and misfeasance. Mr K has previously complained to our service about 
the cover being withdrawn and about delays in arranging for payment of the costs that were 
covered up until a complaint response NFU had issued in July 2017. That matter was 
considered by an ombudsman at our service who concluded it wasnt a complaint we could 
consider as it was outside of our jurisdiction. A decision to this effect was issued in May 
2019. 
But cover had remained in place for defending the enforcement action from the council and 
this concluded successfully for Mr K when the enforcement notice was quashed. In June 
2017 The Planning Inspectorate ordered that the council pay Mr K his costs of the appeal 
proceedings.
Ultimately Mr K accepted around £55,000 from the council towards his costs. But this still left 
him with a shortfall. Mr K complained again to NFU and asked them to make up the 
difference. NFU declined to do so, in summary they explained that costs are considered on a 
standard basis. As this was how the costs had been assessed against the council, they 
wouldnt be able to contribute towards the shortfall as the policy only provides cover for costs 
on the same standard basis. 
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators didnt think it should be 
upheld. Overall, he thought that NFU had acted fairly. Mr K says that our investigator had 
considered more issues than what his actual complaint was. He made clear that he was 
solely complaining about NFU not reimbursing him the shortfall and nothing further. He 
doesnt wish our service to comment on the conduct / behaviour of NFU, just whether they 
ought to make up the shortfall. He also highlighted some case law which he says supports 
his position. Mr K asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
In June 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr K for providing clarity in response to our investigator as to the specifics of 
his complaint. Hes asked that I make a finding as to whether NFU owe him further money in 
lieu of the costs he incurred. It isnt my role to make a finding as to whether money is legally 
owed by one party to another. But I can consider whether NFU have acted fairly and 
reasonably in all the circumstances when declining to pay anything further towards Mr Ks 
costs. 
The relevant part of the NFU policy says We will pay the costs and expenses incurred by a 
representative Those legal costs are given a specific definition within the policy of All 
reasonable and necessary costs chargeable by the representative on a standard basis 
Terms like this are very common to this type of insurance. Only reasonable and necessary 
costs are provided for in the work undertaken by a representative on behalf of the insured. I 
dont think its unfair that costs that dont meet that threshold arent covered.
In this case, had Mr K not been awarded his costs, these would have been met by NFU and 
in line with the above policy term only reasonable and necessary costs are covered. Its 
likely NFU would have engaged a costs draftsman to assess the costs in that regard. But in 
this case, an award of costs against the other side was made. A costs lawyer was appointed 
to help negotiate the settlement of the same.
The costs lawyer involved concluded that the offer from the council was at the higher end of 
the typical range. They also said: Detailed assessments are notoriously difficult to predict. 
The most common range is between 60-80% of the costs incurred, so in this case that would 
equate to £41,995.50 - £55,994. The offer is a substantial increase upon the previous offer 
of £37,500.
I think it is fair for NFU to rely on the costs lawyers opinion that the offer from the other side 
ought to be accepted and that it was towards the higher end of the typical range. But a 
negotiation to settle costs isnt the same thing as an assessment of whether or not those 
costs were reasonable and necessary. In any negotiation of this nature its highly likely that 
there will always be an element of compromise. The costs lawyer themselves acknowledged 
this when saying Sadly it is commonly the case that costs cannot be recovered in full. Whilst 
the costs may be reasonable as between you and the solicitor, it does not necessarily follow 
that they are all payable by [the council].
I accept its likely that there is going to be a lot of common ground between what was 
negotiated in settlement from the other side and what was reasonable and necessary (in 
line with the policy terms). But usually Id expect an insurer to make an assessment of what 
they should pay under the terms of the policy, and then to deduct from that amount whatever 
was recovered from the other party involved in the legal dispute. 
I dont think it is reasonable for NFU to rely on what the costs lawyer has said to conclude 
that the shortfall between what was incurred and what the other side paid  was made up of 
costs that werent reasonable or necessary. And in the absence of a further assessment of 
those costs, I think more needs to be done. But it doesnt automatically follow that all of the 
shortfall will be paid. 
Mr K believes NFU should meet the full shortfall and has made reference to Woodford v AIG 
[2018] EWHC 358 in which the Court found that an insured is entitled, contractually, to 
recover costs reasonably incurred in full irrespective of how a Court might approach an assessment of those costs (the latter being a discretionary process, the former being a 
contractual entitlement). 
My role requires that I make my decision on what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. So whilst the law is a relevant consideration, our service doesnt 
automatically approach a complaint in the same way that a court might. That being said, Ive 
read the judgement that Mr K has referenced and have taken it into consideration but there 
are some notable differences between that case and the situation here and I remain of the 
opinion that my proposed resolution to this complaint is fair. Mr Ks policy doesnt provide an 
indemnity against losses it provides for the reasonable and necessary costs of a legal 
defence where such a situation is an insured incident under the policy. The policy is clear 
that only reasonable and necessary costs are covered and that any claim will be assessed 
on a standard basis. So thats the contractual basis on which Mr K may claim his costs.
In summary, I dont think that NFU have done enough to evidence that the shortfall doesnt 
include reasonably and necessarily incurred costs. 
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either 
Mr K on behalf of the Estate of Mrs K or from NFU, Im intending to uphold this complaint in 
part. 
I intend to direct National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited:
To appoint a costs draftsman to make a detailed assessment of the costs to evidence 
that they were reasonable and necessary.
if the reasonable and necessary costs are greater than the amount recovered from 
the other party, the difference should be paid to the Estate of Mrs K. 8% simple 
interest yearly should also be added to that amount. This should be calculated 
between the date the offer from the other side was accepted and the date of 
settlement.
Mr K and NFU provided responses which Ill address below. Now both sides have had an 
opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NFU said that they had concerns there could be far reaching implications to my intended 
outcome. In summary they said the costs lawyers assessment would have involved an 
assessment of costs on a standard basis. And if the offer from the other side didnt represent 
that, they had the option to allow it to progress to a Provisional Assessment (which they 
didnt recommend). They point out that the offer was described as being at the upper end of 
a standard basis recovery. They also believe that another assessment is likely to produce a 
very similar if not lower amount compared to the offer that was accepted. NFU also said that 
some of my quotes from the costs lawyer were out of context as they were intended to help 
explain the difference between a standard and an indemnity basis. 
Ive considered this and I understand NFUs position. But I maintain that there is a material 
difference between a negotiation as to costs between parties on a standard basis as directed 
by a court and what costs actually were reasonable and necessary in line with the policy 
terms. By its very nature a negotiation is, in my opinion, more likely to result in a 
compromise whereas reasonable and necessary costs on a standard basis are objectively 
what the policy provides for. I acknowledged in my provisional decision it is highly likely that there will be a large degree of overlap between the offer and what a further assessment 
might find to be reasonable and necessary costs. 
But as things stand, I dont think NFU have enough to evidence that some of the shortfall 
between the offer and the total costs incurred isnt made up of reasonable and necessary 
costs. If the assessment finds the costs to be a lower amount, then nothing further will be 
payable.
Mr K requested that any costs draftsman not be linked to NFU or their claims handler. He is 
of the opinion that their impartiality cant be assumed. He also believes that a detailed 
assessment will require his involvement and has asked me to consider directing that NFU 
indemnify him for legal representation in the process. Ive considered this but Im not 
persuaded that either NFU cant use their own costs draftsman nor that they need to further 
indemnify Mr K in the way hes requested. 
It is common industry practice that at the conclusion of a claim, costs are assessed by a 
costs draftsman. Its similarly common that this assessment is done by an insurers claims 
handler. And whilst I can understand Mr Ks point, Im not persuaded there is evidence to 
support that NFUs in house team would be biased against him. Its also likely that Mr K 
wont be required to have significant involvement in the process, but where his input is 
required, Im not persuaded that NFU need to meet his costs of providing further information 
if requested or for the time of a representative should he choose to use one. 
Overall, Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. The National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited must:
appoint a costs draftsman to make a detailed assessment of the costs to evidence 
that they were reasonable and necessary. (For clarity this can be done in house with 
NFUs claims handler);
if the reasonable and necessary costs are greater than the amount recovered from 
the other party, the difference should be paid to the Estate of Mrs K. 8% simple 
interest yearly should also be added to that amount. This should be calculated 
between the date the offer from the other side was accepted and the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K on behalf of 
the Estate of Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman