DRN-4262481
The complaint
Miss Y complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited will no longer cover 
her claims for a specific medical condition under her pet insurance policy and about its 
service. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
What happened
Miss Y has pet insurance for her dog insured by Red Sands. The policy started on 
18 December 2021 and renewed in December 2022. The policy covers a medical condition 
for 12 months from the date the condition is first noticed by the policyholder or their vet, with 
a £4,000 annual condition limit.
Miss Y said her dog came from abroad a few years ago having been tested as negative for 
diseases including leishmaniasis. In October 2022 the dog was seen by a vet and due to her 
symptoms the vet advised she be tested for leishmaniasis. In early November 2022 the vet 
told Miss Y her dog had leishmaniasis.
In November and December 2022 Miss Y made claims on the policy for her dogs treatment 
for leishmaniasis and Red Sands accepted and paid for those claims. On 28 December 2022 
Red Sands wrote to Miss Y saying it had wrongly paid the claims as cover for leishmaniasis 
was excluded by the policy terms. It said it would pay the 28 December 2022 claim as a 
goodwill gesture due to its mistake. Red Sands paid a further claim for the condition in 
January 2023. 
When Miss Y complained to Red Sands its final response letter apologised for the confusion 
caused by it accepting some of the claims for the condition and said it wouldnt ask her to 
repay the costs it had wrongly paid. It wouldnt continue cover for leishmaniasis.
Miss Y complained to us. In summary she said:
The exclusion Red Sands relied on to not cover the condition was in a separate 
document on the portal called policy booklet. The policy documentation was 
deliberately misleading as in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
leishmaniasis wasnt listed as excluded.
She renewed her policy on the basis that leishmaniasis was covered as at the time of 
renewal Red Sands had accepted her claims for the condition.
She wants Red Sands to pay the outstanding claims and pay for her dogs future 
treatment for leishmaniasis up to the policy limit for the 12 months period. 
She also wants compensation for the unnecessary stress and her future financial 
burden Red Sands had caused.
Our investigator said Red Sands had acted fairly in not covering the outstanding claims for 
leishmaniasis and in not covering the condition in the future.
Miss Y disagrees and wants an ombudmans decision. She said:
Wed not considered that Red Sands payment of some claims for leishmaniasis had 
set her expectation that the condition was covered by the policy. Shed made 
decisions about treatment and renewed the policy with the expectation that the 
condition was covered.
She had significant financial loss which would increase as the treatment continued 
due to Red Sands mistake, which was unfair.
We should require insurers to give clear and transparent information to customers. 
The exclusion for leishmaniasis was in a separate document on Red Sands 
customer portal and she found that unclear and deceptive. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss Y but I think Red Sands acted reasonably in not covering the 
outstanding claims for leishmaniasis and in not covering the condition in the future. It doesnt 
need to pay Miss Y compensation for its poor service. Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions in the policy booklet at section A vet fees say:
Conditions we dont cover
We dont cover. leishmaniasis
So the policy specifically excludes cover for leishmaniasis. 
Ive considered the points Miss Y makes about why she thinks Red Sands cant fairly rely on 
the exclusion.
Its for an insurer to decide what it will and wont cover in an insurance policy but it needs to 
make the cover clear to the consumer. The exclusion for leishmaniasis isnt in the IPID.
We generally consider that its fair for an insurer to set out the main areas of cover and 
exclusions and any unusual/significant exclusions in the IPID. I dont think the exclusion for 
leishmaniasis is a significant area of cover for the majority of consumers and the exclusion 
isnt unusual as most pet insurance policies exclude cover for leishmaniasis. I think it was 
reasonable for Red Sands not to put the exclusion for leishmaniasis in the IPID.
Also I think Red Sands gave Miss Y clear information that the IPID didnt set out all the cover 
and exclusions and she needed to look at all the policy documents to see what was and 
wasnt covered. The first paragraph of the IPID says:
The Insurance Product Information Document gives a summary of the main cover 
and exclusions, and is not personalised to your specific needs. You can find the full 
information by reading your Policy Schedule and Policy Booklet. The welcome letter Miss Y received from Red Sands when she took out the policy says the 
policy schedule, IPID and policy booklet should be read together as one contract of 
insurance. 
I dont think the information Red Sands gave Miss Y about the exclusion for leishmaniasis 
was misleading or deceptive, as she suggests. Im satisfied Red Sands gave Miss Y clear 
information that she needed to look at all three policy documents to ensure the policy met 
her needs.
Miss Y made the decision to renew the policy expecting Red Sands to cover the 
leishmaniasis as it hadnt declined the claims shed made for the condition at the time of 
policy renewal on 18 December 2022. But from Red Sands letter of 28 December 2022 
Miss Y knew on or about that date that it had mistakenly paid the claims for leishmaniasis 
and it wasnt going to cover the condition in the future. Red Sands letter of 3 January 2023 
to Miss Y also said leishmaniasis wasnt covered by the policy.
Even if Red Sands had correctly declined the claims for leishmaniasis before Miss Y 
renewed the policy the condition would have been a pre-existing condition at renewal time, 
which most pet insurance policies dont cover. And leishmaniasis is a condition excluded by 
most pet insurance policies. So I think its probable Miss Y would have had difficulty in 
finding an alternative insurance which would have covered the pre-existing leishmaniasis. 
And if she could have found alternative insurance she could have changed to that insurance. 
Red Sands caused further confusion when it wrongly accepted a claim for leishmaniasis in 
January 2023. But given the content of Red Sands letter of 28 December 2022 I think it had 
done enough to tell Miss Y it didnt intend to cover the condition in the future.
Overall Im satisfied that Red Sands acted fairly and reasonably in relying on the policy 
exclusion for leishmaniasis to not pay the outstanding claims for the condition and to not 
cover the condition in the future.
Red Sands gave Miss Y poor service by mistakenly accepting claims for a condition which 
the policy didnt cover. When Red Sands told Miss Y about its mistake she had a loss of 
expectation and that was stressful and upsetting for her. But I dont think Red Sands is 
responsible for Miss Y continuing to pay for her dogs treatment for leishmaniasis. 
Red Sands letter of 28 December 2022 told Miss Y it would no longer cover the condition 
and she could then make decisions about her dogs treatment knowing the condition wasnt 
covered by the policy.
Red Sands has told Miss Y it isnt asking her to repay the costs it mistakenly paid for the 
claims for leishmaniasis, which is fair. Red Sands has paid a substantial amount in vet fees, 
that it didnt need to pay, and in all the circumstances I dont think it would be reasonable for 
me to say it should pay compensation to Miss Y for her loss of expectation, distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman