DRN-1823530
The complaint
Miss B complains that esure Insurance Limited carried our repairs to her car under her motor 
insurance policy before liability had been accepted by the other driver. She wants a refund of 
her policy excess. 
What happened
Miss B was involved in a collision with another driver at a roundabout and her car had 
cosmetic damage. esure explained that if Miss B made a claim, then her £800 policy excess 
would be payable. Miss B said she made it clear that she didnt want her car repaired before 
liability was resolved. But the approved garage called Miss B to say it could start repairs and 
Miss B thought liability had been accepted. The garage then asked her to pay her policy 
excess, but Miss B couldnt afford this. esure said she could pay half this amount. But Miss B 
was unhappy with this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esure 
had handled the claim fairly and reasonably. He thought esure hadnt told Miss B that liability 
had been resolved. He thought it had fairly and reasonably offered to waive half the policy 
excess as it thought the claim would be settled as split liability. He thought esure hadnt 
prejudiced Miss Bs position in taking legal action against the other driver. 
Miss B replied that repairs to her car shouldnt have been started. She thought at the time 
that esure had told the garage to get in contact because the claim had been settled. She 
said it hadnt then told her that she would have to pay her excess.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that this episode has caused Miss B and her partner financial difficulties. I 
can understand that she feels frustrated in having to pay her policy excess before the claim 
was settled. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Miss B asked who had instructed the garage to contact her. Like the investigator, Ive 
listened to the calls between Miss B and esure to understand what happened. When Miss B 
reported the incident, esure gave her the garage details and said it would be in contact 
shortly. I can see that esure emailed Miss B after she reported the incident. This email said it 
had instructed a garage to contact her to collect her car for repairs and a replacement car 
would be made available for their duration. And it said that the £800 policy excess was 
payable on completion.  
I think Miss B was very clear that she didnt want to go ahead with repairs until liability was 
conceded by the other drivers insurer. I think she made it clear that she wanted repairs put 
on hold until the excess was waived. But I think esure also told her that a 50/50 split liability 
settlement would be likely due to the accident circumstances and her excess wouldnt be 
waived. And in esures notes, I can see that repairs were put on hold. 
But the garage contacted Miss B to book in her car for repairs and I think a 
misunderstanding occurred. I think Miss B assumed that this meant that liability had been 
conceded. But esure was still in dispute with the other insurer. Miss B agreed the booking 
with the repairer and esure then confirmed this by text. But I think it didnt confirm to Miss B 
at any stage that liability had been agreed. I think this was Miss Bs assumption and she 
didnt check this with esure before the repairs were made. 
As repairs were then completed to Miss Bs car, I think esure was then entitled to ask her to 
pay her policy excess. This is standard practice in the insurance industry. The policy excess 
is always the first part of a claim to be paid. If the claim is settled as non-fault, then this can 
be reclaimed from the other insurer. As it was, esure thought the most likely outcome would 
be 50/50 split liability. So I think it fairly and reasonably offered to waive half the policy 
excess that it would reclaim from the other insurer. 
So I think esure acted fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. So I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman