DRN-3054069
The complaint
Mr G complains that a used car he got with a conditional sale agreement (CSA) provided by 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr G got this car in in June 2019. A few months later he had trouble with the diesel 
particulate filter (DPF) and the supplying dealer paid for some repairs. About seven months 
after that the clutch, flywheel and DPF had to be replaced. Mr G was concerned about the 
condition of the car so he complained to Moneybarn and an independent expert was 
instructed to provide an opinion.
The expert didnt see the car but he thought the issues complained of were probably due to 
normal wear and likely developed during Mr Gs ownership. He based these findings on the 
cars age and mileage at the point of supply and the distance Mr G was able to travel after 
that. He concluded that the car was probably of satisfactory quality when Mr G got it and 
Moneybarn didnt think it should have to do anything further so Mr G referred the matter to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked at the evidence. He didnt think Moneybarn had done 
anything wrong initially but he revised his opinion after Mr G supplied further information 
from several third party garages (TPGs). The investigator thought the new evidence showed 
the clutch had already been replaced once and the car was badly remapped before Mr G got 
it - causing parts to deteriorate prematurely. He considered the expert might have reached a 
different conclusion if hed known about this  as parts that had already been replaced were 
unlikely to be approaching the end of their natural lifespan. He asked the expert to comment 
but received nothing further.
The investigator thought it was more likely than not the remap had caused the clutch and 
flywheel to fail prematurely and the poor quality of the remap could lead to further issues in 
the future. He was satisfied the car probably wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied and it wasnt reasonably durable. He didnt think Mr G should have to keep the car 
and he recommended Moneybarn should cancel the finance and refund the deposit paid with 
interest along with the cost of repairs  provided Mr G supplied receipts.
Moneybarn didnt agree and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman. In 
summary, Moneybarn says:-
Mr G hasnt shown that any faults present were there at the point of supply;
he hasnt proved when the car was remapped  this could have happened when it 
was in his possession;
Mr G was able to travel about 20,000 miles in the car after supply so its sufficiently 
durable - given it was eight years old and had 84,000 miles on the clock at the 
outset;
its not unreasonable to expect some parts to have been replaced in a car of this age 
and the clutch, flywheel and the DPF are all wear and tear items.
Having considered the relevant information about this complaint I was minded to uphold it. 
My reasons for doing werent quite the same as the investigators and I was minded to reach 
a slightly different outcome. So, I issued a provisional decision on 6 August 2021 to let the 
parties see my provisional conclusions and make further submissions (if they wanted to) 
before I made my final decision. Ive set out below what I decided provisionally - and why - 
and this forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Moneybarn supplied this car to Mr G under a finance agreement and it was obliged, under 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), to ensure (amongst other things) that the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. What amounts to satisfactory quality will vary 
depending on individual circumstances. The quality of goods includes their general state and 
condition as well as other things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability. And goods need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory.
In the case of a used car, it is generally considered reasonable to take the age, cost and 
mileage at the point of supply into account. The car Mr G got here was around eight years 
old, cost about £7,000 and had around 84,000 miles on the clock. As such I think a 
reasonable person would accept that it was likely to have some parts that were worn and 
would need replacing or repairing sooner or later  which is reflected in the lower price paid 
compared to the price of a brand new vehicle.
was the car remapped and when ?
Theres no dispute that this car needed some repairs to the clutch and flywheel in March 
2020. The TPG that replaced these parts found the ones they removed were not original so 
it looks as if theyd already been replaced (at least once) before Mr G got the car. Like the 
investigator, I think this throws some doubt on the experts reasons for concluding that these 
parts probably failed as a result of wear and tear.
The TPG also found the engine was producing more power than expected for the 
specification of this car and the turbo kicks in early when revving. The TPG thought the car 
had been remapped in the past which resulted in damage to the clutch and could cause 
more problems in the future. When he was told this Mr G also took the car to another TPG 
that specialises in remapping. The specialist TPG carried out additional tests and Mr G has 
sent us evidence of the results which show the additional power output and early boost. The 
specialist TPG says the remap was poor and this can cause issues such as those Mr G 
experienced - as well as turbo problems and engine failure.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied the car was probably remapped at some point so 
the power output is higher than the manufacturers specification  and not the same as the 
description of the vehicle in the finance agreement. I cant be certain when the remap took 
place  Mr G says he asked the specialist TPG and it couldnt say. But I think Mr G has been 
fairly clear and consistent in his evidence that the car wasnt remapped after it was supplied to him. Everything hes done  in terms of investigating what was wrong with the car, taking 
it to several different garages for diagnostics and checks and obtaining additional evidence 
when we asked for it - has been consistent with someone who was supplied with a car that 
isnt what he was expecting. On balance, I am minded to find it more likely than not that this 
car was remapped before Mr G got it.
repairs to the clutch and flywheel and the DPF
In light of the evidence from the TPGs, Im satisfied its more likely than not the remap was 
sub-standard and caused undue strain on the clutch and premature wear of this part. So, I 
am minded to find it fair that Moneybarn should refund the £920 cost of the related repairs. It 
looks as if Mr G also paid £45 for investigations/ diagnostics in relation to the remap and I 
think it is fair he should be reimbursed for that cost as well in the circumstances.
Nothing Ive seen suggests however that the remap would impact adversely on the DPF. 
None of the TPGs have referred to the issues with the DPF being due to the remap and I 
cant see why that would be likely - given the nature of this particular part. On balance, 
taking into account the age and mileage of the car at the point of supply  as well as the use 
Mr G had of the car before the DPF unit was replaced in March 2020 - I think its likely this 
issue was the result of normal wear and tear. Im satisfied that Mr G was able to drive the car 
some distance after the DPF was replaced. And, taking everything into account, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to require Moneybarn to reimburse the cost of the DPF related 
repairs.
should Mr G be entitled to reject the car
I understand the current mileage is under 106,000. As far as I can tell Mr G seems to have 
had no problems since March 2020 but I can see why hes worried about the future. He 
thinks the remap is likely to cause premature wear of some other significant parts meaning 
the cars probably not as durable as he expected when he got it. I cant be certain if the 
remap will adversely affect the car going forward but I find it understandable that Mr G is 
concerned about the long term impact. And, given the evidence from the TPGs, Im minded 
to find it is fair that Mr G should be allowed to reject the car.
Even if Id reached a different conclusion about that, I think there are other grounds for Mr G 
to be allowed to reject the car. I say this because Im satisfied the current break horse power 
is 195 or thereabouts whereas the CSA describes the car as having 170ps. I acknowledge 
these two units of measurement arent identical but, for our purposes here, I think its 
reasonable to conclude that this car was probably described inaccurately at the point of 
supply. And Im minded to find its unlikely Mr G would have accepted the car if it wasnt mis- 
described - as the power increase would have highlighted something out of the ordinary had 
been done to the vehicle in the past. I think that would probably put off the average 
purchaser - as, amongst other things, any significant vehicle modification such as a remap 
(even undertaken to a proper standard) would generally have to be declared to insurers and 
lead to increased cost.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that the poor quality remap means this car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr G. But, even if Im wrong about that, 
I think the car was mis-described and its unlikely Mr G would have accepted it and taken out 
the finance if that hadnt happened. On the evidence I have, Im inclined to find it fair and 
reasonable for Mr G to be allowed to reject the car.
I think Moneybarn should end the CSA and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr G  at 
no additional cost to him. A deposit of £1,000 was paid by way of part exchange - according 
to the CSA and the sale invoice  and I consider Moneybarn should refund that. I think it would also be fair for Moneybarn to reimburse Mr G for the cost of repairs to the clutch and 
flywheel and diagnostic checks, for the reasons Ive set out above.
I think it is reasonable for Moneybarn to retain the monthly payments made while Mr G had 
the use of the car. I understand the current mileage is under 106,000 - so he was able to 
drive it most of the time. I understand Mr G hasnt travelled far since the MOT in November 
2020 but he told us this was due to the pandemic and I cant fairly hold Moneybarn 
responsible for that. However it looks as if the car was off the road for two months in or 
about March 2020 due to problems with the clutch and flywheel. And, in light of my findings 
about these repairs above, Im inclined to find Moneybarn should refund two months finance 
payments for the associated loss of use.
I consider Moneybarn should pay interest on all refunds and, if it has recorded any adverse 
information about the CSA against Mr Gs credit file, that should be removed. I think Mr G 
has probably experienced a good deal of distress and inconvenience as a result of being 
supplied with this car. I can see it broke down and had to be recovered and Mr G was put to 
some time and trouble taking it to various garages for investigations and repairs. I am 
minded to find it fair for Moneybarn to pay Mr G £250 compensation to reflect that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
evidence or comments (that we hadnt seen before) by 20 August 2021. I explained I would 
consider all the available evidence after that and make my final decision.
Moneybarn hasnt objected to my provisional conclusions or provided any further 
submissions. Mr G accepts my provisional decision overall but he thinks he should have 
more than two months finance payments refunded. He has supplied further evidence and set 
out his reasons over several emails. I hope hell understand that Ive had to summarise what 
he told us below. 
Mr G says he would usually cover between 8,000 and 9,000 miles a year but hes only 
driven about 1,000 miles in this car since last November. Hes avoided using the car when 
possible because hes concerned it might break down again and he didnt want to put more 
miles on it  he has access to some alternative transport so he only uses this car if thats 
unavailable. 
I understand Mr G feels strongly that he should have an additional refund here because he 
didnt use the car as much as he otherwise would. But, Im afraid that nothing hes said or 
sent has persuaded me to change my mind and Ill explain why. 
Mr G acquired the car in June 2019 with 84,000 miles on the clock and Im satisfied he was 
able to drive it over 20,000 miles after that. I appreciate Mr G says he only covered about 
1,000 miles over the past year or so. I can see the mileage at the MOT in November 2020 
was around 104,000 miles and the mileage in August was about 105,000. So it looks as if Mr 
G has driven the car less in the last 12 months that he did previously. 
But, Ive seen nothing to show that Mr G was told the car was unsafe or otherwise shouldnt 
be driven. Hes told us already that he drove the car less due to the pandemic. And, whilst I 
appreciate Mr G may have been reluctant to put more miles on the car because of what 
happened before, I think he seems to have been able to use it when needed over the past 
year  if his alternative transport wasnt available. On balance, Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to require Moneybarn to refund more than two months 
instalments. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I remain of the view Mr G to be allowed to reject the car and 
Moneybarn should take the steps set out to put things right. I realise this decision may come 
as a disappointment to Mr G but hes not obliged to accept what Ive said  in which case it 
remains open to him to pursue the matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and require Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to:-
1. cancel the CSA and arrange to take the car back at no additional cost to Mr G;
2. refund the deposit paid of £1,000;
3. refund two monthly finance payments for the time Mr G was without the use of the 
car;
4. refund £965 for repairs to the clutch and flywheel and diagnostic checks (as detailed 
above);
5. pay interest on any refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
6. remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file about the CSA; and 
7. pay Mr G £250 compensation for associated distress and inconvenience.
If Moneybarn considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman