DRN-2159164
The complaint
Mrs S complains that St James Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) didnt make her aware 
she would have to pay for the advice it gave her when it recommended she transfer her 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits to a retirement account with it. Mrs S accepted 
this advice and was charged a fee. She wants SJP to refund this fee and waive any charges 
that may be payable to transfer her pension fund away from SJP. She also complains that 
SJPs advisor didnt inform her that he was not an independent financial advisor. 
What happened
In May 2018, Mrs S and her husband met with a SJP financial advisor, to discuss their 
financial position. Mrs S had three OPSs with previous employers. Mr and Mrs S told the 
advisor they wanted the meeting to focus on their retirement planning. A fact find interview 
was conducted to assess their financial objectives and circumstances.
Mrs S and her husband met again with the SJP advisor in September 2018. Following that 
meeting, SJP recommended Mrs S consolidate and transfer her OPS monies into a SJP 
retirement account. Mrs S accepted the recommendation and her OPS monies were 
transferred into a SJP retirement account set up in her name.
Mrs S later learnt that shed had an advice charge deducted from her new pension fund 
upon transfer. She complained to SJP about this in April 2019. Mrs Ss husband also 
complained to SJP about the same thing. They said they were misled by the SJP advisor at 
the meetings he had with them. Mrs S said they were also not made aware that the SJP 
advisor was not an independent financial advisor. Mrs S said she and her husband were told 
by SJPs advisor that he wouldnt take a fee, and that he got payment from their portfolio 
when they chose to work with him. Mrs S said the initial and annual charges payable were 
not explained to them.
Mrs S said that as a result of her and her husband being overloaded with information at the 
meetings they had with SJP, they werent given clear information. And that they still didnt 
understand the charges payable and the implications of what SJP were saying was payable.
Mrs S said she asked SJP for a clear breakdown of all the charges. She says these werent 
provided initially. Further, Mrs S asked SJP to waive any penalties payable to transfer her 
pension away from SJP. She also asked SJP to refund all the charges that it had been paid 
out of her pension fund.
SJP didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. It said the charges were clearly set out in the 
paperwork Mr and Mrs S were provided with at the time. It said it was reasonable to expect 
clients to read all the information provided before signing the declaration and accepting the 
recommendation.
But, as a gesture of goodwill, SJP offered to waive the early withdrawal charges (EWC)    
Mrs S would be charged for transferring her pension to another provider. It also agreed to 
pay her £250 to recognise the fact there had been a delay providing her with a breakdown of 
all the charges.
Mrs S didnt accept SJPs offer of settlement and referred her complaint to our service. Mr S 
also referred his complaint about this to our service. I have dealt with each of their 
complaints separately. To put matters right, Mrs S wants SJP to refund the initial advice fee, 
on top of what it has already offered.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint and concluded that SJPs offer of settlement 
was fair and reasonable, and that he couldnt fairly require SJP to pay more. He took the 
view that SJP had told Mrs S about the charges payable and that the advisor was not 
independent financial advisor and was providing restricted advice only.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said, in summary:
they were completely misled and lied to by the SJP advisor from the original meeting 
through to signing the paperwork;
the advisor said he was completely independent. He said he was not bound to work 
within any particular framework or with any particular investments;
the advisor said his initial advice was completely free, they trusted what he said. He 
said he would only be paid once the investments were in place and he would be paid 
twice yearly based on their investment choices;
they did not talk through the key facts document at the meeting when they signed up;
they were given a mountain of paperwork by SJP, enough to fill up a double ring 
binder. The paperwork was full of financial jargon. They accept now it was foolhardy 
not to go through the paperwork in detail. But, its not fair that this mistake should 
cost them thousands of pounds in hard earned pension investments;
the advisor was very reluctant to provide details of the charges that had been taken 
out the fund and only provided these after being pressed to do so;
whilst they accept they were nave, they are offended by the advisor and SJP 
keeping their money gained through deceit; and
they do not seek compensation and question why if SJP consider their advisor acted 
professionally, compensation is being offered. They just want their investments 
returned to their original value.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mrs S complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator and do not uphold 
this complaint. 
 
As explained by our investigator, where discussions take place, it is not always clear what 
exactly was discussed. So, where some of the evidence is either incomplete or 
contradictory, I have to make a decision about what I think is most likely to have happened  
based on whats available. So, here, as well as taking into account what both parties have 
said was discussed, Ive also looked at the paperwork from the time, which can provide a 
record of what was recorded in writing about a discussion. 
Mrs S strongly believes that the SJP advisor told her something different in conversation to 
what is recorded in the paperwork. 
did the advisor tell Mrs S that he was an independent financial advisor?
Ive looked at the key facts document Mrs S was given telling her about SJPs services and 
costs. This document listed the service provided and the cost for providing it.
Under the heading Investment on the form it listed 3 advice options, independent, restricted 
and no advice. The restricted advice option was selected. It said this:  
 We will advise and make a recommendation for you after we have assessed your needs. 
We only offer products from a limited number of companies. You may ask us for a list of the 
companies whose products we offer.
Looking at the paperwork I think it was clearly flagged that the advisor was not looking 
across the full range of investment products on offer, but only looking at a limited number of 
companies. So, I cant see from the paperwork that Mrs S was misled by SJP into believing 
that she was being provided with independent advice. I think this was explained in a clear 
simple way and prominent way. 
I think it was reasonable to expect Mrs S to read through the paperwork she was provided 
with and to expect her to clarify anything she wasnt clear about, or that was incorrectly 
recorded.
Were the costs of the services clearly explained?
The key facts document also said this:
What will you have to pay us for our services?
Neither our advice nor our products are free You will pay us charges for both The details of 
these charges will be discussed with you and set out in detail on the personalised 
illustration we will give to you
If you decide to invest a lump sum with us, the cost of the initial advice and our services will 
be 4.5% of the amount you invest.
How our advice is paid for - If you decide to invest with St Jamess Place, the
costs of our initial and ongoing advice are paid for out of your investment. The specific 
amount of the advice charge is set out in the personalised illustration that we will provide and 
discuss with you at the time you make your investment.. Like our investigator, Ive also looked at the illustration, and suitability letter SJP gave Mrs S. 
These documents explain all the costs applicable for the advice given and how they are 
applied. So, it seems to me that Mrs S was given the same information about the costs in a 
number of different documents.
The declaration Mrs S signed and agreed to at the time of advice said, just above where she 
signed:
I understand that the advice I receive is not free and I agree to the payment of
advice charges from my investment as referred to above
So, I think it was also made clear in the paperwork what charges would be payable. Mrs S 
accepts now that it was perhaps foolhardy not to have considered the documents she was 
provided with in greater detail at the time. Had she done so, I think any misunderstanding or 
disagreement about the charges payable for the initial advice couldve been addressed at 
the time and prior to transfer. So, I cant fairly hold SJP responsible here. 
Was Mrs S unfairly overloaded with information?
Having looked at the paperwork Mrs S was provided with, I can see there is a lot of 
information. But, Mrs S was making an important decision about how to invest her pension 
going forward, and I cant see that any unnecessary or irrelevant information was provided 
so as to divert her focus. Also, I think the information she was provided with about restricted 
advice and the charges payable was set out clearly, simply and prominently in the 
documents she was given to review and had she read through the information, this wouldve 
been readily apparent.
I dont therefore uphold Mrs Ss complaint because I think she was given clear and fair 
information about the charges and the service that was being provided,
So, taking all of this into account, I think SJPs offer of settlement is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances to acknowledge the upset caused to Mrs S by not being provided with the 
charges information later when she asked for it. So, I do not make any further award.
My final decision
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc has already made an offer to pay Mrs S £250 to 
settle this complaint and has agreed to waive the early withdrawal charges. I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should pay Mrs S £250. I 
leave Mrs S to decide whether she wants to accept the offer made in relation to the early 
withdrawal charges .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman