DRN-4167580
The complaint
Mrs S, acting on behalf of the estate of Ms H, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc (RBS) hasnt provided the service it should have.
What happened
Mrs S is the executor to the estate of Ms H. Ms H had a bank account with RBS which 
needed to be administered to pay Ms Hs debts and make payments to Ms Hs beneficiaries. 
Mrs S returned to the UK to carry out her role as executor and completed a form in branch 
requesting the funds be sent to her UK account as she thought this would happen within a 
week. However, she then realised the funds wouldnt clear before her return overseas and 
so she returned to the bank to complete a second set of paperwork with her overseas 
account details. She says she was told her initial paperwork had been destroyed.
Mrs S returned overseas and uploaded various document to the Bereavement Service Portal 
and as there was no further contact from the bank, she chased this up by phone and online 
chat. Mrs S says she was then told the payment would be made within three days and she 
reiterated that this needed to go to her overseas account, and this was confirmed. But the 
money was then released to Mrs Ss UK account. Mrs S says she cannot access her UK 
account without visiting the branch or having a letter sent to a UK address which isnt 
possible as she lives overseas. Mrs S says this issue has caused her a great deal of stress 
and inconvenience. 
RBS issued a final response letter dated 8 December 2022. It accepted that it hadnt 
provided the service it should have, and it used the incorrect closure instruction and sent 
funds to Mrs Ss UK account. It said this happened due to human error and it awarded Mrs S 
£250 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this matter caused her. 
It sent Mrs S a cheque for £300 to cover the compensation and any charges she may incur 
paying this into an overseas account. In regard to the funds, it said that as these had been 
released to Mrs Ss UK account with another bank it wasnt able to move these back and 
that Mrs S would need to contact her UK bank to arrange for the money to be sent to her 
overseas account. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted that RBS had accepted the mistake 
that had been made. He explained that because the complainant in this case is the estate of 
Ms H, we couldnt award any compensation for distress and inconvenience as the estate, as 
a legal entity wasnt able to suffer distress and inconvenience. He noted the award made to 
Mrs S by RBS and said it would be reasonable that this is paid. Our investigator said while 
RBS had made a mistake the funds had been released to an open/active account in Mrs Ss 
name and that these wouldnt be able to be recalled without the authority of the beneficiary 
account owner. 
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators view. She said the UK account wasnt fully active. It 
wasnt set up for internet banking and she couldnt access the funds. She said she contacted 
her UK bank and was told to access the funds she would need to have a letter sent to a UK 
address to setup internet banking. She said she couldnt return to the UK due to her 
commitments, but she needed to access the funds to ensure these were disbursed in a 
timely manner. Mrs S says a family member visited the UK to get the letter  a trip that cost 
a lot of money and required the family member to take time off work. She responded to our 
investigators comments about not awarding compensation to the estate and said her role as 
executor had caused a great deal of stress and upset. She said the cheque provided by RBS 
was returned by registered post in December 2022 because her overseas account wouldnt 
accept international cheques. 
Our investigator responded to Mrs Ss comments. He reiterated the situation regarding the 
award of compensation. 
Mrs S said that she had incurred costs accessing the money from her UK account which 
were a direct result of the mistake made by RBS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the upset and inconvenience Mrs S experienced in her role as the 
executor of Ms Hs estate. I appreciate the pressure she will have felt to ensure she had 
access to the funds from the estate to pay any debts and to make the transfers to the 
beneficiaries. 
Mrs S has explained that while she did initially complete the forms for a transfer to her UK 
account, due to the time that it would take to have the funds released she then completed 
new forms for the money to be released to her overseas account. She asked for the initial 
forms to be destroyed and was told this had happened. I requested copies of the calls that 
took place, but these havent been able to be provided. That said, RBS has accepted that it 
made a mistake when it released the funds from the late Ms Hs account to Mrs Ss UK 
account rather than her overseas account.  
When a mistake has been made, we would expect the bank to put the consumer back in the 
position they would have been had the mistake not been made. In this case RBS released 
the money from the late Ms Hs account to Mrs Ss UK account. This was an open account in 
Mrs Ss name, and she did receive the money. Unfortunately, once the money had been 
released RBS wasnt able to recall these funds. Instead, Mrs S as the beneficiary needed to 
contact the bank that she had received the funds at.
Mrs S has explained that she didnt have internet banking on her UK account and the only 
way she could access the money was to go to the branch or receive a letter to a UK address 
to set up internet banking. Neither of these options were practical as Mrs S was overseas. 
Mrs S spent time trying to resolve this complaint which caused her stress and 
inconvenience.
While I do not underestimate the upset this issue caused Mrs S, this complaint is about the 
money transferred from the estate of Ms H. Therefore, the complainant in this case is the 
estate of Ms H. While Mrs S has brought the complaint as the executor of the estate, she 
isnt the complainant. We can only make awards to eligible complainants and so I cannot 
make an award of compensation to Mrs S as the executor for the upset and inconvenience 
she has incurred when representing the deceased. RBS did award compensation to Mrs S in 
the form of a cheque which she received. I would expect this compensation amount to be 
honoured by RBS and note Mrs Ss comments about returning the cheque and her bank not 
accepting international cheques. As I am not able to consider compensation for Mrs S, I 
would suggest she speak to RBS directly about this if she wishes the compensation amount 
be paid in another form.Overall, I find that RBS did accept the mistake that had been made and explained why it 
couldnt recall the money. The money was sent to Mrs S, but to the wrong account, and I can 
see this caused her stress and inconvenience but as Mrs S isnt the complainant in this 
case, I am not able to award her compensation because of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms H 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman