DRN-4310821
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has
handled a claim under their home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs S are being represented on this complaint. For ease of reading, Im going to
refer to Mr S throughout my decision, but any reference to him also includes the comments
of his representative. Likewise, any reference to RSA includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties and arent in dispute. So,
Ive summarised events.
Mr S has a home insurance policy which is underwritten by RSA. In January 2019, he
sought to make a claim under the policy having noticed cracks in his propertys walls.
RSA accepted the claim. It identified that a water pipe, owned by the local water
board, had been damaged which had caused an escape of water. The drain was
repaired, and RSA monitored Mr S property for movement.
In October 2019, RSA provided a schedule of work for repairs to the property. But Mr
S says the claim didnt progress after this.
In March 2020, the claim was paused because of Covid-19 restrictions. Around this
time, RSA offered Mr S a cash settlement as he was concerned about having
contractors in his home at the time.
A settlement figure couldnt be agreed between the parties and in August 2020, Mr S
raised concerns with RSA about further movement to his property. RSA agreed to
carry out further monitoring.
In April 2021, RSA discussed the possibility of alternative accommodation with Mr S,
saying the repairs would likely take between four to six weeks. But that before these
could start, it needed the results of tests for possible asbestos.
Unhappy with the lack of progress and the scope of works, Mr S, appointed a loss
assessor, L, in October 2021, to manage the claim on his behalf.
L challenged the scope of works and asked for further investigations to be carried out
to the dining rooms sub-floor.
From October 2021 to September 2022, L highlighted that various works had been
omitted from RSAs scope of works. It added that it wasnt a fair settlement because
it wasnt reflective of increased costs for labour and materials. It also raised how the
claim was having a detrimental impact on Mr and Mrs S well-being.
In September 2022, RSA accepted the cause of movement had been incorrectly
diagnosed as an escape of water emanating from the damaged drain.
RSA agreed to carry out further site investigations and has said that depending on
the outcome of this, it would look to arrange an arborist report to obtain
recommendations for tree works - as its thought this might be the cause of
movement to Mr S property.
In its final response RSA acknowledged that it had found many of Ls points to be
valid. And it paid £2,000 compensation to recognise the difficulties he and Mrs S had
experienced.
Unhappy with the resolution, Mr S brought a complaint to this Service. An
Investigator considered it and said she thought the compensation offered was fair
and that the proposed steps RSA said it would take were reasonable.
Mr S disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans
decision.
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claims handling
The Insurance Code of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to handle claims
promptly and fairly. RSA has accepted its failure to carry out adequate investigations led to
the cause of damage to Mr S property being misdiagnosed, which in turn caused delays of
approximately three years or so. So, Im satisfied it hasnt met these obligations. But given
RSA has acknowledged its handling of the claim has fallen short, I dont consider it
necessary to detail and comment on every aspect of this. Ultimately, this isnt whats in
dispute, its the impact of these shortcomings on Mr and Mrs S which is.
But before I turn to that, Ive read the steps RSA has proposed it takes to move the claim
forwards. Mr S has confirmed RSA is working with L to establish the cause of the damage
and what remedial works are required. Im satisfied these steps are reasonable and so I
wont be commenting further on this other than to say if Mr S has any concerns about RSAs
handling of his claim following its most recent final response letter, hell need to make a new
complaint to RSA before referring the matter to this Service.
Compensation
RSA has paid £2,000 compensation to Mr S to recognise the difficulties he and Mrs S have
experienced because of its claim handling. But Mr S doesnt consider this amount to suitably
reflect the problems he and Mrs S have faced. And its this I need to decide.
Whilst its not entirely clear how much of an impact the pandemic had on RSAs ability to
progress the claim, it seems to have accepted it caused three years of delays  and has said
that having initially misdiagnosed the cause of damage, the claim has essentially had to start
from scratch in September 2022.
Understandably, having to live in a property where more than half of it is damaged, for aperiod of four years, would be distressing for anyone. But, owing to Mr and Mrs S age and
mobility issues, they have felt considerably more vulnerable as a result.
Whilst some inconvenience is reasonably to be expected with a claim like this, its apparent
RSAs handling of it  particularly, its lack of progression  has had a detrimental impact on
Mrs S mental health and Mr and Mrs S physical well-being. Mr S has said that he and his
wife havent been able to have family and friends visit because of the state of their property,
which has left them feeling isolated.
Mr S has said he intended on selling his property so he and Mrs S could move into a
bungalow as navigating the stairs had become difficult  and with the only bathroom being
upstairs this continues to be a problem for them. However, because of the ongoing claim,
hes not been able to proceed with his plans to market his home. Whilst I cant say with
certainty Mr S would have successfully sold his property during this time, the disappointment
of not being able to proceed with his plans, together with a general uncertainty as to the
when his property will be repaired, coupled with further investigations being carried out,
needs to be recognised.
Whilst I recognise both Mr S representative and L have dealt with RSA during the claim
therefore, lessening some of the impact of its poor claims handling, I dont consider £2,000
reasonably reflects the inconvenience and distress he and Mrs S have incurred because of
RSAs avoidable delays. And so, I intend to direct RSA to pay an additional £1,000
compensation.
Loss assessors fees
Its up to a policy holder to decide if they want to appoint a Loss Assessor to manage a claim
on their behalf. And the cost of doing so isnt normally met by the insurer. But here, I
consider it reasonable to ask RSA to pay towards some of Ls costs, and Ill explain why.
Mr S appointed L approximately 20 months after the claim was reported and he did so
because he was frustrated with how his claim was being progressed and the scope of works
presented by RSA. And it seems to me Mr S only did so due to RSAs mistakes and failings
 of which it has now acknowledged.
In its final response, RSA has accepted that many of Ls findings were valid, and it appears
RSAs decision to carry out further site investigations and look at the claim again is directly
related to Ls involvement. Because Im satisfied Ls involvement has been material to the
outcome of the claim, I consider it fair to direct RSA to cover any reasonable loss assessor
fees or associated costs which relate to the claim  up until the date of its final response
letter in October 2022.
To be clear, I wouldnt expect RSA to do this with every claim where a loss assessor is
involved, but in the particular circumstances of this case, Im persuaded its reasonable. I say
this because first, Im satisfied Mr S had no other option but to appoint L to progress his
claim and second, L has materially impacted the claim going forwards.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun
Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Pay an additional £1,000 compensation.
Pay Ls reasonable costs  subject to proof of receipt - for the period up until and
including the date of RSAs final response letter dated 5 October 2022. Royal & SunAlliance Insurance Limited should pay simple interest at 8% a year from the date Mr
and Mrs S made payment to L (if theyve done so already) to the date it is refunded. I
invite Mr and Mrs S to submit these costs to this Service and RSA following this 
decision.
RSA didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr S did  he provided pictures showing the 
condition of his property and added further comments. In summary he said the delays have 
impacted his and Mrs S health. Mrs S blood pressure has increased due to the stress of the 
situation  this is of concern as she suffers from a heart condition which shes due to have 
surgery for. Mr S has also had to use medication for angina, something he says he hasnt 
had to do for a long time. 
Mr S has said that whilst RSA has agreed to cover storage costs for their items, hes asked if 
RSA can pay for a removal company to pack their items which are due to be put in storage 
as he and Mrs S are not physically well enough to do this themselves. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not departing from the provisional decision I reached. In concluding that 
RSA needed to pay an additional £1,000 compensation I considered the impact of its actions 
on Mr and Mrs S  keeping in mind their specific circumstances regarding their health 
conditions. So, whilst I acknowledge RSAs failings had a greater impact on them, Im 
satisfied compensation totalling £3,000 is reasonable. 
Mr S has asked for RSA to cover the costs of having his possessions packed for storage due 
to him and Mrs S being physically unable to do so. Because the claim is ongoing, I dont 
intend to intervene and direct RSA as to what it should do with the claim, however, I would it 
expect it to consider Mr S request to have the cost of packing his goods covered.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs S an additional £1,000 compensation.
Pay Ls reasonable costs  subject to proof of receipt - for the period up until and
including the date of RSAs final response letter dated 5 October 2022. Royal & Sun
Alliance Insurance Limited should pay simple interest at 8% a year from the date Mr
and Mrs S made payment to L (if theyve done so already) to the date it is refunded. I
invite Mr and Mrs S to submit these costs to this Service and RSA following this 
decision.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman