DRN-4177505
The complaint
A company which Ill call Z complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt transfer the correct 
amount when they made several international payments. 
The complaint is brought on Zs behalf by their director, Miss C.
What happened
On 1 July 2022, Z made four international payments to a beneficiary. They made a further 
three payments for the same amount and to the same beneficiary on 24 July 2022. These 
payments were to be received by the beneficiary in US Dollars (USD) using HSBCs 
exchange rate at the time, which Z had agreed to. 
Z told us: 
All seven payments had been made in the same way, but the beneficiary had 
received less than expected on five payments. They believed the bank hadnt 
followed their instructions correctly.
Theyd had to make a further payment to cover the shortfall to the beneficiary of 
around $2000 which they wanted HSBC to refund.
HSBC told us: 
The five payments had been converted into Canadian Dollars (CAD) and then back 
into USD by the intermediary bank which had processed the payments as the 
payments were going to Canada.
Z had selected different options for the fees to be paid on the payments  some said 
all fees were to be paid by them as the sender, and some said HSBC fees only. 
It had provided Z with the exchange rate it would use but it had no control over the 
actions of the intermediary bank and therefore werent liable for any exchange rate 
losses.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the terms and 
conditions of Zs account with HSBC said that if the bank used an intermediary to make 
payments, the intermediary would use its standard exchange rate on the day the payment 
was made to convert it into the foreign currency, and HSBC wasnt responsible for this. She 
also said the terms of Zs account said that they would be responsible for paying any fees or 
costs that were due, not HSBC. So she didnt think the bank had done anything wrong.  
Z didnt agree. They said the intermediary worked for HSBC and shouldnt have transferred 
the payments into CAD and back to USD, so they asked for an ombudsman to review their 
complaint and the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Z is unhappy that their beneficiary didnt receive the full amount for some of the international 
payments theyd sent, as these werent any different from the ones where the full amount 
had been received. But I dont agree. Ive seen that for the five payments where the 
beneficiary didnt receive the full amount, Z input on the payments that they only wanted to 
pay HSBCs fees  not all the fees. Ive also looked at payment receipts which Zs 
beneficiary received, and I can see there are different exchange rates being applied to these 
particular transactions as the payments are made into CAD and then back into USD. I 
recognise this would have been frustrating for Z as they believed the payments were all 
submitted in the same way, but I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for how Z input 
the payment request. 
Looking at the statements, it appears that because the all the fees on these five payments 
werent being paid by Z, they had to be sent via an intermediary bank, transaction charges 
and exchange rate changes would be payable. As HSBC didnt have any involvement in 
both how the payment was submitted, or which intermediary bank was used, I cant 
reasonably hold them responsible for any charges which were deducted by an intermediary 
bank. 
I recognise that Z believes the intermediary bank works on HSBCs behalf, but dont agree 
as any intermediary bank would simply be enabling HSBC to make the payment its customer 
has requested. HSBCs terms make clear that both the intermediary bank and the 
beneficiary bank may impose charges on the international payment and that this is outside 
its control. So, I think Z ought to have reasonably been aware that there was a possibility 
HSBC would need to involve an intermediary bank in the international payment, and that it 
was possible a fee would be charged by them so their beneficiary may not receive the full 
payment they had requested.
I recognise that Z is unhappy about this, and they will be disappointed with my decision. But 
based on everything Ive seen, I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong, so I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman