DRN-2376263
The complaint
Ms E complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms E had a Home Care policy with British Gas. This covered her central heating, plumbing 
and electrical systems.
She made a claim in December 2019, when she was experiencing problems with her boiler. 
British Gas arranged for an engineer to visit.
Ms E tells us there were issues with the engineers visit. Shed arranged childcare (at a cost 
of £20) for the agreed time, but the engineer didnt attend. He then attended at a time Ms E 
had said she wasnt available. Ms E had to arrange for a relative to travel some distance (at 
a cost of £20) to assist.
The engineer said the boiler was too big for him to deal with. Ms E says he advised her she 
needed a commercial policy with British Gas to cover her boiler, given its size. 
Ms E has two boilers  one is a back-up and isnt used. She says the engineers view was 
that the added capacity of the two boilers took the repair outside his sphere of operation.
Ms E says she cancelled her Home Care policy and took out a commercial policy with British 
Gas on the advice of the engineer. And about a week later, a commercial engineer attended 
and told Ms E a commercial policy wasnt suitable for her. Ms E doesnt run a business from 
or at her home. Having realised the policy wasnt suitable, she tried to cancel it. 
She says the commercial policy was eventually cancelled. But only after around two months 
of her chasing British Gas. Since it was cancelled, theyve continued to chase her for an 
outstanding balance, which appears to be either a cancellation fee and/or the cost of the 
commercial engineers repairs to her boiler.
Ms E complained to British Gas. She believed shed been mis-advised by the engineer about 
which policy was appropriate for her. And she thought it was inappropriate for British Gas to 
pursue her for any outstanding balance on a policy she should never have had.
Ms E wasnt happy with British Gas response, because they didnt address her complaint 
points, so she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought British Gas had mis-advised Ms E when they told 
her she should have a commercial policy. She thought £100 compensation would be 
appropriate in all the circumstances. She pointed out that we couldnt look into the poor 
service provided by British Gas commercial arm, which is a separate company and not 
regulated because it doesnt provide regulated financial services.
British Gas disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They didnt think 
theyd mis-advised Ms E.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I need to be clear about what we can and cant look into. Because the company 
which provided the commercial policy doesnt provide financial services and isnt regulated 
(were told the policy Ms E bought and then cancelled was a service and maintenance 
contract effectively, not an insurance policy), we cant look into what they did or the customer 
service they provided to Ms E.
When we first contacted British Gas about Ms Es complaint, they took the view that meant 
we couldnt look into the complaint at all. And that led to some delays in progressing the 
matter because British Gas wouldnt provide us with the information wed requested.
That line of argument is clearly wrong. Ms E was a customer of British Gas and paid for 
cover under their Home Care policy. British Gas engineer attended Ms Es home on that 
basis. And he advised her she needed a commercial policy. 
So, we can look into what happened when the engineer visited Ms E. If she was mis-advised 
- and Ill turn to that question presently  then it was that mistake, made by British Gas, 
which led to Ms E cancelling her Home Care policy and taking out an inappropriate 
commercial policy in its place. 
Although we cant look directly into what British Gas commercial partner company did, we 
can say that Ms E would never have experienced any issues with them but for the fact that 
British Gas mis-advised her about what kind of policy she needed.
Throughout their communications with Ms E  and throughout their communications with us 
until very recently  British Gas have maintained that Ms E wasnt mis-advised by their 
engineer. And that she should have had a commercial policy, not a domestic (Home Care) 
policy.
I have absolutely no doubt that Ms E was advised by the engineer that she needed a 
commercial policy.
The engineers notes of the visit say, advised commercial. 
Ms E clearly recollects being advised that the engineer couldnt deal with her boiler under 
her Home Care policy and that she heeded a commercial one. And if theres any doubt 
whether thats the impression she got, she immediately cancelled her Home Care policy and 
bought a commercial one.
And British Gas have maintained for some considerable time that that advice was correct. 
Not only when Ms E raised it with them, but when we asked them. If British Gas took that 
line in response to a complaint raised with our service, it wouldnt be entirely surprising if one 
of their engineers took that line with Ms E.
British Gas even sent us a copy of what they say is their standard operating procedure in 
defence of that line of argument.
It was only when we queried that  on the basis that the operating procedure seems to say 
the exact opposite  that British Gas have finally admitted that a commercial policy was in 
fact unsuitable for Ms E.That standard procedure document tells us what should have happened when the engineer 
attended Ms Es home. It says that when confronted with a boiler above a certain size, the 
Home Care engineer should place a request for a commercial engineer to attend. And once 
the commercial engineer has attended and carried out any repairs to the boiler, the costs 
associated with that will be re-charged, within the business group, to British Gas Insurance 
Limited.
So, British Gas Insurance Limiteds Home Care policy did cover Ms Es boiler repairs all 
along - or should have, at least. Their engineer simply had to request a commercial engineer 
to attend under the relevant standard operating procedure. 
In my view, its a shame its taken considerably more than a year for Ms E to get to the 
bottom of this matter  and that shes only done so after we had to intervene. It should have 
been reasonably clear to British Gas at the outset that Ms E had been mis-advised  by their 
own engineer.
Putting things right
British Gas have now assured us that Ms E isnt being chased for any outstanding balance 
on any of the policies she held with British Gas or their partner company.
Theyve also said shes had the boiler repairs for free  which she wouldnt be entitled to if 
shes cancelled her policy. 
In my view, its unfair and clearly mistaken to regard that as part of any compensation Ms E 
might be due. If she hadnt been mis-advised, she wouldnt have cancelled her Home Care 
policy  at least not at that time  and she would have been covered for the repairs.
Im not going to go into all the detail about British Gas dealings with Ms E over her claim and 
her subsequent attempts to clarify what happened and why. Suffice to say, British Gas 
customer service has been some way short of what theyd aspire to. Not least because 
theyve maintained a line  with Ms E and then with us  which has now been shown to be 
completely mistaken and misleading.
I dont need to go into the detail because British Gas have now agreed with my proposal that 
they should pay Ms E £500 for her trouble and upset in this case. This is a significant 
increase over the amount our investigator suggested initially but given whats come to light 
since she offered her view, I believe its justified. And British Gas agree with me.
In short, in my view, the £500 award is justified for the following reasons. 
Ms Es attempts to get British Gas to deal with her situation have been ongoing for around 
15 months. 
In addition to the initial customer service issues she experienced when her appointment was 
cancelled then rearranged for a time that wasnt convenient for her, shes been advised to 
take out a policy entirely unsuitable for her.
This has caused her great frustration and concern. Shes had the worry of what the 
consequences might be for her if she didnt pay the outstanding balance on a policy she 
should never have taken out. When it should have been obvious from the outset to all 
concerned that shed been mis-advised to buy that policy.Its apparent that British Gas made a mistake at the outset. Yet they repeatedly failed to 
address Ms Es concerns effectively and recognise their error. This has been extremely 
frustrating and upsetting for Ms E.
To be absolutely clear, the £500 Im awarding now includes the £40 of costs incurred by 
Ms E when the initial visit by the engineer was cancelled and then re-arranged at an 
inconvenient time for Ms E. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Es complaint. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Ms E £500 for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman