DRN-2814200
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that he wasnt told that his savings would be held as security for his loan
with Blantyre Credit Union Limited.
Blantyre Credit Union Limited trade as Lanarkshire Credit Union. For ease, Ive just referred
to Blantyre.
What happened
On 4 June 2019, Mr R took out a loan with Blantyre for home improvements.
On 26 June 2019, Mr R contacted Blantyre because he couldnt access the savings 
he held with them. He needed these for a family holiday booked for 6 July 2019. 
Blantyre said that was because his savings were held as security for his loan.
Mr R raised a complaint that he wasnt told about this when he took out the loan. And 
because he had already used the loan to pay for the home improvements, he had to 
cancel his family holiday.
Blantyre said it was explained in the credit agreement. It also agreed to release half 
of his savings, although I understand it was too late at that point for them to be used 
for the planned holiday.
Unhappy with Blantyres response, Mr R raised his concerns with our service. In April 
2021, I provisionally decided to uphold the complaint  and I explained my intention 
to ask Blantyre to pay Mr R £350 for his distress and inconvenience. 
Mr R accepted my findings. Blantyre disagreed  it said it provided the relevant 
information well before he signed the loan agreement. And that it went above and 
beyond by allowing him access to half his savings, which exposed Blantyre to greater 
risk. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Blantyres response carefully, Ive not changed my mind about the 
outcome to this complaint. While the information about the security was mentioned in the 
credit agreement, I dont think it was clear for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision. And the Credit Agreement Checklist didnt specifically mention the security either. 
So I dont think that added the needed clarity.
I recognise Blantryes efforts to help by releasing half his savings. But I dont think that was 
enough to put things right, given the impact the security had on Mr R.
So, I still uphold Mr Rs complaint and Im satisfied that £350 is fair compensation. For 
completeness, Ive explained my reasoning from the provisional decision below: 
Ive reviewed Mr Rs credit agreement. Under the declaration of borrower(s) and 
signatures to agreement, it says: I/we hereby pledge all paid shares, all payments 
on account of shares and all deposits, which I/we have now or hereafter may have in 
the Credit Union as security for repayments of the Loan together with interest, costs 
and expenses and I/we hereby authorise the Credit Union to apply any and all such 
paid shares, payment on account of shares or deposits to the payment of said Loan, 
interest, costs and Expenses.
This condition is part of several conditions in the declaration, which are all in small 
print. So I dont think it was highlighted to Mr R. And Im not satisfied that its written 
in a way where its clear that not only could Mr Rs savings be used if he didnt repay 
the loan as agreed but crucially, that he wouldnt be able to access them until his 
loan was repaid.
Ive also reviewed Mr Rs application and the Credit Agreement Checklist. These 
also dont explain how Mr Rs savings will be affected. Indeed, I note Mr Rs 
application was for an unsecured loan. 
It follows that I think Blantyre shouldve done more to clearly explain the loans 
required security.
Ive considered whats likely to have happened if Blantyre had explained this clearly. 
Mr R said he wouldnt have taken it out  the loan was for home improvements that 
hed not made any purchases for and couldve have comfortably delayed. That way, 
Mr R could have used his savings as he planned to go on holiday.
Ive compared that with what actually happened. Mr R realised he couldnt access his 
savings around three weeks after the loan was deposited in his account, at which 
point hed already spent the money on tradesmen. So, hes explained he had to 
cancel the holiday, as he didnt have any other options to raise the money needed.
Mr R didnt lose out financially from this. But its clear its impacted him emotionally. 
The holiday was planned as a last family get-together, with his wife, children and 
mother-in-law, who was terminally ill. She died a few months after the planned 
holiday.
Of course, the cancelled holiday didnt stop Mr Rs family spending time together  
but I do recognise the upset and disappointment about not having the trip theyd 
planned at what must have been a very sensitive time.
Ive weighed this up with the more positive consequences of what happened  
although I realise Mr R is unlikely to view any of it this way. But, his savings are intact 
and can be put towards something else, and hes been able to make the home 
improvements he wanted.
With this in mind, Ive thought about how Blantyre should put things right. I cant ask 
Blantyre to simply release the security. It was part of their requirement to lend to Mr 
R so it would also mean rewinding the whole loan, which isnt possible as hes made 
use of it. In any event, I understand the security will be released soon when the loan 
is repaid in full.So instead, Ive considered fair compensation, based on the impact its had on Mr R 
that Ive described above. These things arent an exact science  and no money can 
really make up for being hurt emotionally. But in the circumstances, I think Blantyre 
should pay £350, as a fair reflection of what happened.
 
My final decision
For these reasons, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and I order Blantyre Credit Union Limited to 
pay Mr R £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman