DRN-3253689
Complaint
Mrs W says National Westminster Bank PLC didnt pay her the full amount of redress she is 
due from having been mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a credit card 
account. 
Background
I can see one of our adjudicators comprehensively assessed this case and told Mrs W it 
wouldnt be upheld. This is because they thought NatWest had paid the correct redress to 
Mrs W.
Mrs W has consistently disagreed with this and still thinks shes due money back relating to 
the years before 1999, the date when NatWest says the PPI started. Mrs W says she had 
PPI from long before that time, possibly as far back as the 1970s or 80s.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
To be clear, this complaint is only about Mrs W not getting back all the money she thinks she 
is due. I note Mrs W has already accepted the redress NatWest has calculated from 1999 
onwards. This has been based on her PPI having started in 1999. However Mrs W doesnt 
agree with that - she thinks PPI was added much earlier. 
Ive read everything we have from both parties with great care, although I dont intend to 
repeat everything in this decision. I see our adjudicator took a great deal of time explaining  
verbally and in writing  that he thought there was nothing to support Mrs Ws opinion of the 
PPI having been added to her account earlier. I do also understand that following all the 
transactions which went on in the past, especially where linked credit card numbers are 
involved, can be difficult and even somewhat confusing.
However, having looked thoroughly at what NatWest has showed us, there is no doubt in my 
mind that Mrs W was sold PPI on or around 20 January 1999. Mrs W has produced some 
statements and cheque stubs which she says shows she had PPI long before this. However, 
as our adjudicator has already stated, clearly in my view, these show only that Mrs W had a 
credit card account. There is no dispute about this and Im afraid the statements and stubs 
do not show Mrs W had PPI  they only show she had the card account.
In summary, Ive looked at Mrs Ws allegation that she had PPI before 1999 and therefore 
ought to have the redress she has been offered by NatWest increased. 
However, there is no evidence whatsoever, that Ive seen, to support this. On the other 
hand, I have seen evidence that the PPI became active on her account in 1999. Calculating 
the redress for the mis-sale of PPI is therefore appropriate from this date onwards.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any further award against National Westminster Bank 
PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman