DRN-1649911
 
The complaint
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in December 2002. The policy was 
added to Mr Cs Egg credit card account when he applied for the card on line.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint's been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
I've seen screenshots of the on-line application form used for Egg credit cards at the 
time. It included equally prominent options to accept or decline PPI. Im satisfied that 
neither option would have been pre- selected. And Im satisfied that the PPI wouldn't 
have been added to Mr Cs credit card if he hadn't selected the option to take it. I 
think Barclays made Mr C aware that the PPI was optional, and that he chose to take 
it  although I can understand how he may no longer remember this, so long after the 
event.
 
Mr C's told us that Barclays recommended the PPI to him. But he completed the 
application entirely on line, and I think it's unlikely that he'd have had any direct 
contact with the bank's staff. It's true that the online application form said that 
Barclays strongly recommended the PPI. But I don't think Mr C would have taken this 
to be a personal recommendation to him. This means Barclays didn't have to check if 
it was suitable for him. It was for Mr C to decide whether or not he wished to take the 
cover, knowing what alternative means hed have had of protecting his monthly credit 
card repayments if he was off sick, or if he lost his job.
 I acknowledge that Mr C's told us he'd have been entitled to six months' full pay, 
followed by six months' half pay from his employer at the time if he'd been off sick. 
But if he'd made a successful claim on the PPI for accident or sickness, it would have 
helped with his monthly credit card repayments for up to 12 months. That's longer 
than Mr C's told us he'd have been entitled to full sick pay for. What's more, it would 
have paid the same benefit if he'd made a successful unemployment claim. And it 
would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr C received from his employer. 
So he could have used those to meet other expenses. 
 
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful for Mr C, 
especially as he's told us that aside from sick pay and redundancy pay, he didn't 
have any other means he could have used to make his monthly credit card payments 
if he'd been off sick, or if he'd lost his job. 
 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mr C chose to take out 
the policy. So he appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if hes 
understandably forgotten that now, so many years later. Based on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances at the time, he wasn't affected by any of the main things the policy 
didn't cover (for example, unusual working arrangements, or existing medical 
conditions). The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And since 
Mr C was paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it at any time if his 
circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer wanted the cover.
 
So taking everything into account, I think it unlikely Mr C would have made a different 
decision even if better information had been provided. On balance, I think hed still 
have taken out the policy.
 
This means that Barclays doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Barclays didn't tell Mr C, 
that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.
 
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman