DRN-3217249
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with his 
home insurance claim for damaged drains. 
Any reference to RSA also includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
Id like to reassure Mr J and RSA that Ive read and considered everything thats been 
submitted to this service in its entirety. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The starting point for any complaint about a claim is the contract of insurance 
between the parties  the policy. It sets out the terms and conditions, what cover is 
provided, definition and any exclusions that apply. Under the section Claims 
conditions  what you need to do, Mr Js policy states, Do not incur any costs or 
proceed with repair or replacement without our agreement. Regarding the settlement 
of a claim, the policy explains that RSA wont pay more than the amount it would cost 
it to repair or replace. Similar provisions are found in most home insurance policies 
Ive seen, and I dont find these terms unusual or surprising. 
Ive listened to the calls that took place between Mr J and RSA on the day he made 
the claim. He can be heard telling the agent that the pipes were already dug out and 
the area excavated to about six to eight feet. Mr J also says that breaking into the 
manhole was the next job which hed hoped would happen that day. This suggests 
that remedial work had already commenced before Mr J notified RSA of his claim. 
Indeed, he indicated during one of the calls that there was a delay in him notifying 
RSA as he wasnt sure if the claim would be covered. I acknowledge Mr Js reasons 
for going ahead with the remedial work, but strictly speaking this meant that the 
terms and conditions of the policy werent complied with. Nevertheless, RSA decided 
it would still consider Mr Js claim.
Mr J submits that RSA sent an incompetent surveyor who came to investigate a 
claim for subsidence and not the drains. But when Mr J notified RSA of his claim  
the calls Ive referred to above  he said he was convinced it was ground movement 
that had caused the damage to the drains. A detailed discussion took place and Mr J 
agreed to RSAs suggestion to appoint a subsidence expert to investigate whether 
there were any subsidence issues. That being the case, I dont consider RSA did 
anything wrong in sending a subsidence specialist to Mr Js home. 
Given that subsidence was ruled out, RSA went on to consider Mr Js claim under the 
remaining terms of the policy. The available information indicates there was a delay 
in moving things forward, but it was able to consider the claim under the accidental 
damage section. As the pipework had been replaced by the contractor Mr J had 
hired, RSA validated the claim by reviewing the video footage, photos and the report 
supplied by his contractor. Under the circumstances, I dont consider it unreasonable 
for RSA to have proceeded on that basis. RSA settled the claim by paying a cash 
value based on the cost that it would have incurred had it been given the opportunity 
to carry out the remedial work. As Ive previously mentioned, it is entitled to do this 
under the terms of the policy. So, I dont find that RSA acted unfairly in how it settled 
Mr Js claim.
Mr J has raised concerns about RSAs chosen method of repair. He says his 
contractors report recommends new pipework and theres no mention of installing a 
liner inside the existing drains. He says he doesnt believe installing a liner would 
have even been possible given the damage. I can see that both RSA and our 
investigator reached out to Mr Js contractor about this and were told that the 
contractor didnt do lining work, so wouldnt have recommended this option. But this 
is not the same as concluding that lining work was not a viable alternative to 
replacing the pipework. RSA employed the services of a company specialising in 
drainage systems to review the video footage, photos, and report supplied by Mr Js 
contractor and to advise on the most efficient repair method. The recommendation 
was to install an epoxy liner. Theres no compelling reason for me to doubt the 
credibility of this advice, not least because RSA forwarded key evidence to the 
drainage specialist. 
Mr J says RSA should have sent someone out to inspect the site. But RSAs position 
was prejudiced because remedial work was already underway. I understand that Mr J 
feels strongly about the matter, but his contractors report doesnt contradict the 
report commissioned by RSA. And Mr J hasnt provided comparable expert evidence 
to the contrary. So, theres simply not enough for me to conclude that the RSAs 
repair method would have failed. I appreciate that Mr J may have wanted to have the 
pipework replaced rather than repaired. But under the policy terms, that would have 
been RSAs decision to make.
The cash settlement RSA offered Mr J takes into account how much it would have 
cost it to repair the drains. To this amount, it has also added the cost of two callouts 
which Mr J incurred in unblocking the drains prior to any remedial work. I accept that 
Mr J has paid significantly more for the repairs. But as Ive found that RSA fairly 
settled the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, I wont be asking it 
to do anything further. I can also see that RSA has paid compensation in recognition 
of any delays. I consider £250 that it has paid to be a fair amount in the 
circumstances. 
In summary, although I know that Mr J feels strongly about this complaint and recognise that 
its likely hell disagree with my findings, Im satisfied RSA has fairly settled his claim. So, 
I wont be asking it to take any further action.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman