DRN-1894321
 
complaint
Mrs W says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in relation to a credit card.
background
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case. Where there is incomplete, 
contradictory or insufficient evidence for me to consider, I need to make my decision based 
on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both 
sides have said, and make a decision based on what I think most likely happened. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint for the reasons Ive set out below.
I think Barclays made Mrs W aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and she 
chose to take it. 
I say that because Barclays has been able to provide a copy of the application form. To get 
the PPI, Mrs W had to select it on the credit card application form. I have noted that the PPI 
was selected on Mrs Ws application form. Had Mrs W not wanted to take the PPI she could 
have left the box blank and marked the No area. There is no language in the documentation 
that states or implies that Mrs W had to take the cover to get the credit.  
Mrs W thinks she did not mark the form for the PPI. Mrs W has told us the PPI was selected 
without her consent by the representative of the business. Ive thought about this. If true, this 
complaint would be about fraud and would, I think, be more appropriate for the courts than 
for this service to consider. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Barclays didnt make Mrs W aware the PPI was 
optional or failed to secure her agreement to take it out. So, having considered all the 
submissions I have received in this case, and whilst acknowledging that things could have 
happened just as Mrs W said they did, I think its more likely that Barclays wouldve made 
Mrs W aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it, even though she may 
not remember that now, many years later. Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs W, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and it seems to have been right for her. For example, Mrs W was eligible for the policy and 
Mrs W was not affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And she 
seems to have had a need for the cover. Mrs W told us that she had some sick pay but little 
or no other means that she could have relied on if things went wrong. However, upon a 
successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, and this would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay that Mrs W may have been entitled to. So, thinking about all of 
this, I think Mrs W could have found the policy useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies offering similar 
benefits at the time and it appears to have been affordable. So having thought about 
everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mrs W.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mrs W, Barclays also had to give her clear 
enough information about the policy, so she could decide if she wanted to buy it. Its possible 
the information Barclays gave her was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, for the 
same reasons I think the policy was suitable, Im not persuaded more or better information 
wouldve made a difference to her decision to take out the PPI. So, I dont think Mrs W have 
lost out as a result of anything Barclays may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30July2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman