DRN-3364852
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service hes received from MBNA Limited surrounding a large 
payment he made to his credit account.
What happened
Mr D made a payment of £9,169.74 to his MBNA credit account. A few days later, Mr D 
contacted MBNA as the payment wasnt showing as bring applied to his account. He was 
told that his payment would be looked for and that hed receive a call back from MBNA within 
two days. However, this call back wasnt received, and Mr D had to contact MBNA again, 
nearly two weeks later, to seek an update on whether the payment had been found.
Mr D wasnt happy with how his second call had been handled by MBNA, and so he made 
enquiries with his own bank, from which it was concluded that an incorrect sort-code and 
account number had been used by Mr D and that the payment was likely being held in a 
suspense account by MBNA awaiting identification and allocation. This hypothesis turned 
out to be correct, and the payment was identified and allocated to Mr Ds MBNA account. Mr 
D wasnt happy with how MBNA had handled the situation, so he raised a complaint.
MBNA looked at Mr Ds complaint. They accepted that the level of service theyd provided to 
Mr D when he was searching for the missing payment wasnt to the standard that Mr D 
should reasonably expect to have received. MBNA apologised to Mr D for this and made a 
payment of £50 to him by way of compensation for any upset and inconvenience incurred. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied with MBNAs response, and after review MBNA offered to pay further 
compensation of £150 to Mr D, for a total compensation amount of £200.
Mr D still didnt feel that MBNAs response went far enough, so he referred his complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the total 
compensation amount offered to Mr D by MBNA did represent a fair and reasonable 
resolution to what had taken place, and so they didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr D might have been worried that the large payment hed made 
wasnt showing as being received or applied to his account. Additionally, I can also 
appreciate how he would have wanted MBNA to have displayed a greater urgency in 
locating his missing payment than appears to have been the case here.
MBNA have acknowledged that the service that they provided to Mr D in this regard wasnt 
to the level that they aspire too, and theyve apologised to Mr D for this and offered 
compensation totalling £200 for any trouble and upset that Mr D might have incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. However, in 
consideration of all the circumstances of this complaint, MBNAs offer of £200 total 
compensation to Mr D does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with 
what I would have instructed MBNA to have paid, had they not already offered to do so.
In taking this view, my consideration includes that MBNA werent themselves responsible for 
the payment going missing, and that as such any compensation payable would be purely for 
the service that MBNA provided Mr D in locating the missing payment.
And while I acknowledge that Nationwide did make promises of call backs to Mr D that didnt 
take place and didnt locate the missing payment in their suspense account in a timely 
manner, and also that Mr D wasnt satisfied with the service he received from MBNAs staff 
when speaking to them on the telephone, MBNA did take steps to ensure that Mr D wasnt 
adversely financially affected while they looked for the payment, including ensuring that Mr 
Ds account didnt accrue further interest on the account balance while the payment was 
being located and applied to the account. 
As such, I continue to feel that MBNAs acknowledgment of their failings in this instance, and 
their apology and offer of £200 compensation to Mr D for them, does represent a fair and 
reasonable resolution to this complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr D was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing MBNA to take any further action here, 
beyond that to which theyve already agreed. I hope that Mr D will understand, given all that 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman