DRN-2271920
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S are unhappy that Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltd (Be Wiser) didnt include 
accidental damage cover when they bought their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S took out an insurance policy through Be Wiser. When they received the 
policy documents, these said there was no accidental damage included. So, Mr S phoned 
Be Wiser to discuss this. Be Wiser confirmed that standard accidental damage was included 
in the policy, but extended accidental cover wasnt.
When Mr S and Mrs Ss policy renewed, Mr S contacted Be Wiser as he was concerned that 
there was no accidental damage on the policy. Be Wiser again confirmed that accidental 
damage was included.
Mr S and Mrs S complained to Be Wiser. They asked for the previous years premium to be 
refunded because the policy didnt include accidental damage. They also said that the 
renewal premium had been taken without their consent. Be Wiser replied and said that Mr S 
and Mrs S had accepted the terms of the previous years policy, which included accidental 
damage. It confirmed that a refund had been given for the policy renewal. It offered a £20 
voucher as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr S and Mrs S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that accidental damage had been included in the previous years policy and that Be 
Wiser had responded appropriately by refunding the renewal premium and offering a gesture 
of goodwill.
As Mr S and Mrs S did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first issue is whether accidental damage cover was included in the policy. Based on the 
wording of the policy schedule that was sent to Mr S and Mrs S, I can see why they might 
have thought accidental damage wasnt included. When Mr S raised this with Be Wiser, it 
spoke to the underwriter for the insurance policy, which confirmed that standard accidental 
damage was included in the policy. Be Wiser then spoke to Mr S on the phone and 
explained this to him. Having listened to the phone call between Be Wiser and the 
underwriter, Im satisfied that accidental damage was included in the policy. 
Ive also listened to the phone call that Be Wiser then made to Mr S, where it explained this 
to him. Im satisfied that it confirmed to Mr S that there was accidental damage cover in 
place and what that included and that, based on that discussion, Mr S confirmed that he 
accepted the policy. On that basis, I cant see any reason why Be Wiser should refund the 
premium paid for that year. Mr S and Mrs S wanted an insurance policy that included 
accidental damage and Be Wiser confirmed with the underwriter, and then with Mr S, that 
this was included. Mr S and Mrs S therefore had the type of policy in place that they had 
requested and I have no reason to think that they couldnt have made a claim for accidental 
damage under the terms of the policy that they had in place if they had needed to do so.
Mr S and Mrs S were also concerned that their policy was renewed without their agreement. 
Ive looked at the renewal proposal document that Mr S and Mrs S were sent. This said that 
if Mr S and Mrs S wanted to accept the renewal, they should phone Be Wiser to do so. Be 
Wiser has provided evidence that the payment was made by card. It also said that it couldnt 
have taken the payment without Mr S or Mrs S providing the full details from the card, such 
as the long number and expiry date and that the payment had been made using a different 
card to the previous years payment. So, on that basis, Im satisfied that Mr S consented to 
the policy being renewed and made the payment. 
Im also aware that Mr S then contacted Be Wiser again to query the accidental damage 
cover and decided the cancel the policy shortly after. Be Wiser confirmed to Mr S that it had 
cancelled the policy and refunded the premium.
So, thinking about all of the above, Im satisfied that there was accidental damage cover in 
place and that Be Wiser confirmed this to Mr S and Mrs S who then accepted the policy 
terms. When the policy renewed, Im satisfied that Mr S agreed for the policy to renew and 
made the payment for it to do so. On that basis, I dont uphold this complaint or require Be 
Wiser to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman