DRN-2705324
The complaint
Mr L complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited took too long to 
transfer shares to a charity he had chosen to donate too. By the time the shares were 
transferred they were worth less than when he originally made the request. 
What happened
On 18 February 2020 Mr L instructed Hargreaves Lansdown to transfer some shares to a 
charity that only accepted shares as donations. It received his instruction on 20 February 
2020  but the shares werent transferred until 6 March. Mr L complained about the delay. 
Hargreaves Lansdown looked into Mr Ls complaint. It didnt agree that it should be 
responsible for the drop in the value of the shares because Mr L had remained invested 
throughout the period in question. However, it agreed that its service had fallen below the 
standard he was entitled to expect and offered £150 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Mr L didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked 
into Mr Ls complaint but didnt agree it should be upheld. In short, he acknowledged that 
there had been a slight delay in Hargreaves Lansdown acting on Mr Ls instruction  
although he didnt consider the overall timeframe to have been excessively long. And he 
agreed that as Mr Ls instruction had been to transfer the shares in specie, there had been 
no financial loss caused by the delay. 
Mr L didnt agree so the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I dont have much to add to what the investigator has 
already said. I acknowledge that Mr L feels strongly about this complaint, but as the 
investigator has pointed out, there isnt a set time frame that Hargreaves Lansdown needed 
to adhere to when transferring shares in specie. Such transfers can take longer than, for 
example, cash transfers. And Im not persuaded that the overall length of time taken to 
transfer his shares was excessively long  although I acknowledge that it likely couldve 
been completed a few days earlier. I can see Hargreaves Lansdown has itself acknowledged 
this and offered compensation. 
But even if I had considered that Hargreaves Lansdown had taken longer than it should have 
to complete the transfer, Id then have to consider what financial loss had been caused by 
the delay. 
The shares were being transferred in specie  this means that Mr L was never out of the 
market. I appreciate Mr Ls case is different to normal transfers of this kind, because he was 
making a gift to a charity. And this charity only accepted shares as donations. In order to 
reassure Mr L that, in my view, the charity has not lost out as a result of a delay in 
transferring these shares to it, Ive looked at how this charity goes about realising the 
monetary value of the shares it receives as donations. In looking at its process, it seems to 
me that even if the transfer had taken place sooner (and to be clear, Im not persuaded its 
likely the transfer couldve taken place that much sooner than it eventually did) its likely 
Mr Ls chosen charity wouldnt have sold them immediately after they had been transferred 
anyway. 
In other words, the charity wouldve been affected by the drop in the value of the shares 
regardless of how quickly the transfer from Hargreaves Lansdown had taken place, because 
they would have kept hold of them for a period of time before realising their value. This is 
why I agree with the investigator that it wouldnt be fair to ask Hargreaves Lansdown to 
compensate Mr L or the charity for financial loss. 
So overall, whilst I understand why Mr L believes that his chosen charity ought to be 
compensated for the drop in the value of the shares, Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable. Ultimately, Hargreaves Lansdown didnt cause the drop in the value of the 
shares, that was simply down to the performance of the market. And for the reasons Ive 
given above, Mr L or his chosen charity would have suffered that drop in the value of the 
shares regardless of how quickly Hargreaves Lansdown had transferred them. For all these 
reasons, Im satisfied no further compensation is payable in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman