DRN-3496791
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the service he received from Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited and its agents in repairing his window damage claim under his motor policy.
What happened
Mr H made a claim to Admiral in March 2021 for damage to his windows in car. Admiral 
accepted his claim and arranged to have his windows repaired by its window repair agent. 
Sadly, Mr H wasnt satisfied with the windows repair and he said Admirals agent had caused 
damage to his car. Admiral agreed to cover the cost of repairs to Mr Hs car and offered 
£200 compensation. 
Mr H didnt think this was sufficient compensation for the trouble, upset and inconvenience 
the matter had caused him. So, he brought his complaint to us. The investigator initially 
upheld Mr Hs complaint and suggested Admiral increase the compensation to a total of 
£500. Admiral agreed but Mr H mentioned the damage to his car was only temporarily fixed 
and that Admirals agent had restricted which repairer he should use so he didnt think this 
was fair. The investigator investigated this further allegation by Mr H. 
She was satisfied that Mr H had confirmed to Admiral that his car was repaired satisfactorily, 
and it hadnt restricted which garage could do the work, so she didnt think Admiral had to do 
anything more. Mr H disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint but along the lines of the investigator. 
Clearly the original window repair went badly wrong with further damage occurring to Mr Hs 
car. And the experience was frustrating and inconvenient for Mr H. What should have been a 
simple window replacement took over seven weeks to complete, causing further damage to 
Mr Hs car. That wasnt reasonable or fair service for such a simple claim under Mr Hs 
policy. So, I consider the £500 suggested by the investigator and accepted by Admiral to be 
reasonable and in line with previous awards I have made in similar circumstances.
However, there is no evidence shown to me that Admirals agents restricted Mr H to any 
garage to complete the repair work, rather it was Mr H who chose the garage not Admirals 
agent. And further there is evidence that Mr H confirmed to Admiral on 10 May 2021 that all 
the further repair works had been completed indicating no evidence that the repairs were 
temporary as Mr H claimed. The call transcript shows the following:
ADV (adviser): Ah brilliant, so, you are happy with the work that has now been 
completed, I understand that a garage did that for you, is that right? 
CAL (Mr H): Correct yes

ADV: We broke the handbrake trim, and the trim on the back of the glass, and the 
trim on the passengers side, pretty much, passenger side and the drivers side 
CAL: It was a long list 
ADV: Yeah, it was a long list 
CAL: It was a long list, yeah
My final decision
So, on that basis its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr H a total of £500 compensation 
which I note it has already agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman