DRN-3373162
The complaint
Mrs G complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of her claim about storm
damage, under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2020 Mrs G noticed staining on her bedroom ceiling. She says this followed a
period of stormy weather. UKI sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. Mrs G says he took
photos of the roof and damaged ceiling but didnt enter the loft space. He told her the wet
ceiling was caused by rainwater entering through the roof vents and soaking the insulation
material.
Mrs G says the surveyor told her rainwater wouldnt enter through the vents during every
storm, it was a, one in a million chance that the wind was blowing in that specific direction
on this occasion.
UKI says that following the inspection its surveyor concluded there was no evidence of
external storm damage to Mrs Gs roof. The point of entry for the rainwater was identified as
the roof vents, which are positioned above the water damaged ceiling. It says Mrs G was
told she was responsible for upgrading the vents and this wasnt covered under her claim.
UKI didnt agree it should pay for Mrs G to have a contractor erect scaffolding to inspect the
roof. It says its satisfied its surveyor had identified the cause of the water penetration. It
says the internal damage is covered by its policy, but there was no storm damage to the
external parts of the roof. This meant there was no insured loss for it to cover other than the
damaged ceiling. It told Mrs G she could arrange her own inspection if she thought there
was a different cause of the damage.
Mrs G says the purpose of her contractor erecting scaffolding was to find the cause of the
leak. UKI didnt agree to pay for this and Mrs G subsequently agreed to UKI carrying out
repairs to the ceiling, which included removal of insulation material. This took place in April
2021. Mrs G says that in either May or June stains reappeared on the same ceiling. She
contacted UKI to report this with photos to show the damage.
UKI says it doesnt believe Mrs G carried out work to the roof vents. It says this has allowed
water to get back into the roof space. UKI says Mrs G hasnt provided evidence that
contradicts its surveyors assessment of the cause of the damage. It says the onus is on her
to demonstrate that the cause of the further damage is an insured loss and not the cause its
surveyor identified.
Mrs G wasnt happy with this outcome and referred her complaint to our service. Our
investigator upheld her complaint. She says UKIs surveyor hadnt explained why rainwater
had got through the roof vents. For example, deterioration caused by wear and tear. She
didnt think it was likely that rainwater would enter the roof in this way as it would mean the
vents werent fit for purpose. She also acknowledged that Mrs Gs builder thought scaffolding
was necessary to identify the damage to the roof. She didnt think the true cause of the
damage had been found.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs G wouldve agreed for the internal repairs to take place, if
shed been aware the damage could happen again. To resolve this, she thought it was fair
for UKI to arrange a further inspection of the damaged ceiling to see if this was a problem
with new water ingress or a problem with the work it carried out.
UKI disagreed. It says its expert determined rainwater had entered via the roof vent, and
there was no storm damage visible externally. It says there is no evidence to support the
cause of damage it advised is wrong. UKI says Mrs G is aware she needs to provide her
own report and photos to support a different cause of the damage.
As no agreement was reached it has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mrs Gs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate it will be disappointing for Mrs G, I dont think her complaint should be
upheld. Ill explain why.
Its the responsibility of a policyholder to prove, at least on the face of it, that they have a
valid claim for one of the insured events (storm, flood, fire etc.) covered by
the policy terms.
In Mrs Gs case UKI accepted her claim for storm damage caused by rainwater entering
through her roof. But it didnt find any evidence of storm damage to the roof itself and
thought rainwater had penetrated through the roof vents.
I have read UKIs inspection report to understand what its surveyor found. The report says:
During my inspection of the roof I could see no damage that would be consistent with any
single or storm loss, water appears to entering the roof void through the tile vents, these are
directly above the resulting damage to the bedroom below.
Water has leaked onto the bedroom ceiling following a [sic] ingress from the failed roof
directly above. The area shown to me by the insured was on the second floor to the rear of
the property and was in a good maintained condition. Inspection revealed water damage to
the smooth skimmed, plasterboard ceiling. The affected area of plaster board base has
sustained water damage and is sagged from the ceiling joists an area of approx 2m2. The
affected area requires cutting out and timber noggins inserted prior to a plasterboard patch
repair, ceiling skimmed and painted upon completion. Additional water staining was also
noted to the surrounding walled area, although no lasting damage was found to the structure
of the plasterworks.
And:
The resulting damage to the single affected room will be covered under storm rains, the
external works will unfortunately not be covered following no resulting damage. The storm
rains have caused water to breach through the tiles vents and cause the saturation to the
ceiling below, the insured was present throughout the inspection and has been advised that
any works required to her roof will not be covered under her policy as no peril has been inoperation to the roof.
The insured was not happy that she could not claim for the roof repairs as she does not have
the money to carry out the works...
Im not a roofing expert and must be guided by the expert opinion provided.
Ive looked at the photos attached to the surveyors report, which were taken using an
extendable pole and camera. This shows that the roof vents are situated directly above the
damaged ceiling. I also think the photos and surveyors report are persuasive in
demonstrating there is no visible storm damage to the roof.
I have thought about Mrs Gs account of events and the discussions she had with her
contractor. She says he entered the loft space and decided there wasnt enough room to
assess the damage internally. This meant erecting scaffolding to assess the damage
externally. Shes provided a quote for scaffolding to be erected. But hasnt provided a report
that shows the source of the water ingress isnt from the roof vent. I understand this is
because she didnt want to pay the scaffolding cost and believes UKI is responsible for
finding the source of the leak.
I acknowledge Mrs Gs comments. But UKI has already employed an expert to identify the
source of the water ingress. The surveyor is clear in identifying the roof vents as the source
of this.
The records show Mrs G was told the internal damage was covered, but her policy didnt
cover the work needed to the vents. Further staining occurred after the ceiling repairs were
completed. But UKI maintains its view that this is the result of Mrs G not carrying out repairs
to the roof vents. Resulting in more rainwater getting into the loft space.
Mrs G hasnt supplied an expert report that shows UKIs view is inaccurate and theres a
different cause of the water damage. Because of this I cant reasonably say that UKIs view
is wrong. From the records provided Mrs G was made aware that external work wasnt
covered by her policy terms when she agreed the repairs internally. So, she was aware its
her responsibility to remedy the issue with the roof vents.
Having considered all of this, I dont think UKI treated Mrs G unfairly when identifying the
cause of the damage and in carrying out the repairs it did. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do
any more to resolve her complaint.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
UKI had no further comments to add.
Mrs G says UKIs assessor told her there was no fault with the roof vents and the water 
ingress was the result of a one in a million chance of wind direction. She says the ceiling 
stains havent worsened as a result of subsequent storms. 
Mrs G says UKIs contractor reported the plaster was too wet to be painted but was told to 
go ahead anyway. She says a brown stain is apparent in this area. She also says a groove 
was cut along this stain and painted over leaving a visible difference in the finish. Mrs G refers to comments made by UKIs contractor that they dont get paid unless the work 
is complete, that they didnt think the plaster was wet, and there could be a leaking pipe in 
the loft. She says UKI wouldnt investigate because of the costs and viewed that repairs 
could be completed from within the property.
Mrs G says UKIs assessor told her the roof vents required no work or upgrade. So, its view 
this is the cause of further water ingress is misleading. She says there was no wet weather 
between painting and reappearance of the staining. Mrs G thinks UKI is fixated on the roof 
and vents when she has told it repeatedly neither need attention. She says UKI has 
incorrectly phrased information from her and the experts involved when dealing with our 
service. 
Mrs G says a leaking pipe cant be the cause or the staining would be markedly worse. She 
thinks the ongoing staining is caused by painting over wet plaster and UKI should make the 
necessary repairs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained Im not a roofing expert and must rely on the expert 
opinion provided. I acknowledge Mrs Gs reference to comments from the surveyor about 
wind direction. But the inspection report concludes the cause of the water ingress is the roof 
vents directly above where the water damage was noticed. The surveyor thought this was 
the likely source of the ingress, and comments in the inspection report that this was 
explained to Mrs B. It says she was advised any works required to the roof werent covered 
under the policy as no insured event had occurred in relation to the roof. 
Mrs G say she noticed further staining in either May or June 2021. Following the repairs 
carried out to her ceiling in April 2021. I acknowledge her comments that painting took place 
onto wet plaster. But she also refers to the further assessment UKIs contractor carried out 
and that he didnt think this was the case.
UKI thinks its likely that because work hasnt been carried out to the roof vents, the source 
of the water ingress hasnt been resolved. This is why the staining reoccurred. I 
acknowledge Mrs Gs reference to dry weather, but she hasnt shown there was no rain for 
the period between the repairs and the staining reoccurring. She didnt know exactly when 
the staining reappeared, but this couldve been around two months later. I think its 
reasonable to expect it rained during this period. 
Mrs G hasnt supplied an expert report that gives a different cause for the water ingress and 
staining. Based on the evidence provided I think UKIs experts view that the roof vents are 
the source of the problem remains the most persuasive.  
I understand that Mrs G is frustrated and disappointed that she has staining visible on her 
ceiling. Im sorry that this has happened. But I dont think shes shown that UKI is wrong 
about why it happened.     
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman