DRN-4198296
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). He isnt happy 
about the way it dealt with a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B made a claim under his home insurance policy in relation to his fence that was 
damaged during two separate storms. RSA dealt with the claims, but Mr B wasnt happy 
about the way it advanced the claims and the quality of the repairs. He went onto appoint his 
own repairer to undertake the work and complained to RSA about the various delays and the 
fact it wouldnt pay his full costs. 
Mr B raised other complaints with this Service that have been considered separately. It was 
decided that those complaints, about earlier stages of his claim, were brought to this Service 
out of time and wont be considered as part of this complaint. This decision will solely focus 
on the issues Mr B raised and were dealt with in RSAs final response letter (FRL) dated 19 
December 2022 which Mr N brought in time. 
Our Investigator looked into things for Mr B. Although he accepted RSA had delayed matters 
he thought its offer of compensation (solely in relation to the period of time he could consider 
under this complaint between July and December 2022) of £200 was fair. And he didnt think 
RSA had acted unfairly in paying Mr B the maximum allowed under the policy in relation to 
damaged fences (£1,000) even though Mr B had incurred more in fixing the fence. 
As Mr B didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Bs position and why he wanted his other complaint points that he 
raised with RSA separately covered here. But these complaints of 26 October 2021 and 27 
July 2022 have been considered separately and it was decided they were brought out of 
time so I cant consider them here. And focussing solely on the complaint considered and 
dealt with in RSAs FRL of 19 December 2022 I think RSAs response to that complaint was 
fair. 
I can understand why Mr B wants more than the policy limit allowed for the repair of his 
fence after the second storm damage claim as it ended up costing him more than the 
amount RSA paid him to repair his fence when he arranged for the repairs privately. But 
while I sympathise with Mr Bs position I have to be fair to both sides when I consider 
complaints and I cant ask RSA to simply step outside the policy and its limits just because it 
has ended up costing Mr B more than the policy allows.
I say this as the policy documentation and terms are clear. RSA told Mr B in October 2022 
that it would only pay £1,000 in relation to the storm damage caused to his fences in line 
with the policy terms which say RSA will pay Up to £1,000 each claim for.walls, gates, 
fences. under the Garden Section of the policy. I understand that RSA paid slightly more 
than the policy limit in relation to one of the claims but that doesnt mean it is obliged to pay 
a lot more for the second claim. And it has paid a fair degree of compensation in relation to 
both claims and seems to have waived the policy excess, so I think it has acted fairly. Given 
the policy documentation was clear and RSA told Mr B in October 2022 of its intention to 
limit payment to £1,000 in line with the policy I think it has acted fairly. 
Turning to the delay, I can see RSA has acknowledged the delays were excessive and 
avoidable in relation to both claims. But the first claim was dealt with separately and in 
focussing on the delay and poor service for the second claim and the period of time that can 
be covered under this complaint (the issues dealt with in the FRL of 19 December 2022) I 
agree £200 seems fair in the circumstances. Although I accept that RSA couldve finalised 
and assessed the costs involved here far quicker the level of compensation it has offered is 
in line with the kind of awards I would ordinarily make. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman