DRN-3957247
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading 
as American Express handled her claim for a refund when she didnt receive an item she 
bought online using her credit card. 
What happened
In January 2022 Ms P paid about £400 for a swimsuit she bought online from a company Ill 
call S. When the item was delivered, it was too small. Ms P asked S for a refund and 
arranged for the item to be collected. At the same time, she ordered a second, larger, 
swimsuit from S, which cost the same amount. Over the course of the next few days, S told 
Ms P that the collection of the first item was unsuccessful, while the second item had been 
delivered. Ms P disputed this as she said the first item had been collected and the second 
hadnt been delivered. She pursued this with S and when that didnt result in any refund, she 
disputed the transactions with AESEL.
AESEL refunded the amount Ms P paid for the first swimsuit. But it said S had provided 
reasonable proof of delivery for the second swimsuit, so it wouldnt provide a refund for that. 
Ms P complained. She said it had taken too long for AESEL to deal with her disputes and 
shed had to chase it for updates. She also said AESEL had mixed up the two disputes 
mentioned above, and a third one shed made around the same time relating to a different 
item. AESEL had provided a refund for that one too. AESEL didnt uphold her complaint. It 
didnt think it had taken too long to investigate her disputes, or that it had mis-handled her 
claims. Ms P remained unhappy so brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint. He thought AESEL was entitled to rely on 
the delivery tracking data provided by S. So, he thought it had acted fairly in declining Ms Ps 
claim. As Ms P disagreed with the investigators view, her complaint was passed to me to 
make a final decision. I came to the same outcome as the investigator but for slightly 
expanded reasons, so I sent a provisional decision to Ms P and AESEL to give them an 
opportunity to comment. Neither party replied and so my findings and my decision below are 
substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms P but, having done so, I dont think AESEL needs to do anything 
more. Let me explain why.
I can fully understand Ms Ps frustration and anger at not receiving the goods shes paid for. 
But I should make it clear at the outset that my decision must focus solely on the way 
AESEL handled Ms Ps dispute. And in doing that, I need to consider what AESEL is 
responsible for under the specific card protections which are available. In this case these are 
the chargeback rules and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Ill look at whether 
AESEL followed the relevant rules and whether it treated Ms P fairly.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme is one way which AESEL might have been able to recover funds for 
Ms P. But AESEL is limited by the particular scheme rules that apply. It appears that AESEL 
tried to raise a chargeback for Ms P based on a reason code that relates to goods or 
services not being received. But the chargeback wasnt successful as S provided evidence 
that it believed supported its case, namely evidence that showed the goods were delivered 
to the address that Ms P provided as part of the ordering process, and evidence from the 
delivery company showing the time and date the item was delivered.
I understand that Ms P disputes this. Shes signed a statement to say the swimsuit wasnt 
delivered. She said shed checked around her property and with her neighbours, and she 
hadnt located the package. But without something more, I think it was reasonable for 
AESEL to rely on the information provided by S as that showed the time and date of delivery. 
Ms P did provide some CCTV footage, which shows that the first swimsuit was collected 
from her property. But that was a few days before S said the second swimsuit was delivered 
so I dont think that has a bearing on this matter. And so, on balance, I dont think AESEL 
could reasonably have done more here in its attempts to get Ms P her money back via the 
chargeback route. 
Section 75
AESEL says it didnt consider Ms Ps claim for a refund under Section 75. But, for 
completeness, Ive also considered whether she might have been able to make a successful 
claim under that section of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. In certain circumstances, Section 
75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
But for a valid claim to be made, AESEL would need to have enough evidence to show that 
there had been a breach of contract, i.e. that the second swimsuit wasnt delivered to Ms Ps 
address. And in the absence of sufficient evidence to contradict the information provided by 
S, I cant fairly conclude that AESEL should have provided a refund under Section 75.
Customer service
Ms P also complained about the way AESEL handled her claim. She thinks it mixed up the 
three disputes she raised around the same time and misunderstood the complaint she 
raised. Ive considered the information available, including the telephone calls Ms P made to 
AESEL. I can see that it responded promptly to the initial dispute about the second swimsuit 
and re-opened it at Ms Ps request. When she was unable to provide any further evidence, it 
closed its investigation. And, in the circumstances, I think that was fair. I can see that AESEL 
referred to all three disputes in its final response letter, but it clearly distinguished between 
the three disputes. And I think it was fair to refer to all three because Ms P had discussed all 
three in her telephone call with AESEL at the end of April 2022 when she raised a complaint. 
On balance, Im satisfied AESEL handled Ms Ps claim fairly.
Summary  
Im sorry to hear about the problems Ms P experienced but I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask AESEL to refund the money she paid to S.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as American Express.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman