DRN-3391995
The complaint
Mr R complains about the level of service provided by Mercer Limited trading as Mercer Jelf 
Financial Planning (Mercer) in relation to his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He 
says despite acknowledging some errors, the amount of compensation offered by Mercer is 
too low.
What happened
Mr R had meetings with his financial adviser in 2015. The adviser recommended that he 
move his personal pension to a SIPP, with 50% of the funds invested into one fund (which I 
will call Fund A) and 50% into another fund (Fund B). Hes had regular meetings with Mercer 
since then as part of its ongoing advice service.
At a review in January 2018 Mr R said he wanted a review every six months and Mercers 
adviser said she would make appropriate diary adjustments to ensure half yearly reviews in 
September/January/February to their mutual convenience.
A suitability report was prepared setting out what was discussed at the meeting. Mercer 
recommended the following :
I recommend your investment continues to be invested 50% in [Fund A] and 50% in [Fund 
B]. We have previously confirmed to you in our report dated February 2016 why I consider 
these funds to be suitable for you. I confirm I consider these reasons to still be applicable.
This report was sent to Mr R a few months after the meeting.
The next review meeting took place in March 2019. At that point Mr R was looking to make a 
gross contribution of £46,878 into his pension (by paying in a net sum of £37,502). The 
payment was made and the pension provider confirmed receipt of the funds on 25 March.
There was also a discussion about the returns on his investments. He wanted to consider 
switching the funds invested in Fund B to a different provider, because the performance of 
Fund B was relatively poor. It was agreed that the funds should be compared and a 
recommendation should be made, with fund switch forms provided once completed.
Mr R told Mercer the payment of £37,502 should be made into Fund A if the new fund it had 
advised should replace Fund B had not been set up in time.
In July 2019 Mercer realised that the pension contribution Mr R had made in March was still 
sitting in the cash fund and hadnt been invested as agreed. Although Mercer had prepared 
a report following the meeting (and dated 25 March 2019) Mr R hadnt received this so the 
forms hadnt been completed or returned.
The report and forms were issued in July 2019. The additional pension contribution of 
£37,502 was then invested into the new fund on 19 July and the switch from Fund B to the 
new fund was made on 22 July.
Mr R complained about the delays in carrying out the additional investment and the switch of 
funds. He said Mercer had agreed to monitor the fund performance and should have advised 
him to move his funds sooner.
Mercer accepted there had been some failings. It calculated that if the pension contribution 
had been made on 1 April 2019, and the fund switch had taken place on 2 April (which is 
what it said would have happened if things had not been delayed), he would have been 
£6,441.92 better off. So it made an offer of £5,153.54 (for the net payment into his pension) 
to compensate him for this. Mercer said 20% tax relief would be added to this figure to bring 
the total to £6,441.92.
Mercer also offered compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr R.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with this and brought his complaint to our service but our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said:
Although Mercer did agree to monitor the performance of the fund, it wasnt a 
straightforward situation of Mr R simply being given information and then switching; 
Mercer would have looked at various factors and then advised on the best course of 
action.
Mercers terms of business refer to an annual review  it monitors performance in 
general terms and reviews things at each meeting. That doesnt mean it would be 
actively monitoring all the time and alerting Mr R to poor performance in between 
review meetings.
Switches take place as part of the annual review, which is when this might have 
happened. If Mercer had agreed to meet more often, that raised Mr Rs expectations, 
but it doesnt necessarily mean the switch would have happened earlier.
The fund Mr R moved into was a new fund, only available from February 2019. Even 
if it  had been available earlier, the notes from previous meetings show he preferred 
a passive investment style and this only changed to a more active style in March 
2019. 
Mercer shouldnt have agreed to monitor the funds if it couldnt fulfil that promise  
but the harm caused is a loss of expectation rather than a financial loss.
Mr R didnt agree and set out some further points, including that:
The investigator didnt correctly identify the nature of all his complaints, and key facts 
were overlooked. His complaint stems from the fact Mercer
- ignored his specific instruction in relation to the investment of £46,887.50 which 
was left in cash uninvested for four months;
- failed to do what it had agreed to do  namely, to monitor Fund B  and this 
caused a significant loss in value when the transfer was eventually made 16 
months later.
At the meeting in January 2018 it was agreed that because he was concerned about 
the performance of Fund B, Mercer would monitor this fund  and this agreement 
was later confirmed by Mercer in January 2020.
It was reasonable for him to conclude from the suitability report sent in July 2018 that 
Fund B was being monitored.
When the underperformance was brought to his attention, he immediately instructed 
a switch of investments. If hed been told about the poor performance earlier, he 
would have taken that action earlier  and this should have happened in February or 
March 2018.
The whole point of Mercer monitoring the fund was so that he could switch out of it, if 
it continued to underperform. Thats what active management and active advice is all about and what he was paying for. This didnt need to wait for the next review 
meeting  an email or letter would have been enough.
The compensation in respect of the investment in March 2019 should be calculated 
from 20 March to 19 July 2019 (the date the investment actually took place).
Mr R also commented that Mercer should be asked to produce calculations of his loss so 
that, if he considers it necessary, he can take independent advice about the calculations.
The investigator considered Mr Rs  points but didnt change his view. So the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on the complaint saying I intended to 
uphold it in part. I set out my reasons as follows:
The starting point for considering the complaint is Mercers terms of business, which form 
the basis of the relationship between the parties. These confirm that Mr R would be given 
advice after an assessment of needs; set out the basis for Mercers charges; and say there 
will be an annual review, following which it will confirm any recommendations or changes 
that might be needed.
As well as the terms of business, Mercer has a general duty to treat its customers fairly; to 
deal with things in a reasonable time; and when giving advice, to provide enough information 
to allow Mr R to make an informed choice, and ensure the advice given was suitable for his 
needs.
Ive taken into account these duties, as well Mercers terms of business, when considering 
the complaint.
There are two aspects to the complaint and I will deal with each separately.
Mercer failed to act on Mr Rs instructions in March 2019
When Mr R made the one-off contribution into his SIPP, Mercer should have invested those 
funds. This didnt happen until July because, due to an oversight, the letter of instruction 
wasnt sent to Mr R. It was only dealt with when Mercer realised the funds hadnt been 
invested as they should have been. Theres no dispute about what went wrong here  the 
issue is how to put things right for Mr R.
Mercer has calculated the loss due to the delay between March and July 2019. The value if 
the additional sum had been added in March would have been £286,343.85. The actual 
value was £279,697.55. Taking into account the sums held in cash it calculated the loss to 
be £5,924.85. The calculations were based on the assumption the additional investment 
should have been made on 8 April and the switch of funds from Fund B should have 
happened on 10 April. After Mr R questioned those dates, Mercer agreed the appropriate 
dates to use were 1 and 2 April respectively and re-calculated the loss, reaching a sum of 
£6,441.92. From the information Ive seen Im satisfied the calculations were reasonable. So 
I dont think Mercer needs to take any further action.
Mr R has mentioned whether the payment should have been made gross or net. Where a 
business has offered to pay compensation into a pension fund, it may be treated as a 
personal contribution and qualify for tax relief. So I think it was reasonable for Mercer to pay 
the net amount. If it had made the payment gross, tax relief would be added, meaning he 
would be overcompensated.
Monitoring the performance of Fund BTheres a fundamental disagreement between Mr R and Mercer about what was supposed 
to happen.
Mr R says he raised concerns about the fund performance in January 2018 and Mercer 
agreed to monitor this and have reviews every six months instead of yearly reviews, but that 
didnt happen. He understood Mercer would be actively monitoring the performance regularly 
and would advise him if it was not performing well.
Mercer says that although it did say it would monitor the funds, that didnt mean it would be 
monitoring them closely on a day to day basis  all it meant was that it would review 
performance and advise him at the annual review meetings as to whether the investments 
were still suitable for him, or if he should move to different investments. And it says if Mr R 
wanted close monitoring, that was a higher level of service which would have been charged 
for.
Ive considered this carefully and weighed up the comments from both Mr R and Mercer. Its 
clear Mr R was expecting the performance of his investments to be monitored. But looking at 
what was said at the time, I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Mercer to have 
monitored things that closely and alerted him as soon as there were any signs of poor 
performance. If Mr R wanted active monitoring in that way, he could have agreed a different 
level of service with Mercer  and would have been charged more for it. That wasnt, 
however agreed. In my view, what Mercer promised was to review the funds before each 
review meeting and then recommend whether Mr R should leave them as they were or make 
any changes. So I dont think it should have notified Mr R of any performance issues as early 
as February or March 2018 as hes suggested.
Having said that, Mercer gave a clear commitment to Mr R to have a review every six 
months rather than every 12 months  Mr R was told it would make dairy adjustments to 
ensure half yearly reviews in September/January/February to their mutual convenience. I 
appreciate the terms of business refer to a 12 month review, but I agree with Mr R that 
Mercer varied those terms when it gave this specific commitment to him. In the 
circumstances, it wouldnt be fair for Mercer not to honour this agreement.
This was a specific commitment to have a review every six months. But Mr R didnt have a 
review meeting from January 2018 until March 2019  over a year later. If Mercer had done 
what it agreed to do and there had been a review meeting in September 2018 as promised, 
the poor performance of Fund B would have been highlighted at that point. And if hed been 
told about the poor performance of Fund B then, its more likely than not that he would have 
switched at that point  since he did decide to make the change as soon as he found out the 
following March. He clearly had some concerns and Im satisfied he would have made the 
change as soon as his concerns were confirmed.
For these reasons, Im satisfied Mercer was in breach of the agreement it had reached with  
Mr R and he would have acted differently if that breach hadnt happened.
Putting things right
To put things right, the aim is to put Mr R in the position he would have been in, if the review 
had taken place as agreed in September.
When Mr R made the additional investment in March 2019, his instructions were that it 
should be invested in Fund A if the new fund wasnt available. And the new fund wasnt 
available until February 2019. So he wouldnt have been able to invest in that fund in 
September 2018. I think if hed made the switch in September 2018, he would most likely 
have moved the funds to Fund A.Mercer has already compensated Mr R for the loss between March and July 2019. So the 
additional calculation should cover the period up to 2 April. I dont know the exact date when 
a review might have taken place in September 2018. I think it would be reasonable to do the 
calculation using the period from 30 September 2018 to 1 April 2019.
Any loss Mr R has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the 
pension from Fund B on the basis that it had been in Fund A between those dates, and 
subtracting the value of the pension in Fund B at 1 April 2019 from this notional value. If the 
answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr R hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from their plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Replies to the provisional decision
Mercer has accepted the provisional decision and has said if Mr R also accepts the findings 
it will finalise matters on the basis of the calculation set out above.
Mr R has provided further comments. He says:
Although the provisional decision records that compensation has been paid to him by 
Mercer, that hasnt happened as he was required to sign a document in full and final 
settlement, which he hasnt done.
In correspondence in January 2020, Mercer acknowledged that at the meeting in 
January 2018 it was verbally agreed it would monitor the performance of Fund B, 
which was under-performing compared to Fund A. So his expectation was that the 
two funds would be monitored against each other. This requirement wasnt recorded 
correctly at the time.
In further correspondence in March 2020 Mercer again acknowledged that it had 
agreed to monitor the performance of Fund B.
The performance of the two funds could have been monitored easily and should have 
been reported to him in a letter Mercer sent in June 2018, which discussed the two 
funds. If this had been done, he would have required the fund switch in June 2018.
If Mercer had simply agreed to continue monitoring both funds as required by the 
terms of business it would have said so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R maintains that Mercer should have been monitoring the performance of the two funds 
more closely and this had been agreed. And he says he should have been told about the underperformance in June 2018, in which case he would have requested the switch then. So 
I need to decide whether hes right about this, and the compensation should be calculated 
from that date rather than September 2018, as I proposed in the provisional decision.
Ive considered what Mr R says but Im not persuaded by his comments that there was an 
agreement in place for Mercer to monitor the two funds closely in the way he says. This 
would have been a change in the way it was conducting business with him. As Mercer says, 
if he wanted that type of active monitoring, that would have been charged at a higher rate. If 
Mercer had agreed to vary things it this way its likely that would have been confirmed, 
together with the additional charges. The agreement to have more regular review meetings 
was confirmed in writing, but there was no such confirmation of any change to the monitoring 
itself. On balance, Im not satisfied Mercer did agree to this.
So my view remains that what Mercer should have done was to honour the commitment it 
did make  to have a review in September. And if that had happened, then the funds would 
likely have been switched at that point. So Mercer needs to calculate whether any loss was 
caused by the failure to do this.
Mr R says the compensation Mercer agreed hasnt in fact been paid to him. I explained in 
my provisional decision why I thought the compensation was appropriate and thats still my 
view. So I dont think Mercer needs to do anything differently in relation to this part of the 
complaint. But if Mr R hasnt received that compensation, it should now be paid. In addition, 
Mercer should calculate whether there is a loss in respect of the delayed fund switch and if 
so, pay the additional compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right, the aim is to put Mr R in the position he would have been in, if the review 
had taken place as agreed in September.
When Mr R made the additional investment in March 2019, his instructions were that it 
should be invested in Fund A if the new fund wasnt available. And the new fund wasnt 
available until February 2019. So he wouldnt have been able to invest in that fund in 
September 2018. I think if hed made the switch in September 2018, he would most likely 
have moved the funds to Fund A.
Mercer has already calculated the compensation for Mr R for the loss between March and 
July 2019 and offered compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience. If these 
payments havent been made, they should now be paid.
The additional calculation should cover the period up to 2 April 2019. I dont know the exact 
date when a review might have taken place in September 2018. I think it would be 
reasonable to do the calculation using the period from 30 September 2018 to 1 April 2019.
Any loss Mr R has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the 
pension from Fund B on the basis that it had been in Fund A between those dates, and 
subtracting the value of the pension in Fund B at 1 April 2019 from this notional value. If the 
answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr R hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and direct Mercer Limited trading as 
Mercer Jelf Financial Planning to take the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman