DRN-2415027
The complaint
Mr K complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) automatically renewed his motor policy 
without his knowledge and wont agree a full refund of premiums as he was insured with 
another company at the same time.
What happened
Mr K took out a car insurance policy online with esure in 2015. In November 2016 Mr K says 
he took out insurance with another company (P). Mr K says he didnt realise the esure policy 
had automatically renewed so he had two policies for the same thing (dual insurance). He 
says hed changed his email address and esure was emailing information about the policy 
and renewals to the old email address. Mr K made a claim with P in February 2018.
Mr K realised payments were still being made monthly to esure from his debit card under a 
Continuous Payment Authority (CPA). He asked his bank to make a refund. The bank 
refunded all payments made between November 2016 and October 2018. esure contacted 
Mr K about this and he told it about the cover he had with P. 
esure checked the insurance database. It said Mr K wasnt dual insured for the year 2016-17 
and wasnt due a refund for that year. It agreed the full refund between November 2018 and 
April 2019. But said he was only due a refund of 50% between November 2017 and October 
2018. It said this meant Mr K owed it £311.94. It said he should ask P to refund 50% of the 
premiums back for the 2017-18 year.
Mr K complained about the CPA and the policy renewing automatically. esure rejected the 
complaint saying he had agreed to the CPA at the outset and automatic renewal of the 
policy. It said it had issued information about both at each renewal. It said he needed to pay 
the £311.94 and if he didnt it might be passed to debt collectors.
Mr K referred his complaint to our service and esure stopped any debt recovery while we 
considered it. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said Mr K hadnt provided any 
evidence that he was dual insured between November 2016 to October 2017. So, the 
amount esure said was owing for this year was correct. But as hed proved he had dual 
insurance by making a claim with P, esure should refund all the premiums from November 
2017 to April 2019, not just from November 2018. 
Mr K accepted this and said he would seek evidence from P that he was insured with it 
2016-2017 but hasnt provided anything further.
esure disagreed with our investigator. It said normal insurance practice for dual insurance 
was for each insurer to refund 50% of the premiums paid. It said that as Mr K had made a 
claim in February 2018 it was 50% liable for this and P could ask for half of the claim 
payment at any time.  
As esure doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 31 October 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not planning to 
uphold the complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr K, so Ill explain why.
The Automatic Renewal 
Mr K has complained to esure about the CPA and automatic renewal of the policy and the 
consequential issue of the refunding of premiums. Having considered the available 
documentation, I didnt think esure did anything wrong in renewing the policy automatically. 
esure wrote to Mr K on 16 October 2016 about the renewal of his existing policy due in 
November. It thanked Mr K for advising about changes to his details and confirms the policy 
will automatically renew. It asks him to check the information and said further documents 
would be provided after renewal including if you pay by instalments, your new Loan/Credit 
Agreement. 
As Mr K called esure about this renewal I was satisfied he was aware of the basis of the 
arrangement. This included it automatically renewing unless he stopped it, which he didnt. 
So, I dont think esure did anything wrong in also automatically renewing the policy again in 
2017 and 2018. It didnt know Mr K had changed his email address and wasnt receiving 
communications.
The Dual Insurance
The purpose of an insurance policy is to put the policyholder back in the position they were 
in before an incident rather than have them make a profit from it, as they might if they had 
two insurance policies for the same thing. Where there is dual insurance each insurer we 
generally expect the insurers to be 50% liable in the event of a claim. 
Mr K hasnt provided any evidence he had cover elsewhere for this policy year 2016-2017, 
so I thought esure was entitled to recover the £204.05 premium in respect of that year. 
For 2017-2018 there was dual insurance and Mr K has recovered 100% of the premium 
through his bank. esure says it only agreed to 50%, this being normal insurance practice as 
it has a potential 50% liability for the claim Mr K made in February 2018. I understood this 
claim was for about £800 in total. 
I thought esure is correct in taking this view and its proposal that Mr K contacts P and 
informs it he was dual insured was reasonable. So, unless Mr K could provide evidence of 
dual insurance in 2016-2017, esure is owed the premium in full for that year and I thought 
that it is reasonable that 50% of the premium is owed for the 2017-2018 year. 
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 30 November 2020.
Response to provisional decision
Mr K said he had nothing to add as I had sided with the insurance company.
esure didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not to uphold the complaint.
Mr K isnt happy with my decision, but I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. In this case esure does appear to have followed the processes Mr K agreed 
to in terms of automatically renewing the policy, so it didnt make an error here. 
And it is entitled to recover the premium due for the year 2016-17, where there was no dual 
insurance and 50% of the premium where there was dual insurance and a claim made with 
the other insurer, which esure could become liable for. Mr K should be able to recover some 
of the premium paid to the other insurer if he approaches it. So, esure hasnt treated Mr K 
unfairly or unreasonably in seeking recovery of the premiums due and I wont be asking it to 
do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman