DRN-2309672
The complaint
Miss M complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund a cash withdrawal from her 
account that she says she didnt make.
What happened
Miss M says she reported her debit card as damaged on 3 April 2020 in a branch. She 
withdrew £40 at the counter at around 10:15am. And then went home and says that by 
10:45am the card was shredded by her father. So, she says she didnt and couldnt have 
made a cash withdrawal from her account at 11:21am that day.
Nationwide said that this withdrawal was made using the genuine card and that the correct 
PIN was entered. Miss M had no explanation for how her PIN could have been discovered. 
And so, it said it wouldnt be refunding her money.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Based on Miss Ms account 
there was no opportunity for someone else to use the card. But her account was inconsistent 
with the evidence from Nationwide that showed that the chip on the genuine card was read. 
And Miss M had said she had kept her PIN secret. So even if someone had the card there 
was no clear way in which the PIN was discovered. Even looking at CCTV as Miss M wanted 
wouldnt resolve things  because the person making the withdrawal would have needed to 
have a card that Miss M insists had already been shredded. Miss M had also said she 
noticed the withdrawal later the same day and she wasnt able to explain why she hadnt 
reported this until 6 April 2020.
Although Miss M had since shown she had been contacted later by Nationwide in December 
2020 about recent attempts to use an old card that would either mean those details had 
been retained to be used online or again that someone had the actual card. 
Miss M didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She thought she was being 
accused of lying. She maintained that the card had been shredded and cant understand 
how this withdrawal took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if a payment wasnt 
authorised Miss M wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Miss M authorise the payment on the account?
Ive seen the authorisation log of payments at the time from Miss Ms account and details of 
the relevant cards issued to her. We havent seen evidence of the chip on a card being 
cloned for general use. And the evidence here is that the card Miss M reported as damaged 
at about 10:15 that day was used in a cash machine to withdraw £100 within an hour. I can 
see that a balance enquiry was first made and then the cash taken out. And that the correct 
PIN was entered on the first occasion. I note that although Miss M had reported the card 
damaged it wasnt cancelled on 3 April 2020 but a new one was issued. That card wasnt 
cancelled until Miss M contacted Nationwide about the disputed payment at 12:15pm on 6 
April 2020.
Im satisfied that the payment was authenticated with the genuine card. That is in direct 
conflict to Miss Ms evidence that the card was by then destroyed. So, Im afraid I cant 
accept her explanation as the most likely one here. In addition to that there is no explanation 
for how an unknown third party could have obtained her PIN as well as the card. And for why 
Miss M didnt report this withdrawal for nearly three days having seen it come from her 
account. Even if CCTV was available it wouldnt resolve whether the person taking out the 
money was acting with her authority or not. And on the information available I dont see any 
plausible scenario in which Miss M didnt authorise the payment even if by allowing someone 
else to use her card.
I know Miss M will be very disappointed when I say that I dont have a reasonable basis to 
require Nationwide to refund this money to her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman