DRN-3354684
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limiteds claim handling, the
settlement, the further damage, and the delays he has encountered throughout, under his
commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P arranged insurance cover for a day so he could collect a van hed bought. After
collecting the van, he drove it for a few miles and then after refuelling smoke started to
appear from under the bonnet. The fire brigade checked the vehicle, disconnected the
battery, and said Mr P shouldnt drive it. Mr P contacted his insurers to make a claim.
Accredited investigated the claim and interviewed Mr P. Accrediteds repairers said the van
hadnt suffered any fire damage based on its inspection but a full inspection should be
carried out.
A second garage said a brand main dealer should check the vehicle as it couldnt find any
fire damage either. Accredited contacted Mr P asking him to take the van back and arrange
a main dealer inspection. Mr P didnt want the van back as he felt it was dangerous. No
agreement could be reached so Accredited arranged for the vehicle to be returned to Mr P.
Mr P later provided video evidence showing the returned van parked dangerously in the
road, it wouldnt start, and he pointed out what he said was new bodywork scratch damage.
Mr P got his own expert evidence. This said the fire was due to a battery lead and
connection. Mr P got an estimate written up and this included the repair costs for the new
scratched bodywork he referred to when the vehicle was returned.
After some more debates and delays Accredited did eventually arrange a main dealer
inspection. This noted a melted wiring loom but no fire damage. However, it did confirm that
even though it was a main dealer if a more detailed check was needed the van would need
to go to a commercial vehicle main dealer.
The van was returned to Mr P and he got some further expert evidence pointing out that
when it came back from the main dealer the engine cover had been left off, the fuel filter was
in the back of the van, the battery was disconnected, and the coolant tank was moved. Mr P
brought his complaint to this service as he was unhappy with all of this, the lack of
communication and the delays.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Accredited hadnt acted reasonably and it
should now pay for the components that were removed to be refitted and to pay £500
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused Mr P and his family.
As neither party agreed the complaint was passed on for an ombudsman decision. In my 
recent provisional decision, I said:
Accredited accepted that there had been some delays. It said with hindsight it should have
dealt with getting an inspection from a main dealer much sooner. But it also said there was
just no evidence of fire damage and everything pointed to an electrical fault which was
excluded under the policy.
Mr P said hed bought the van for work and was losing money due to being unable to use it
for that purpose. He said the policy was unclear and inconsistent and because of that he
should get the benefit in his favour.
Is the damage covered under the policy
The fire brigade confirmed it didnt need to use its appliance when it checked over the van
after Mr P saw smoke coming from under the bonnet. The reports Ive seen said there was
no fire damage found under the bonnet and no fire damage to the bodywork. Different
reasons have been provided for the cause of damage. But the policy doesnt cover any
mechanical, electrical, electronic, computer or computer software breakdown, failure, fault or
breakage. Based on the evidence provided it does seem as though the issue was electrical,
so, I think Accredited acted reasonably when it said the claim was excluded under the policy
wording. Accredited said Mr P will need to resolve the electrical fault issues through his own
repair at his own cost.
Mr P said the wording was unclear about the differences between fire damage and electrical
fault. I dont think thats the case. I think the wording applied by Accredited is along similar
lines to most standard commercial vehicle and motor policies on the market and the cover
included under this policy is normal.
Other damage and costs
Mr P sent in a video showing what he said was new damage to the bodywork of the van
once it was left outside his house by the main dealer. Accredited dispute that the bodywork
scratches occurred while the vehicle was in its possession. Theres no doubt that the van
was moved around quite a bit. But it wasnt just with Accredited, or the main dealer, the van
also spent time in storage arranged by Mr P. Accredited insist the damage is pre-existing. As
theres nothing definitive evidence wise, I cant say that Accredited is responsible for this
other damage.
Mr P has referred to other costs for moving the van at different times to and from storage,
the costs of a mechanic, having a new battery fitted and HGV recovery. Much of this was
done by Mr P without discussion with Accredited and Im not convinced it was all required. I
think Mr P said the van still didnt work after the battery had been changed, so I dont think I
should ask Accredited to pay for that. But I understand the point about the vehicle being left
in the middle of the road and not working when returned by the main dealer. In this situation
Mr P had to take action to move it. So, I think his costs for moving the vehicle at this point to
storage should be paid by Accredited once it has seen evidence of costs. If Mr P had to pay
to get the vehicle collected back out of storage after this the costs here should be paid too. I
understand that Accredited said it has no link to the main dealer but dealing with the vehicle
was in its hands at the time it was with the main dealer. Any issues that occurred with the
service provided by the main dealer are between it and Accredited. It would be unfair for
Accredited to step away from this as it was its initial requirement to have a main dealer
check the vehicle and it should have done this at the start of the claim.
Parts not refitted
Its accepted that some vehicle parts were removed during inspection and these werent
replaced before the van was returned to Mr P. I accept the van was returned in a poor
condition, didnt start, and some parts needed to be refitted. The vehicle was even parked
dangerously. I think it would be fair and reasonable for Accredited to pay the costs of these
items being refitted based on engineers report from Mr P in April 2021. These include theengine cover, the battery reconnection (if safe), the coolant tank and deal with the fuel filter
too. This would need to include any leakage or damage caused by the fuel filter while it was
placed in the back of the van. Accredited say the main dealer is responsible and theres no
direct link between itself and the dealership. If Accredited want to take the matter up with the
main dealer about these issues and costs then so be it, but that doesnt stop Accredited
getting the work done for Mr P. It can argue with the main dealer about that separately.
Accredited should have arranged for the check much earlier to avoid delays and it is unfair to
now try and leave this issue to Mr P to sort out.
Mould
Mr P said the upholstery is suffering from mould and partly suggests thats down to the
window being left open and partly due to the main dealer. I dont think theres any evidence
to support this, so I dont think Accredited has acted unreasonably here.
Claim handling and communication
Accredited accept it took too long to deal with the issues in this claim and that mistakes were
made. The investigation could have been done a lot quicker and I accept Mr Ps point that he
was having to chase up to find out what was going on. Accredited now accepts that it should
have in the first instance arranged for a main dealer to inspect the van rather than just send
the vehicle back to Mr P. It took many months to put this issue right. I dont think Accredited
acted fairly and reasonably regarding the claims handling and communication.
Storage costs
Accredited said it shouldnt have to pay these. For the £86.85 I think Accredited should pay
this as it was during a period when Mr P was asking it to take the van for inspection.
It said if Mr P had told it he needed to put the vehicle in storage it could have arranged for
this to be done for free. I dont accept that. The vehicle was returned to Mr P and his video
showed at one stage when returned to him that it didnt start despite what Accredited said.
Mr P wasnt happy to accept the vehicle back, it was in poor condition and he was very
worried about driving it at that stage. I understand why Mr P ended up putting the vehicle in
storage. I think Accredited need to refund Mr P the £950 costs run up here over the period
subject to proof of payment.
8% interest should apply to the already paid storage costs.
Engineers reports
Because of the issues that have mounted up with this claim Mr P has paid out for two
engineers reports. He says this is due to Accrediteds approach to his claim. I think he
makes a fair point here. The reports did suggest problems that Accredited hadnt picked up. I
dont think thats reasonable. It would be fair for Accredited to pay Mr Ps costs for the two
reports, subject to evidence.
8% interest should apply to the already paid engineers reports costs.
Compensation
Mr P said hed bought the van expressly for a new job he was going for and without the van
he was unable to work. But the evidence Mr P provided of this didnt confirm that he had the
job so Im not making an award for loss of earnings.
Our investigator recommended Accredited pay £500 as compensation for the distress andinconvenience caused to Mr P. Theres no doubt Mr P suffered here and Accredited caused
him distress and inconvenience. The communication was non-existent at times, the
willingness to carry out the appropriate inspections didnt materialise until very late in the day
and what, on the face of it, seemed to be a straightforward claim became a much bigger
issue. The delays throughout were too long and matters remained unresolved for Mr P. He
has spoken about the impact on him and his family, his health and that of his wife too.
Theres no doubt Mr P struggled with the stress and anxiety of the whole claim situation and
so, I think Accredited should pay him £750 as compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
Mr P feels the amount is too low and an insult to him. Accredited thinks the amount is high
and pointed out that once it was noted that a mechanical repair was required there was a
lack of co-operation from Mr P in taking his vehicle back. Based on the circumstances and
situation I think the £750 is fair. Theres no breakdown of this amount.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr P responded to say he hoped he could now get a final decision, but he didnt really have 
any further points to make.
Accredited made no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the limited responses Ive no reason to change my provisional decision and it 
becomes my final decision.
Putting things right
pay for the noted refitting and repairs to Mr Ps vehicle.
pay for costs to take the vehicle to storage when it was returned to Mr P by the main 
dealer and costs to transport vehicle back out of storage if required, subject to evidence.
pay £1,036.85 for storage charges up to 4 March 2021, upon receipt of proof of payment.
pay additional storage charges from 10 April 2021 to the date the vehicle leaves storage 
at the rate of £38 per week, upon receipt of an invoice and proof of payment.
pay for the two engineers reports upon proof of payment.
pay Mr P £750 compensation** for distress and inconvenience.
pay interest* at 8% on the storage charges and engineers reports that have already
been paid from the date of payment by Mr P to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I intend to require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to:
pay for the noted refitting and repairs to Mr Ps vehicle.
pay for costs to take the vehicle to storage when it was returned to Mr P by the main 
dealer and costs to transport vehicle back out of storage if required, subject to evidence.
pay £1,036.85 for storage charges up to 4 March 2021, upon receipt of proof of payment.
pay additional storage charges from 10 April 2021 to the date the vehicle leaves storage at the rate of £38 per week, upon receipt of an invoice and proof of payment.
pay for the two engineers reports upon proof of payment.
pay Mr P £750 compensation** for distress and inconvenience.
pay interest* at 8% on the storage charges and engineers reports that have already
been paid from the date of payment by Mr P to the date of settlement.
*If Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It
should also give Mr P a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
**Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the
date on which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman