DRN-4198850
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted unfairly 
by continuing to apply charges to their accounts when they were in financial difficulty. They 
say the overdraft charges applied pushed them into further debt.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B complained to NatWest about the overdraft charges NatWest applied to their 
accounts ending 7180 and 8969. NatWest said all the overdraft fees charged to Mr and Mrs 
Bs accounts were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. But as a 
gesture of goodwill it refunded overdraft charges and fees on both accounts from May 2022 
amounting to £212.52.
Mr and Mrs B were dis-satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service. One of 
our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Bs concerns and thought that account ending 7180 
hadnt shown signs of financial difficulty and was overall being managed well. 
But they thought that account ending 8969 hadnt been able to see or maintain a credit 
balance for an extended period of time and thought that NatWest shouldve realised that Mr 
and Mrs B were in financial difficulty and refunded the overdraft charges applied to the 
account from August 2017. 
NatWest hasnt responded and so Mr and Mrs Bs complaint has been progressed for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about the proportionality of the charges applied to their 
accounts with NatWest for the use of its overdraft facility. They would like these charges 
refunded with interest. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent 
considered whether the various amounts NatWest charged over the years were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at NatWests various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs B if 
it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr and Mrs Bs accounts in circumstances where 
it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr and Mrs B were 
experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Mr and Mrs B 
fairly and reasonably. 
Account ending 7180
Having carefully reviewed the statements for this account I dont think that NatWest did treat 
Mr and Mrs B unfairly or unreasonably in applying overdraft charges here. I say this because 
having a detailed look at Mr and Mrs Bs statements they present a somewhat chaotic 
picture and I dont think it can be said from the statements alone that it was clear Mr and Mrs 
B were in financial difficulty prior to them getting in touch with it, rather than a 
mismanagement of their financial affairs. 
Although Mr and Mrs B used their overdraft the account received a regular healthy salary 
into it and was able to see a credit balance most months. I can also see there were regular 
and sometimes large cash transfers in and out. In April 2017 there was a transfer in of 
around £140k). Although I can see some of this went to pay credit cards, I can also see that 
a significant proportion went to other accounts. 
So although it is clear Mr and Mrs B were using the overdraft on this account, given the 
transactions on the statements, I dont think there is enough on them which ought to have 
alerted NatWest to any potential financial difficulty. 
Mr and Mrs B have also told us that Mrs B suffered a medical incident in June 2018 which 
led to ongoing health problems which meant their salary was reduced as she couldnt work. I 
sympathise with Mrs B, but I havent seen any evidence that NatWest was made aware of 
this when it happened. And the account in question was still receiving the same incoming 
credits for the period in question.
So, in these circumstances I cant say NatWest ought to have known Mr and Mrs B were 
struggling financially or that it did anything wrong and I dont think that it was unreasonable 
for NatWest to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr 
and Mrs Bs account ending 7180 was being used. 
Account ending 8969
But Im in agreement with our adjudicator in that I think NatWest acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from August 2017.  By this point, it 
ought to have been clear that Mr and Mrs B were in no position to sustainably repay what 
they owed within a reasonable period of time on this account. 
By this point, NatWest ought to have realised that Mr and Mrs Bs use of their overdraft was 
unsustainable. Mr and Mrs Bs statements show that they were consistently overdrawn and 
near the top of their limit and although at times there were credits in that paid down the 
overdraft often the same amounts would go out and Mr and Mrs B would once again be near 
the top of their overdraft limit. Although at times Mr and Mrs B did make transfers into the 
account, they were not regular and overall the overdraft was not reducing and was being 
funded from the overdraft facility on their other account.  
I accept that Mr and Mrs B dont appear to be using the account as their main account and 
the vast majority of the transactions on Mr and Mrs Bs account were discretionary, non-
committed transactions. But this doesnt mean that NatWest should continue to allow the use 
of what should be short term lending to continue for an extended period of time. NatWest 
ought to have realised that Mr and Mrs B were at a significant risk of being unable to repay 
what they owed. 
So I think NatWest should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and 
treated Mr and Mrs B with forbearance rather than charge even more interest, fees and 
charges on the overdraft facility for account ending 8969. Mr and Mrs B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on their overdraft and 
this ended up exacerbating difficulties they already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
NatWest didnt treat Mr and Mrs B fairly and they lost out because of what NatWest did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Mr and Mrs Bs current overdraft balance on account ending 8969 so 
that all interest, fees and charges applied to it from August 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Mr and Mrs B to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan, Mr and Mrs B are encouraged to get in contact with and 
cooperate with NatWest to reach a suitable agreement. If it considers it 
appropriate to record negative information on Mr and Mrs Bs credit file, NatWest 
should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking 
corrective action on the overdraft in August 2017. NatWest can also reduce 
overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as 
long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr and Mrs B over their limit.
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr and Mrs B along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then NatWest should remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs 
Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs B complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc in relation to account ending 8969.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman