DRN-3004374
The complaint
Mrs K complains on behalf of her late husbands, Mr Ks estate, that he was given unsuitable 
investment advice by Zurich Assurance Ltd, formerly Allied Dunbar, referred to as Zurich. 
Mrs K is being assisted by a Claims Management Company (CMC). 
What happened
On 23 June 1993, Mr K was advised to invest £25 a month in the Maximum Investment Plan 
(MIP), in the Managed Fund, with indexation. The MIP also provided £4,500 worth of life 
cover, which was a minimum requirement in order to keep the policy qualifying for tax 
purposes. 
The MIP matured in 2003, and Mr K received £3,104, having contributed a total of £3,639. 
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said:
The recommendation was suitable. 
The life cover included was minimal and included a tax benefit. 
Mr K was in a reasonable financial situation with no debts other than a mortgage. 
He had a small amount of savings, and a financial product providing protection. 
His objective was to save for the benefit of his children. Therefore, he wouldve been 
prepared to accept a higher risk with a smaller portion of his money. 
The plan documentation made clear that the returns were dependent on the fund 
performance.    
Unhappy with Zurichs response, the CMC referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In short, 
he said:
Based on Mr Ks circumstances  namely that he was employed, with a stable 
income and some savings, and no planned expenditure  he had capacity to invest 
(in the medium to long term) and take a risk-based approach.  
Due to the passage of time, Zurich was unable to provide a fund factsheet, but 
provided a link to the Managed Fund. The link showed that the asset allocation in 
equities was around 50%-75% with a risk rating of five out of seven. In other words, it 
was suitable for:
oHigh risk and reward investors
 '5 - Medium to high risk' investor: likely to understand that the investment 
can go down and up sharply with the potential for greater returns over the 
long-term. 
Given that Mr Ks recorded attitude to risk was two out of four (one being very 
cautious and four being speculative  the recommendation wasnt suitable. In other 
words, the MIP was too much risk for Mr K. 
Despite what Zurich says, Mr K, as an inexperienced investor, was unlikely to have 
appreciated the risks involved. 
Despite the benefits of having life cover  namely qualifying for tax purposes, and 
protection in the event of Mr Ks untimely death  his objective was to save money 
and for capital growth. In the circumstances, given that the MIP was unsuitable the 
life cover benefit is irrelevant. 
Hes unable to say that the charges werent explained to Mr K. However, as a first-
time investor, its unlikely he wouldve fully understood the impact of the charges  in 
other words it wouldnt have meant much to him. 
Mr K was likely to be aware that the investment carried some risk, and therefore 
remained invested until maturity. 
Zurich disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, it made the following 
observations:
Mr K started the policy in 1993  28 years ago  keeping the policy for the term until 
maturity in 2003. No complaint was made at the point of maturity. Mr K has now 
complained via a CMC. 
Its sorry that the investigator was told that the Bulletin from when the investment 
commenced wasnt available. A copy provided confirmed the split of investment and 
shows the average annual growth rates  which shows that in1992 the fund 
performed its highest. Nevertheless, its important that the advice is assessed on the 
1993 landscape, when Mr K took out the investment. 
The recommendation was suitable and Managed Fund met Mr Ks objectives. At the 
time the industry hadnt developed more specific funds. A customers risk profile was 
more likely to influence the proportion of their available capital invested in real 
assets. 
The MIP was a disciplined means of saving.  
Mr K may well have had a different attitude to investing this sum in a fund carrying a 
balanced / diversified approach, because the intention was to invest in the medium to 
long term. 
The philosophy of the managed fund was to maintain a spread of investments both 
by asset type and economy to produce returns over the long term in keeping pace 
with inflation. So, investing in funds with equites and bonds is better. 
The investigator having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
The evidence provided by Zurich in response to his view, showed the following fund 
asset allocation:
o56% in UK equities
o4% in American Equities
o9% in European Equities
o13% in Far Eastern  Pacific Equities
o6% in Property
o8% in Gilts and Bonds
o4% in Currency Deposits & Cash
Based on the above information, the Managed Fund  comprised of 82% equity  
carried an unsuitable level of risk. In other words, Mr K, as an inexperienced investor, 
had his money exposed to a high portion of equity  including 26% exposed to 
overseas equity that carried an additional currency risk. 
Despite the regulations being different, hes considered Mr Ks circumstances on an 
individual basis, and having done so, he cant say that the investment risk was 
suitable. Mr K wanted something with a cautious risk and not something that was akin to a balanced risk. 
Based on everything hes seen, hes unable to say the MIP was suitable for Mr K.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Zurich says, Im not persuaded 
that the recommendation was suitable for Mr K.
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Ks strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for the recent loss 
of her husband, Mr K. I appreciate that this must be a difficult time for her and the family. 
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs K wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the CMC and Zurich, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I dont disagree with the investigators view regarding Mr Ks capacity to invest. Given his 
age and financial circumstances, Im satisfied that he had capacity to invest £25 a month in a 
medium to long term risk-based investment. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Mr K was willing to take some 
risk with his money, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr K was risk averse. I also dont 
think that Mr K was unaware that the investments could go up or down, or that any 
illustration figures, were estimates and that they werent guaranteed. However, having the 
capacity to invest and replace losses, doesnt make an unsuitable investment suitable. 
Despite what Zurich says, on balance I dont think Mr K wouldve been aware of the risks 
involved. I note he was a first-time investor, with no experience of the stockmarket, and a 
recorded risk appetite of two out of four  one being very cautious, and four being 
speculative. Therefore, in the circumstances, based on the information provided by Zurich, I 
dont think a plan invested in 82% equity, or even 73% invested in equities as initially 
suggested, was suitable for Mr K. Whilst I appreciate the benefits of investing in equities, on 
balance I think the current recommendation was unsuitable for the reasons Ive explained. 
On balance, I cant safely say that Mr K was comfortable or content with the level of risk he 
was taking or that the recommendation was suitable, just because there was a discussion 
surrounding his risk appetite which I appreciate was an opportunity for Mr K to identify his 
risk appetite. Im mindful that the CMC says that Mr K had little command of English, no formal education or understanding/experience of the stockmarket into which he was 
invested. The CMC also referred to two endowment plans sold by Zurich which it says Zurich 
subsequently refunded, but that hasnt in this case influenced my decision to uphold the 
complaint. 
Whilst its not entirely clear why Mr K mightve needed more life cover, Im mindful that he 
already had three protection plans, I think its likely given the nominal cost and qualifying tax 
benefit  and the fact that he was married with three dependent children  additional life 
cover wasnt something he wouldve objected to, notwithstanding his objective for capital 
growth. And I think his family probably wouldve benefited from additional cover too.
I should make clear that Im not upholding this complaint just because of the poor returns, 
which Zurich has no control over. Im upholding this complaint because on balance I think Mr 
K was given unsuitable advice. In other words, he was advised to take too much risk. 
Im mindful of what the investigator suggested in terms of redress, but in the circumstances, I 
think Zurich should do the following:
 
Pay Mr Ks estate compensation of D + E, where:
A = the premiums invested up to the date of surrender;
B = a return on each premium at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded 
yearly, from the date it was paid to the date of surrender;
C = the surrender value Mr K received;
D = (A + B) - C, representing the investment loss at the date of surrender; and
E = simple interest at 8% per year on D, from the date of surrender to the date 
compensation is paid.
I understand that Zurich, having had an opportunity to consider my proposed redress 
methodology, has no objection. 
  
Putting things right
Zurich Assurance Ltd must pay Mr Ks estate compensation of D + E, where:
A = the premiums invested up to the date of surrender;
B = a return on each premium at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded 
yearly, from the date it was paid to the date of surrender;
C = the surrender value Mr K received;
D = (A + B) - C, representing the investment loss at the date of surrender; and
E = simple interest at 8% per year on D, from the date of surrender to the date 
compensation is paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Zurich Assurance Ltd must calculate and pay Mr Ks estate redress as set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and the 
estate of Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 Dara Islam
Ombudsman