DRN-2223452
The complaint
Ms B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a credit card account that started in 1983. 
Theres only limited information now available and Lloyds cant confirm how or exactly when 
PPI was sold to Ms B.
Ms B says she took out the PPI when she applied for her card during a meeting at the bank. 
So I think its likely that is probably what happened. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms B disagrees with our adjudicators view. 
Ms B mainly said that the PPI wasnt presented as optional and it just came automatically 
with the credit card. She told us she wouldnt have taken PPI if she had understood PPI was 
optional as she didnt need it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The original paperwork from the sale is no longer available. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
rely on Ms B being able to remember everything as it happened so long ago. So I cant know 
exactly what Lloyds said to Ms B about the PPI, if anything, when she took it out. 
I have to look at everything and decide what I think is most likely. 
Based on what we know about the way Lloyds usually sold PPI around this time, Ive no 
reason to think that PPI was automatically added onto her credit card. I think its more likely 
that Ms B wouldve had to say if she wanted PPI because her credit card couldve been 
issued without PPI. 
Based on what shes told us about her financial situation at the time, it looks to me as if Ms B 
couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim. 
So, on balance, this makes me think its more likely that Ms B decided she wanted to have 
the benefits PPI offered and Lloyds added PPI to her account at her request, even if 
understandably she no longer recalls that. 
As Lloyds wasnt sure how it sold the PPI and Ms B thought shed taken it out during a 
meeting at the bank, in fairness to her Lloyds treated this as an advised sale  so, as if it had 
personally recommended PPI to Ms B. 
I think thats the fairest way to look at this complaint as it imposes an extra obligation on 
Lloyds and giving Ms Bs complaint the best chance of success. So I've looked at it this way 
too. This means Lloyds not only shouldve given Ms B important policy information in a clear 
way. It also shouldve taken reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommended was 
suitable for her. And if Lloyds didn't do those things, Ive thought about whether this makes 
any overall difference.  
It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable for Ms B based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. 
Ive taken into account what Ms B told us about the sick pay she couldve relied on getting 
from her employer. But the PPI wouldve covered her for accident or sickness for 
significantly longer than she couldve relied on her sick pay entitlement at work - paying out 
for up to 12 months per claim, on top of her work sick pay. So I think the policy couldve 
provided a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out in the event Ms B lost her job unexpectedly and was 
out of work. 
Repeat claims were possible under the policy. And if Ms B had claimed successfully for 
12 months in a row, the policy would've cleared her card balance. 
Ive taken into account that Ms B had some savings at the time. But I dont know if she 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if shed needed to make a claim. And the amount of 
savings shes mentioned doesnt make a PPI recommendation unsuitable for her. 
PPI wouldve helped Ms B protect any savings as she wouldnt have had to rely on these to 
pay her credit card. So this information isnt enough to make me think this is a complaint 
I should uphold.  
Overall, I think PPI was worthwhile for Ms B. It gave her useful protection, taking into 
account what shes told us about her situation when she took out this PPI, and I find that the 
policy was suitable for her.
Some of the information Lloyds gave Ms B about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would cost, or what 
it might pay out if Ms B made a claim. But Ms B chose to take out the policy when she didnt 
have to. So she seems to have wanted this type of cover. The cost was shown on her 
monthly statements and Ms B couldve queried this or cancelled the policy at any time if her 
circumstances changed and she no longer wanted to pay for it - as she later did.
Looking at the likely policy terms, I think Ms B was eligible for the cover. It doesnt look as if 
Ms B was affected by any of the main policy limitations or exclusions that mightve made it 
difficult for her to make a successful claim. So, I dont think having more information about 
what the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to her decision to take out PPI.
Looked at overall, I think its unlikely that having better information wouldve put Ms B off 
taking out the policy. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Ms B.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because: Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Ms B has said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. 
I appreciate she feels strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will 
come as a disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points that have an 
impact on the outcome of this complaint. And although she mentioned some other things 
during the course of this complaint I can see that our adjudicator has already dealt with 
those issues. Theres nothing more I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has already 
said. But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached 
my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman