DRN-2896319
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that HDI Global Specialty SE unfairly declined their claim on their 
home insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had home insurance that was underwritten by HDI. In 2018 a refuse depot 
next to their home was demolished. Mr and Mrs W said this caused significant vibrations at 
the time. Shortly after this they noticed cracks in their property.
They originally raised a complaint directly with the demolition company. However they were 
advised instead to raise an insurance claim. 
HDI sent out a contractor to inspect the cracks. They said further investigation would be 
needed to determine the cause. After this a specialist contractor attended. He concluded that 
each of the cracks was caused by maintenance or poor workmanship. So he said the 
damage wouldnt be covered under the policy.
Mr and Mrs W disputed this and made a complaint. They provided their own report from a 
builder that they said supported their opinion that the damage was caused by the demolition.
In response HDI agreed to carry out another survey. It instructed an expert who carried out a 
desktop review of the evidence. He concluded that the damage wasnt caused by the 
demolition and agreed with the conclusions from the first report.
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with this and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that none of the reports 
provided from either side proved the cause of the damage. So she said a further report 
would be needed and HDI should be bound by the findings of the report. She also thought 
HDI should pay for the repairs that Mr and Mrs W had already carried out as well as any 
interest on the credit they had taken out to do so. Finally she recommended they pay £300 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it had caused Mr and Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs W accepted our investigators view. However HDI didnt. It said it had already 
carried out three reports and didnt see the benefit of a fourth. Further it didnt agree it was 
fair for it to pay for the repairs that had been carried out when it hadnt been decided if the 
damage was covered under the policy. And it didnt agree it should pay any compensation. It 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
When the complaint came to me, I came to a slightly different outcome to our investigator. 
While I agreed that a further report should be carried out and the compensation is due, I 
didnt agree that HDI should pay for the repairs that had already been completed before the 
claim is validated. I wrote to both sides to explain my findings and invite any comments.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree that HDI should only pay for repairs if there is a valid claim. They 
thought theyd done enough to show that the damage to the window was accidental damage 
and should be covered by the policy. They also said they had no choice but to carry out the 
repairs, in order to ensure no further damage was caused. 
HDI agreed that it shouldnt pay for the repairs that had been carried out. However still 
disagreed that a further report was necessary. It also said that it should only pay 
compensation if a valid claim is proved and accepted.
Ive considered these comments when reaching my final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have made a claim under the accidental damage peril of the insurance policy. 
However HDI has said that it doesnt believe there is accidental damage and instead the 
damage has been caused over time and due to maintenance issues.  Both sides have 
provided expert reports to support their arguments.
Ive considered the reports and I agree with our investigator that none of them are 
conclusive. 
HDIs first report makes findings that Mr and Mrs W have provided evidence to disprove. And 
its second report is a desktop report that makes no comment on the opposing evidence and 
maintains the original position without investigating the comments further. Due to this, I dont 
consider the report to be reliable, as it hasnt addressed the issues raised by Mr and Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs Ws report concludes that the damage hasnt been caused by subsidence. 
However it doesnt draw conclusions on what has caused the damage other than saying it 
was caused by other factors.
From the evidence, Mr and Mrs W have shown that there is damage to their property that 
appears in line with accidental damage. And HDI hasnt done enough to show that the 
damage wouldnt be covered under the policy due to an exclusion or that there is no 
accidental damage. While its first report suggests that each problem has been caused by 
issues that wouldnt be covered under the policy, since the report Mr and Mrs W have 
provided enough evidence to at least cast doubt on these conclusions. However HDI hasnt 
responded to this evidence, nor has it sent another contractor to inspect the damage in light 
of this. So I dont think it has done enough to show that there isnt an insured peril covered 
by the policy.
For this reason I agree with our investigator that a new, independent, survey should be 
carried out to decide if the damage is covered. HDI should provide the names of three 
structural engineering companies to carry out the report and Mr and Mrs W should pick 
which they would prefer. HDI should pay for the report and be bound by its findings. If it 
shows there is an insured peril, HDI should accept the claim and settle it in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.  
At this stage, it hasnt been confirmed that there is an insured peril that is covered under the 
policy. So I maintain my opinion that it wouldnt be fair to ask HDI to pay for the costs of 
repairs Mr and Mrs W have carried out until such a time that a valid claim is accepted. 
Therefore if the independent report shows that there is any valid claim, HDI should 
reimburse Mr and Mrs W for the cost of the repairs carried out to date. As they have 
explained they took out a loan to complete this work, HDI should also pay any interest 
accrued on this borrowing. I have also considered the distress and inconvenience HDI has caused Mr and Mrs W. HDI 
has said that as a valid claim hasnt been proved yet, it shouldnt pay compensation until it 
has. I have considered this but I dont agree. 
After the first report, Mr and Mrs W have gone to some lengths to prove the inaccuracies 
they identified. This has caused them inconvenience. Further, once this evidence was 
received by HDI I would have expected it to carry out further investigations. However, it has 
taken a complaint coming to us for this to be done. Had HDI taken Mr and Mrs Ws 
objections more seriously, its likely they would now have an answer on whether the damage 
is covered. Which would mean they wouldnt have had to suffer the distress of not knowing 
whether it would be covered and having to live with the cracks in their house. Therefore I 
agree with our investigator that HDI should pay Mr and Mrs W £300 compensation to make 
up for this distress and inconvenience.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I require HDI Global Specialty SE to:
Provide the names of three independent structural engineering companies to carry out a 
report to comment on the cause of the damage to Mr and Mrs Ws house. Mr and Mrs W 
should select which one should carry out the report. 
Pay for the report.
Be bound by the findings of the report. Any damage covered under the policy should be 
accepted as a claim and settled in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Where there is any valid claim, reimburse Mr and Mrs W for the repair work they have 
already carried out, plus any interest accrued due to borrowing for the repairs.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman