DRN-2228631
The complaint
Mr B complains that Pepper (UK) Limited (trading as Engage Credit) has overcharged him 
during the life of his mortgage.
Following receipt of a third-party audit, he says hes due a refund of around £15,000.
What happened
Mr B has an interest only mortgage which has been administered by Engage since 
December 2014. Due to the arrears on the mortgage, Engage has begun taking legal action 
to repossess the property, although this has been on hold whilst our service has been 
investigating the complaint.
In 2018 Mr B engaged with a solicitor about his mortgage account. The solicitor complained 
on Mr Bs behalf, explaining that following an audit of the account, they believed Mr B had 
been overcharged around £15,000 on his mortgage. They said the reason for this was 
because the business had failed to calculate the correct amount of interest charges and 
payments. And that the business has levied other charges and fees to the account which 
were unwarranted or excessive. 
Engage responded and explained they were satisfied the interest and charges had been 
calculated and applied to Mr Bs mortgage correctly, in line with the terms and conditions of 
the mortgage. However, they also invited the solicitor to provide more detail about their 
calculations or reasoning for the amount they said Mr B was due, so they could investigate 
further. The solicitor sent Engage a copy of the audit report theyd relied on to make the 
claim, but Engage replied to say they would still need specific details of the calculations used 
to conduct a full review and respond accordingly. 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service directly. He said that hed been overcharged on 
the mortgage, and he was worried about the action Engage were taking now to recover the 
arrears on the mortgage. He said he was struggling to make the monthly payments. 
Although Mr B referred his complaint to our service more than six months after Engage sent 
their final response letter, Engage gave us consent to consider the complaint.
Our investigator explained that he could only consider the complaint that had been made to 
Engage about the outcome of the audit. He said as Engage had only administered the 
mortgage since 2014, he could only consider the interest and charges applied by them since 
that date. Having done so, he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr B accepted that we could only look at what Engage had done since 2014, but asked for 
the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman as he still felt hed been overcharged, so 
the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Engage have provided a copy of the third-party audit report Mr B is relying on to say hes 
been overcharged. This states that Mr B has been overcharged by over £15,000 on his 
mortgage due to the business overcharging interest, and applying fees and charges to the 
account that were either unwarranted or excessive.
The interest charged
Mr Bs mortgage offer states that the mortgage would be on a fixed rate of interest until 
September 2010, when the mortgage would switch to the reversion rate of 2.49% above 
London Inter Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The audit provided does not include a detailed 
breakdown of how the overcharged interest has been calculated specifically in relation to Mr 
Bs account, and Mr B hasnt told us why he thinks hes been charged too much either. Ive 
not seen any evidence from looking at the mortgage statements and transaction history that 
suggests Mr B has been charged more interest than he should have been. 
Mr B hasnt always been able to make his full monthly payment, and so there have been 
arrears on the mortgage account, as well as fees and charges added to the balance. As a 
result, the overall interest Mr B will be paying on his mortgage will be more than what was 
agreed in the original mortgage offer, but that doesnt mean its been charged incorrectly. 
Overall, Im not persuaded based on the evidence Ive seen, that Mr B has been charged 
more interest than he should have been in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage 
account.
Fees and charges
The audit provides a statement of the fees it says are either unwarranted or disproportionate 
and so shouldnt have been charged. Included in this are the fees that were added to the 
mortgage at the time Mr B took it out, which as the investigator explained, were not able to 
consider under this complaint against Engage. But the audit also lists other fees that have 
been added to the mortgage since inception which it says should not have been charged, 
such as monthly arrears fees, solicitors costs, and field agent costs. 
In order to decide whether I think these fees and charges have been applied to the mortgage 
account fairly, Ive looked at whats happened since Engage took over administration of the 
mortgage, the payments Mr B has made, and the conversations that have taken place 
between Mr B and Engage.
Mr Bs mortgage account was already in arrears when Engage took over, and I can see from 
the contact notes that Engage made several attempts to contact Mr B about his situation and 
how these arrears were going to be repaid. The Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) 
began making payments towards the mortgage in 2015, but unfortunately these werent 
always enough to cover the contractual monthly payment (CMP) each month, and they still 
werent reducing the arrears that were already on the mortgage.  
Unfortunately, Mr B had become unemployed and so for the majority of the time he was 
unable to supplement the payments being made by the DWP. I can see Engage made 
regular attempts to contact Mr B about his situation, but they were rarely able to speak to 
him. As a result, for the most part there werent arrangements in place to ensure the CMP 
was covered, or to reduce the arrears. During these months where the CMP wasnt met 
Engage charged arrears management fees. Im satisfied these were charged in line with the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage account and the tariff of charges. Im persuaded it was 
fair for Engage to charge these fees where they were unable to speak to Mr B about his plans to repay the mortgage, despite making several attempts both over the phone and in 
writing. 
Engage instructed a field agent to visit Mr B at the property on two occasions. In both 
instances Im satisfied it was reasonable for them to do this as they hadnt heard anything 
from Mr B for some time despite several attempts to contact him, and the CMP wasnt being 
met. As a result, Im satisfied it was fair for Engage to charge Mr B for these visits in line with 
the tariff of charges for the account. 
Engage took legal action to recover the arrears on the account, and solicitors fees have 
been added to the mortgage balance as a result of this. Whilst legal action should generally 
only be considered as a last resort, as the arrears were increasing, and there was no contact 
from Mr B about how these arrears could be repaid, Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Engage to start legal action. Theyve sent us the invoices from the solicitors for the costs of 
this legal action. Im satisfied it was reasonable for Engage to pass these costs on to Mr B in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account.
The only other charge thats been applied to Mr Bs account since Engage took over, was for 
buildings insurance. Its a requirement of the mortgage that buildings insurance is in place, 
and I can see Mr B confirmed in a phone call to Engage that he didnt have his own buildings 
insurance. Engage had given him the opportunity to arrange his own, but I cant see he ever 
came back to confirm whether hed done this. As a result, Im satisfied it was fair for Engage 
to arrange this, and charge it to the mortgage in line with the tariff of charges.
The audit states that the arrears fees and solicitors costs are disproportionate, and so they 
shouldnt have been charged. Mr B hasnt provided any information about why he thinks the 
charges are disproportionate. The regulators rules do say that charges applied for a 
payment shortfall should be equal to or lower than a reasonable calculation of the costs of 
the additional administration required as a result of the customer having a payment shortfall. 
The actual amount of the charge did vary from year to year, but Engage have sent us 
evidence which demonstrates how theyve calculated these charges. Having reviewed this 
information Im satisfied theyve been charged in line with the regulators rules and so Im not 
persuaded they should be refunded to Mr B. Ive also seen evidence of the amounts the 
solicitors charged for the legal work associated with Mr Bs account. These costs were set by 
the solicitors and not Engage, so even though Mr B may feel the costs are disproportionate, 
Engage arent responsible for deciding those amounts. 
In summary I havent seen anything specifically to show that Engage have overcharged Mr B 
on his mortgage account. I note Mr B has since raised specific concerns about how hes 
going to repay the mortgage as hes still experiencing financial difficulties. Id encourage him 
to discuss his concerns with Engage, and he may also want to seek independent financial 
advice to help him with his overall situation.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman