DRN-3042737
The complaint
Mr R complains that an unregulated business called Commercial Land and Property Brokers 
(CL&P) introduced him to Options UK Personal Pensions LLP, (Options, which was trading 
as Carey Pensions UK LLP at the time of the relevant events) and gave him advice and 
made arrangements when doing so, despite not having the regulatory authorisation needed 
to do this.
Mr R says he was contacted by CL&P and, following its advice he transferred away from his 
personal pension plans to a Self invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and invested in two 
unregulated investments. 
A Claims Management Company (CMC) has brought Mr Rs complaint on his behalf. The 
CMC says Mr R was an inexperienced investor, and that Options failed to carry out the 
appropriate checks on CL&P. The CMC says that had Options carried out appropriate due 
diligence on CL&P, it wouldve been clear that no business introduced by it shouldve been 
accepted, so it says Options is responsible for Mr Rs losses. All references to Mr R will 
include submissions and/or evidence provided by the CMC.
What happened
Options
Options is a SIPP provider and administrator. At the time of the events in this complaint, Options 
was regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later became the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). Options was authorised in relation to SIPPs, to arrange (bring about) 
deals in investments, to deal in investments as principal, to establish, operate or wind-up a 
pension scheme, and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
CL&P
CL&P was an unregulated business based in Spain. At the time of the events here, one of 
the directors of CL&P was a Terence (Terry) Wright. On 15 October 2010, the following was 
published on the FSA website in a section called: Firms and individuals to avoid, which was 
described as: a warning list of some unauthorised firms and individuals that we believe you 
should not deal with:
ALERT
The Financial Services Authority (FSA) has today published this statement in order to 
warn investors against dealing with unauthorised firms.
The purpose of this statement is to advise members of the public that an individual 
Terence (Terry) Wright
is not authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry 
on a regulated activity in the UK. Regulated activities include, amongst other things, 
advising on investments. The FSA believes that the individual may be targeting UK 
customers via the firm Cash In Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service and the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme [FSCS] are not available if you deal with an 
unauthorised company or individual.
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to our Register of 
authorised firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
CL&P and Options
Options has told us that it was first approached by CL&P in 2011 and that it entered into 
discussions about accepting introductions from it. Options began to accept introductions 
from CL&P on 15 August 2011 and ended its relationship with it on 25 May 2012. Options 
says it carried out some due diligence on CL&P. It says it reviewed CL&P's profile, 
conducted searches, reviewed CL&Ps website and literature, and had conversations with 
CL&Ps representatives over the telephone.
I have set out below a summary of what I consider to be the key events and/or actions during 
the relationship between Options and CL&P, which Ive taken from the available evidence. 
This includes evidence from Mr Rs case file and generic submissions Options has made to 
us on other case files about its due diligence on, and its relationship with, CL&P.
Ive not seen any evidence to show Options carried out any due diligence on CL&P before it 
began accepting introductions from it. Rather, as I set out below, it began to accept 
introductions then carried out its due diligence whilst accepting business from CL&P. 
Some of what I set out below includes events which post-date Options acceptance of Mr Rs 
SIPP application and post-date Options sending his money for the investments. And as I set 
out in my findings, some of what Options found out about CL&P during the course of its 
relationship with CL&P, and the action it took, is relevant in this complaint even where it 
does post-date Mr Rs application and investments.
Summary
15 August 2011 - Options begins to accept introductions from CL&P.
20 September 2011 - Options conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which 
allows subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on a 
Zoe Adams and a Mark Lloyd. Ms Adams and Mr Lloyd were two of the people at CL&P that 
Options initially had contact with. This check did not reveal any issues.
27 September 2011 - Options asked CL&P to complete a non-regulated introducer profile. 
The form itself explains its purpose as follows: As an FSA regulated pensions company we 
are required to carry out due diligence as best practice on unregulated introducer firms 
looking to introduce clients to us to gain some insight into the business they carry out. 
Furthermore, when making this request, by email, Options Chief Executive, Christine Hallett, 
explained: ...we require for our compliance process to perform due diligence on companys 
who we enter into a business and professional relationship with.
29 September 2011 - The non-regulated introducer profile was completed by CL&P. It was 
completed and signed by Mr Wright, and confirmed the following:
CL&P was a Spanish firm and was trading from a Spanish address.It used an 0845 telephone number.
It had been trading for two years and had two directors  Mr Wright and Lesley Wright.
It had eight agents and promoted four unregulated investments.
It worked with four other SIPP operators.
Its source of business was referrals and web enquiries.
Its sales process involved a call and follow up emails.
It took 2-5% commission, and this was the source of its earnings.
Its staff had been given training and it had worked with various compliance officers.
The document makes no mention of Ms Adams or Mr Lloyd. After completing the document 
Mr Wright was asked to make the following declaration:
I declare the above is a true and accurate reflection of [name of individual or 
Firm] and that Options Pensions UK LLP can rely on this information.
I/we fully indemnify Options Pensions UK LLP against any costs incurred as a 
result of any inaccuracies within this form.
I/we also acknowledge and accept that Options Pensions UK will undertake any 
enquiries about the firm and its Directors/Partners it feels appropriate.
9 December 2011 - Options had a conference call with representatives of CL&P. During that 
call the issue was raised of consumers being offered cash incentives by CL&P to transfer or 
switch to a SIPP and make investments. The note of the call included the following:
[Options staff member] also raised a concern that a potential member had asked when 
they would receive their money from their Store First Investment, [CL&P representatives] 
confirmed that no clients or connected parties referred by CL&P receive any form of 
inducement for either establishing the SIPP or making the Store First Investment and that 
CL&P policy does not include offering inducements.
[Options staff member] emphasised that it is completely against all rules that clients or 
connected parties receive any form of inducement for making particular investments.
13 March 2012 - Options Head of Service and Operations said in an email to CL&P: On 
another matter, we need our Terms of Business for Non Regulated introducers in place 
between our two companies. So that our records are all straight from a Compliance 
aspect I attach the Terms of Business and have entered a commencement date of 15 
August 2011 which is the date of your first case with us and would be grateful if you could 
agree and complete the terms and return. The agreement was signed by CL&P on 20 
March 2012. It was signed by Ms Adams.
23 March 2012 - Options compliance support said in an email to CL&P:
To comply with our in house compliance procedures could you please supply the 
following information relating to CLP Brokers:
A copy of the latest set of accounts
A certified copy passport for each of the main directors/principals/partners of the 
company
29 March 2012 - a Team Leader at Options sent Ms Hallett an email with the subject  
03-29-2012 - Storefirst Investment Query re Cash Back [reference removed]. That 
email forwarded an email sent by the Team Leader to a consumer, which included the following: you mentioned in our conversation a cash back amount you are expecting 
in the sum of £1,800 from CL&P following completion of the Storefirst investment.  And 
the text addressed to Ms Hallett by the Team Leader said: this is the second member 
this week to ask when are they getting their money.
3 April 2012 - Options compliance support followed up on its 23 March 2012 email: It is 
now becoming urgent that we receive the outstanding documentation. You very kindly 
passed this on to your colleague and I would be very grateful if we could receive the 
documentation as a matter of urgency Thank you in anticipation of your assistance. 
When asked, Options said it had no record of receiving the information from CL&P.
15 May 2012 - Options conducted a World Check on Mr Wright. The report included the 
following:
THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS REPORTED IN ONE OR MORE OF 
THE SOURCES BELOW
[FINANCIAL SERVICES WARNING]
Appears on the UK Financial Services Authority.
[REPORTS]
Appears on the FSA list of unauthorised firms and individuals,
INFORMATION SOURCES;
http://www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/Doing/Regulated/Law/Alerts/unauthorised.shtmI -
ARCHIVE
http://www.fsa.gov.uk/Pages/Doing/Regulated/Law/Alerts/lndex.shtml -
ARCHIVE
Entered: 2011/10/24
25 May 2012 - Options terminated its agreement with CL&P. Options Head of Service and 
Operation told CL&P of Options decision in an email to CL&P of that date:
Despite your assurances that no clients have been or will be offered 
inducements (monetary or otherwise) for making investments through their SIPPs 
with us, we have received enquiries as to when client can expect to receive their 
money and have today been informed by a new client that they are expecting 
circa £2,000 on completion of the Storefirst investment purchase, which they 
confirmed was offered by a member of your staff.
We have advised this client that we will not proceed with this case.
In light of this, it is with regret that I have to notify you that we are terminating our 
Introducer Agreement with you, with immediate effect, and can no longer accept 
business from you.
Store First
The Store First investment took the form of one or more self-storage units, which were part of a 
larger storage facility in a UK location. Investors bought one or more units in the facility and 
were offered a guaranteed level of income for a set period of time. After that, they could either 
take whatever income the unit(s) provided or sell them (assuming there was a market for them).The Store First investment was marketed as offering a guaranteed 8% return in the first two 
years, an indicated return of 10% in the following two years, and 12% in the next two years. 
It was also marketed as offering a guaranteed buy back after five years. But little of this 
materialised. It seems most investors received one or two years income of 8%, but nothing 
beyond that. And investors have found it very difficult to sell, with those that have sold 
receiving a small fraction of the amount they paid for their pods.
In the High Court judgment of Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP (formerly Options Pensions 
UK LLP) [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) (Adams v Options HC), the judge found the value of 
Mr Adams pods, acquired for around £52,000 in July 2012, to be £15,000 as of January 
2017. But several results of auctions of the pods show the sale price has been much lower 
than the price at which the pods were purchased.
In May 2014, the Self Storage Association of the UK (SSA UK) issued a press release 
(amended in January 2015), detailing the outcome of a review it had commissioned 
Deloitte LLP to undertake of the marketing material made available to potential investors by 
Store First. The release recommended that any potential investors in Store First storage units 
consider the following key points before taking any investment decision:
What will the impact be on the business model if VAT is charged on the rental of 
storage units to customers following a review by HMRC?
How is Store First funding guaranteed returns to investors? Is this from operating profits, 
the proceeds from the sale of other storage pods to investors, or a different source?
Compare the total value being paid for all the units in a Store First self storage site 
against the price at which stand-alone self-storage businesses have been valued and 
sold at recently.
Consider if there is a realistic re-sale opportunity for, and exit, from this investment, 
particularly if Store First exits the business.
Research the performance of investments based on a similar investment model that 
have been offered primarily in Australia, such as Ikin Self Storage in Townsville, 
Queensland and Strata Self Storage in Melbourne (these schemes had failed).
The release refers to a number of misleading and inaccurate statements made by Store First 
in its marketing material. It also makes the following observations:
SSA UKs investigations indicate that these storage units are being rented to the 
general public at approximately £18 - £21 per square foot including insurance. Normally 
the rent paid by a self-storage operator would be at most half of the income per square 
foot earned through storage fees. Presuming the Store First sites were at industry 
average occupancy levels, SSA UK believe that they would have to be earning £23.95 
per square foot just to pay the guaranteed rent to investors, excluding operating costs 
such as insurance, staff, business rates, utilities, marketing and management fees for 
Store First.
Store First is obliged to pay the guaranteed returns to investors, yet there does not 
appear to be sufficient income from the operations of the business to fund these returns.
The analysis SSA UK has seen indicates that the purchase price being paid per 
square foot by investors to Store First for these self-storage units taken together 
equates to a much higher value than they would be worth if the whole sites were sold 
as stand-alone self- storage stores.
...a very serious question arises over how Store First is funding the guaranteed 
returns to existing investors, considering the absence of bank funding and the likely level of losses that require funding in each new store. It may yet prove to be the case 
that the rental returns being paid to investors are in fact being funded from the sale 
proceeds of new units, and not the operation of the self-storage business.
On 30 April 2019 the courts made an order shutting down Store First and three of the related 
companies, by consent between those four companies and the Secretary of State. The 
Official Receiver was appointed as liquidator. At the time, the Chief Investigator for the 
Insolvency Service said:
These four companies unscrupulously secured millions of pounds worth of 
investments using a variety of methods that misled investors, particularly those with 
pension savings.
The court rightly recognised the sheer scale of the problem caused by Store Firsts 
sales of a flawed business model, based on misrepresentation and misleading 
information and has shut down these companies in recognition of the damage done 
to investors retirement plans.
Mr Rs investment in Store First was completed on 2 December 2011.
Walsall Burial Park (WBP)
Mr R also purchased the WBP investment. The WBP investment involved the purchase of 
individual burial plots based in Walsall Burial Park with the intention of selling them on for 
profit. Mr R invested a total of £2,400 in the WBP investment for two plots. 
The purchase of the WBP investment was completed on 17 October 2012.
Mr Rs dealings with CL&P and Options
Mr R had two personal pension plans valued at around £25,000 in total. After Mr R had been 
cold called by CL&P, he was persuaded to transfer his personal pensions into a SIPP with 
Options and to use the majority of the funds to purchase the Store First and WBP investments. 
These investments were unregulated and Mr R says they were recommended to him by CL&P. 
On 25 October 2011, Mr R signed his SIPP application with Options  the form was received 
by Options on 28 October 2011. The application form confirmed that Mr R intended to 
transfer one of his personal pension plans estimated to be around £20,000, into an Options 
SIPP and invest £17,000 in the Store First investment. 
Options also received a letter of authority from Mr R where he elected to use CL&P to act in 
relation to his pension arrangements which he signed on 10 November 2011. Options said 
it only received this letter two weeks after Mr R had decided he wished to transfer one of his 
personal pension plans and establish an Options SIPP. It pointed to the fact the SIPP 
application was completed on 26 October 2011.
On 1 November 2011 Options said it sent Mr R a welcome letter acknowledging the SIPP 
application. Options also sent a copy of the SIPP terms and conditions as well as a key 
features document to Mr R. The welcome letter confirmed that Mr Rs SIPP was established 
on 28 October 2011. 
In an email dated 14 November 2011, Options confirmed to Mr R that funds from his 
pension provider totalling £19,620.81 had been transferred to his Options scheme bank 
account. And in an email dated 30 August 2012, Options confirmed to Mr R that his second personal pension provider had transferred £4,425.57 into his Options scheme bank 
account.
Mr R completed an Options member declaration and indemnity form (the indemnity) in 
relation to the Store First investment which was signed by him on 18 November 2011. The 
indemnity, amongst other things, instructed Options to invest £15,000 into Store First. The 
indemnity signed by Mr R contained typed statements including the following:
I, [Mr R] being the member of the above Scheme instruct Carey Pension Trustees UK 
Ltd to Purchase a Leasehold Storage Unit(s) in the Store First investment through 
Harley-Scott Holdings Ltd for a consideration of £15,000, on my behalf for the above 
Scheme.
I am fully aware that this investment is an Alternative Investment and as such is High 
Risk and/or Speculative.
I confirm that I have read and understand the documentation regarding this investment 
and have taken my own advice, including financial, investment and tax advice.
I am fully aware that both Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK 
Ltd act on an Execution Only Basis and confirm that neither [Options] nor Carey 
Pension Trustees UK Ltd have provided any advice whatsoever in respect of this 
investment.
I confirm that my business/occupation is not renting out storage units.
Should any aspect of this investment be deemed by HMRC to provide Taxable 
Moveable Property and/or any tax charges be deemed by HMRC to apply in future 
these will be paid directly from the fund or by me as the member of the Scheme.
I also understand and agree that, in the event of my demise, if Carey Pension 
Trustees UK Ltd is unable to sell the asset within HMRC timescales that it may be 
transferred to my beneficiaries through my estate and accordingly may be subject to 
any Inheritance Tax.
I instruct Carey Pensions to appoint the following solicitor to act on behalf of the 
Scheme:
[details of solicitor]
I agree to Carey Pensions Trustees UK Ltd Pensions fee of £500 + VAT, amounting 
for transacting this investment.
I agree that any and all fees and costs will be paid by my Scheme, or in the event of 
default, by me personally.
I indemnify both Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees Ltd against any 
and all liability arising from this investment.
Mr R signed a similar indemnity for the WBP investment which was dated 8 October 2012 for 
the purchase of two burial plots at £1,200 each (total paid £2,400). The WBP indemnity also 
contained a typed statement which said: Neither I nor any person connected to me or 
associated with me has or will receive any form inducement whether monetary or otherwise 
for transacting this investment. Mr R has told our Service that he remembers being offered an incentive by CL&P but he 
cannot recall the amount and cannot recall receiving any payments in this regard. 
As noted above, Mr Rs investment in Store First was completed on 2 December 2011. And 
the investment in WBP was completed on 17 October 2012.
Mr Rs complaint
Mr R complained through the CMC about Options in September 2017. His main complaint 
was about the adequacy of Options due diligence process both in respect of the introducer, 
CL&P, and the investments he had made. He said that if Options had carried out sufficient 
due diligence checks, he would not have suffered losses to his pension. 
Options rejected the complaint. In brief, it said that as an execution only service it could not 
be held liable for Mr Rs losses. It added that he signed the indemnities which it said made its 
(Options) role clear, as well as making clear the risks involved in the investments. Options 
also noted that as an execution only service, it was under a regulatory duty to carry out the 
instructions of the client.
When the matter was brought to the Financial Ombudsman, the investigator recommended 
the complaint should be upheld mainly on the basis that Options should not have conducted 
any business with CL&P in the first place. In particular, the investigator noted the FSA Alert 
about Mr Wright issued in 2010, hadnt been sufficiently considered as part of Options due 
diligence process. Our investigator concluded that, but for Options failings, Mr R would not 
have suffered losses to his pension funds as he would likely have remained with his previous 
personal pension providers and/ or not invested as he had.
Options disagreed. It considered the warning about Mr Wright issued by the regulator in 2010, 
would not have been sufficient enough reason to not do business with CL&P. It said this is 
evidenced by a clearer, stronger warning issued by the regulator in relation to Mr Wright in 2013. 
Options considered it was clear in this second warning (Alert) that Mr Wright was not someone to 
do business with. But Options thought the first warning simply pointed out that Mr Wright was not 
regulated. Options also reiterated that as an execution only provider, it was under a regulatory 
duty to execute instructions from clients. It said not to do so would have been a breach of its 
duties in this regard.
A further view was sent to both parties more recently. Amongst other things, the investigator 
considered CL&P had breached the General Prohibition which in turn, made the SIPP 
agreement unenforceable under section 27 (s27) FSMA and therefore, provided another 
reason to uphold the complaint.
Options made no further comment following the subsequent view. And as no agreement could 
be reached, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out the reasoning for my decision, I consider it important for me to say that in 
considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules; guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.Relevant considerations
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses (the Principles) are of particular relevance 
to my decision. The Principles, which are set out in the FCAs (formerly the FSA) handbook: 
...are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN1.1.2G). I consider the Principles most relevant to this complaint include 
Principle 2, 3 and 6 which say:
-Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business 
with due skill, care and diligence.
-Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems.
-Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162: The Principles are best 
understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules are added. The 
Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not supplant them and 
cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific applications of them to the 
particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the 
application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to 
augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said: Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach 
of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles 
into account in deciding what would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even 
if no Principles had been produced by the FSA, the FOS [Financial Ombudsman Service] 
would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort of high 
level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are 
of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their 
relationship to specific rules.
In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging
the decision of an Ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
Ombudsman considered the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. The 
Ombudsman concluded it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken 
due diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that 
if it had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The Ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL): These passages explain the overarching nature of the 
Principles. As the FCA correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles 
is not merely to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that 
they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties 
such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers s228 FSMA and the approach an Ombudsman is to 
take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness 
of the approach taken by the Ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, 
and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as considerations 
that were required to be taken into account.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case, held that it would be a breach of statutory duty if 
I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J adopted a similar 
approach to the application of the Principles in Berkeley Burke. So, the Principles are a relevant 
consideration here and I will consider them in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
The Adams Court cases
I have taken account of the judgments of the Adams v Options HC and the Court of Appeal 
judgment in Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I note the 
Supreme Court refused Options permission to appeal the Court of Appeal judgement. Ive 
considered whether these judgments mean the Principles should not be taken into account 
in deciding this case. Im of the view they do not. In the High Court case, HHJ Dight did not 
consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the pleadings 
submitted by Mr Adams.
One of the main reasons why HHJ Dight found the judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL was not 
of direct relevance to the case before him was because: ...the specific regulatory provisions 
which the learned judge in Berkeley Burke was asked to consider are not those which have 
formed the basis of the claimants case before me. Likewise, the Principles were not 
considered by the Court of Appeal. So, the judgments say nothing about the application of 
the FCAs Principles to the Ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles and this 
rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options 
owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was actionable 
pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and 
found that Options had complied with the best interests rule on the facts of Mr Adams case.
Although Mr Adams appeal of the High Court judgment was partially successful, the Court of 
Appeal rejected the part of Mr Adams appeal that related to HHJ Dights dismissal of the 
COBS claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found this part of Mr Adams appeal 
did not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that in the High Court judgment, HHJ Dight found the factual context of a case would 
inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 148: In 
my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one has to 
identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the submissions of each of 
the parties that the context has an impact on the ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The 
key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the context is the agreement into which the parties 
entered, which defined their roles and functions in the transaction.The issues in Mr Rs complaint are different from the issues as pleaded in Adams. There are 
also significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and 
from the issues in Mr Rs complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of the 
Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual relationship 
between the parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that 
happened after the contract was entered into. In Mr Rs complaint, I am considering whether 
Options ought to have identified that the introductions from CL&P involved a risk of 
consumer detriment and, if so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting introductions from 
CL&P prior to entering into a contract with him.
On this point, I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules; guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Option. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding that Options was not obliged  and not 
able  to give advice to Mr R on the suitability of its SIPP or the investments for him 
personally. But Im satisfied Options obligations included deciding whether to accept 
particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business from 
particular businesses. And this is consistent with Options own understanding of its 
obligations at the relevant time. 
As noted above, the introducer profile completed at the outset of Options relationship with 
CL&P said: As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due 
diligence as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to 
gain some insight into the business they carry out.
S27/28 FSMA
The Court of Appeal overturned the High Court judgment on the basis of the claim pursuant to 
s27 FSMA. s27 FSMA provides that an agreement between an authorised person and another 
party, which is otherwise properly made in the course of the authorised persons regulated 
activity, is unenforceable as against that other party if it is made: ...in consequence of 
something said or done by another person (the third party) in the course of a regulated 
activity carried on by the third party in contravention of the general prohibition.
s27(2) provides that the other party is entitled to recover:
(a) any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the 
agreement; and 
 (b) compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of having parted 
with it.
s28(3) FSMA provides that:
If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in the circumstances of the case, it may 
allow
(a) the agreement to be enforced; or
(b) money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained.The General Prohibition is set out in s19 FSMA. It stipulates that:
no person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport to do 
so, unless he is 
(a) an authorised person; or
(b) an exempt person.
In Adams, the Court of Appeal concluded that the unauthorised introducer of the SIPP had 
carried out activities in contravention of the General Prohibition, and so s27 FSMA applied. It 
further concluded that it would not be just and equitable to nonetheless allow the agreement 
to be enforced (or the money retained) under the discretion afforded to it by s28(3) FSMA.
At paragraph 115 of the judgment the Court set out five reasons for reaching this conclusion. 
The first two of these were:
i) A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own decisions, there 
is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers from their own folly. 
That much reduces the force of Mr Greens contentions that Mr Adams caused his own 
losses and misled Carey;
ii) While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated 
sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so onto the 
providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce agreements and being 
required to return money and other property and to pay compensation regardless of 
whether they had had knowledge of third parties contraventions of the general prohibition;
The other three reasons, in summary, were:
The volume and nature of business being introduced by the introducer was such as 
to put Options on notice of the danger that the introducer was recommending clients 
to invest in the investments and set up Options SIPPs to that end. There was thus 
reason for Options to be concerned about the possibility of the introducer advising on 
investments within the meaning of article 53 of the Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO).
Options was aware that contrary to what the introducer had previously said, it was 
taking high commission from the investment provider. And that there were indications 
the introducer was offering consumers cash back and one of those running the 
introducer was subject to an FSA warning notice.
The investment did not proceed until after the time by which Options had reasons for 
concern and so it was open to Options to decline the investment, or at least explore 
the position with Mr Adams.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The September 2009 and October 2012 Thematic Review reports (the review or 
reviews).
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 review
The 2009 review included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are 
obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks 
to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF [treating customers 
fairly] consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the 
SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that 
SIPP operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would 
expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could 
then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member 
to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with 
reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate 
risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made 
to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can 
be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to 
seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, 
having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, 
making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons 
for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance (the guidance), the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 
and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective 
members and SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators 
include the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its 
approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and 
have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA 
website listings for un-authorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the 
firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the 
levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with.
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which 
may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for 
example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights 
and the reasons for this.Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, 
as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it 
administers.
Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the 
firm with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being 
used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting 
business from non- regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications 
and skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept 
investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach 
HMRC tax- relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not 
been approved by the firmThe July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. The Dear CEO letter 
also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in relation to investment due 
diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment.
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to 
fraudulent activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of 
assets is through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual 
agreements are correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point 
of purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment 
providers are credit worthy etc.).
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reviews and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance, whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is. However, the fact the reviews and 
Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance should 
be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles apply and are an indication 
of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its customers fairly and 
produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the publications, which 
set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators, should be doing also goes some 
way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice. Im, therefore, satisfied it 
is appropriate to take them into account in this case.
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the Ombudsman found that: the regulators reports [reviews], guidance and 
letter go a long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should 
not. And the judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
Ombudsman.
Like the Ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I do not think the fact the publications, (other than 
the 2009 review), post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Rs complaint, mean 
that the examples of good practice they provide were not good practice at the time of the 
relevant events. Although the later publications were published after the events subject to 
this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to 
act in accordance with the Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reviews (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014), 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards 
themselves had not changed.
I note HHJ Dight in the Adams case did not consider the 2012 review, 2013 SIPP operator 
guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his consideration of Mr Adams claim. 
But it does not follow that those publications are irrelevant to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im required to take into account good 
industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, the publications indicate what I 
consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time.
That doesnt mean that, in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Options actions with these documents in mind. The reviews, Dear CEO letter and guidance 
gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter 
notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances.
To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Options to ensure the 
pension transfer was suitable for Mr R. It is accepted Options was not required to give 
advice to Mr R, and could not give advice. And I accept the publications do not alter the 
meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But they are evidence of what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles.
What did Options obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business Options was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The regulatory 
publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by the FSA and FCA 
during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a particular introducer is 
appropriate to deal with. As noted above, its clear from Options non-regulated introducer 
profile, that it understood and accepted its obligations meant it had a responsibility to carry out 
due diligence on CL&P.
I am satisfied that to meet its regulatory obligations when conducting its business, Options 
was required to consider whether to accept, or reject, particular referrals of business with the 
Principles in mind. This seems consistent with Options own understanding. I note in 
submissions on other complaints Options has told us that adherence to TCF is something it 
had in mind when considering its approach to introducer due diligence i.e. the question of 
whether it should accept business from a particular introducer.
Overall, Im satisfied that in order to meet the appropriate standards of good industry 
practice and the obligations set by the regulators rules and regulations, Options should have 
carried out due diligence on CL&P which was consistent with good industry practice and its 
regulatory obligations at the time. And in my opinion, Options should have used the 
knowledge it gained from its due diligence to decide whether to accept or reject a referral of 
business or particular investment.
Due diligence on CL&P
The actions Options took  which were carried out after its relationship with CL&P began, 
rather than before it accepted business from it  are set out in detail in the background 
sections above. So, I will not repeat them here. However, I would note at this point that the 
actions Options took, in addition to being taken after Options began accepting business from 
CL&P, appear to have been taken on a reactive, piecemeal, basis. In addition, the available 
evidence shows Options did not meet its own standards when carrying out due diligence on 
CL&P. From late 2011, in accordance with its own standards (as submitted to us), it should 
have carried out company checks on CL&P, reviewed CL&Ps accounts, and checked 
sanctions lists. As I set out above, these standards appear to be consistent with good industry practice and 
Options regulatory obligations at the relevant time (although it is not clear what a check of 
sanctions lists would encompass). However, Options did not - in practice - act in a way 
which was consistent with good industry practice and its regulatory obligations at the 
relevant time. I explain this in more detail below.
The FSA list
CL&P was an unregulated business, based in Spain, and was proposing to deal with the
pensions of UK consumers. Options ought to have known the FSA kept a list of Alerts, 
relating to unregulated businesses, which were often based overseas. Options has not 
explained what a search/check of sanctions lists entailed. But I think a check of such lists 
should have included the FSAs list of Alerts.
In any event, as a SIPP operator considering accepting business from an unregulated overseas 
firm, it should have been mindful of the FSAs list of Alerts, and in compliance with its regulatory 
obligations, it ought to have checked this list before proceeding with accepting business from 
CL&P, whether it considered the FSAs list of Alerts to be a sanctions list or not.
At the relevant time, the FSAs list featured warnings (Alerts) about unauthorised individuals 
and businesses. And, in my view, checking the warnings posted on the FSAs website is 
something that Options should have done as a matter of course before it began accepting 
any business from CL&P. This is consistent with good industry practice as highlighted in the 
2009 review and later documents. And, I find it would have been fair and reasonable, and in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations, for such a check to take place before it entered 
into a relationship with CL&P.
As part of its independent checks, Options used a risk intelligence tool called World Check. 
I understand this is a tool which is internationally recognised and commonly used by 
businesses to carry out background searches. And, I assume its use was part of what 
Options describes as searches when explaining the due diligence standards it introduced in 
late 2011, (which, in my view, if they had been implemented effectively, were consistent with 
good industry practice and in compliance with Options regulatory obligations).
Although Options used the tool here, it failed to run checks on the appropriate persons at 
CL&P. On 20 September 2011 it ran checks on a Ms Adams and a Mr Lloyd. However, I 
understand that these individuals were only employees of CL&P and neither controlled nor 
managed CL&P. So, the fact the checks run on these individuals did not raise any issues is 
of little, if any, value. It does not mean that Options had met its regulatory obligations here. 
In my view, as a first step, Options ought to have carried out sufficient due diligence so as to 
properly establish who the directors or individuals who controlled CL&P were. Only then 
would it be able to run checks on the appropriate persons.
As part of its due diligence process, Options required CL&P to fill out a non-regulated 
introducer profile questionnaire. CL&P completed the questionnaire on 29 September 2011. 
And the profile named the two directors, one of which was Mr Wright. The profile made no 
mention of Ms Adams or Mr Lloyd. So, at this point, Options was aware Mr Wright was one 
of the directors of CL&P.
I note the profile CL&P completed asked the question: Are you and/or the Firm subject to 
any on-going FSA or other regulatory body review, action or censure. And, Mr Wright 
answered No to this question. However, it was not sufficient, in my view, to simply ask the 
introducer a general question. Rather, I think Options, acting fairly, with due regard to Mr Rs 
interests, should have carried out its own check on Mr Wright. And that appears to have 
been Options view too. Its comments suggest it understood it was good practice, consistent with its regulatory obligations, to make its own independent checks. So, it ought to have 
undertaken a check on Mr Wright before it began accepting introductions from CL&P.
Had Options checked the FSAs list in August 2011, it would have discovered that Mr Wright 
was the subject of the Alert which Ive set out above, so I wont repeat it again here. This 
Alert was issued on 15 October 2010. If Options had acted in accordance with its regulatory 
obligations and good industry practice at the relevant time it ought to have undertaken 
sufficient enquiries on CL&P to understand who its directors were, and checked the FSAs 
warning list as part of its due diligence on CL&P. Had it carried out these checks before 
accepting business from CL&P it would have discovered that CL&Ps director Mr Wright was 
on the FSA warning (Alert) list.
Cash incentives
In November 2011, Options become aware that: a potential member had asked when 
they would receive their money from their Store First Investment. This took place just before 
Options accepted Mr Rs SIPP application but after the payments for the relevant 
investments were made from his SIPP account for the investment. Options says the general 
risk of introducers offering cash incentives had been flagged to it by a trade body. Such 
payments are against the rules covering pensions and can attract a substantial tax charge 
from HMRC.
Options spoke to CL&P in a conference call on 9 December 2011. Options has told us that in 
that call CL&P: confirmed that no clients or connected parties referred by CL&P receive 
any form of inducement for either establishing the SIPP or making the Store First Investment 
and that CL&P policy does not include offering inducements. And an Options staff member: 
...emphasised that it is completely against all rules that clients or connected parties receive 
any form of inducement for making particular investments.
I am not persuaded it was reasonable for Options to rely on what CL&P said when it clearly 
had information to show the position was contrary to that being set out to it by CL&P during 
the call. Options was aware cash incentives had been offered  discussing this was the 
purpose of the call with CL&P. In the circumstances, I do not think it was fair and reasonable 
for Options to proceed, based solely on a denial of this by CL&P. It should, at the very least, 
have taken independent steps to check things for itself  it could, for example, have 
contacted the consumers it had received applications for before the date of the call, to ask 
them about cash incentives.
Accounts
Based on the available evidence, it appears a request for CL&Ps accounts was not made by 
Options until 23 March 2012. Its not clear why the request was made at this time. But it 
seems CL& P did not respond as the request was repeated, as urgent, on 3 April 2012. But 
by this point Mr Rs SIPP had already been set up. CL&P replied to Options to say the 
information would be in the post the next day. However, when asked, Options has told us it 
has no record of receiving the information and that this was another likely factor in its 
eventual decision to end its relationship with CL&P. 
In my opinion, it is fair and reasonable that Options should have met its own standards, set in late 
2011, and should have checked CL&Ps accounts at the outset before accepting any business 
from it. This is a step it should reasonably have taken to meet its regulatory obligations.
Taking all of the above into consideration, I think in the circumstances it is fair and 
reasonable for me to conclude that Options failed to conduct sufficient due diligence on 
CL&P before accepting business from it. And, in light of the Principles and FSA/FCA regulatory publications I have quoted above, this means Options did not comply with its 
regulatory obligations, or with good industry practice, at the relevant time.
If Options had completed sufficient due diligence, what ought it reasonably to have 
concluded?
In my opinion, I think Mr Wrights appearance on the FSAs Alert list ought to have 
highlighted to Options that the regulator was concerned enough about his activities to warn 
consumers about him. I think in the circumstances it is fair and reasonable to conclude that 
the warning was aimed at protecting consumers from detriment in their dealings with him.
With this in mind, I think the warning should have acted as a significant reason for Options to 
be concerned about any business Mr Wright was involved in  not just Cash In Your Pension. 
The Alert mentioned that Mr Wright was involved in the area of pensions  which is the same 
business area that CL&P was active in. And it said that Mr Wright was not authorised and may 
be targeting UK customers in connection with investment business conducted through an 
unregulated company, Cash In Your Pension. I also think the presence of Mr Wright on the list, 
after he had answered No to a question asking him if he was subject to any FSA action or 
censure, should immediately have raised a red flag to Options. It shouldve given rise to 
significant concern about Mr Wrights conduct and integrity.
I note that Options ended its relationship with CL&P shortly after completing the check on 
Mr Wright. Im satisfied this check was a factor in its decision to end the relationship. Options 
has told us that the wording in the 2013 Alert, if it had been published at the time of it 
accepting business from CL&P, would have been sufficient to stop it doing business with 
Mr Wright and/ or CL&P. It said: The fact that the FCA updated their notice in 2013 to a 
clear warning including an express comment that Mr Wright was an individual to avoid, a 
warning that would have put Options Pensions on notice to stop accepting business from 
Mr Wright. (my emphasis)
Options says in relation to the FSAs list that the 2010 warning would not have led it to the 
same conclusion. It says: the Notice (the alert) amounts simply to a notification that 
Mr Wright is not authorised to carry on regulated activities, a fact of which Options was well 
aware and upon which basis it accepted referrals from CL&P. This seems to be at odds with 
the action it took in 2012, based on the 2010 warning. And I note Options Chief Executive, 
Ms Hallett, gave evidence to the court during the Adams v Options HC hearing, which is 
summarised at Paragraph 60 of the judgment as follows:
It was also brought to my attention that from October 2010 the FCA had published 
warnings about dealing with another director, Mr Terence Wright, who was not 
authorised under FSMA to carry out regulated activity. Ms Hallett accepted in cross 
examination that no check was made to see whether his name appeared on a 
regulatory warning notice on the FCAs website until May 2012. The relationship 
between the defendant and CLP was severed on 25 May 2012. She accepted that 
had she been aware of such a warning in 2010 the defendant would not have dealt 
with CLP. 
This, in my view, is inconsistent with Options representations to us. In any event, although 
Options has said it believes the 2010 Alert was less significant than the 2013 one, by 
comparing the wording of the two, I think the 2010 Alert was a clear indication that the 
regulator had serious concerns about the way Mr Wright conducted his business. And 
therefore, should have put Options on notice that it should not accept business from him. 
I accept the 2013 Alert provides strong advice to only deal with financial firms authorised by the 
FCA. However, I do not agree with Options characterisation of the 2010 Alert and Im surprised that Options suggests the regulator does not detail any concern about Mr Wright in this. A 
publication headed ALERT in bold is clearly not routine and unimportant. Its clear from the 
wording itself that the FSA was warning investors against dealing with unauthorised firms and 
specifically named Mr Wright. He was involved in targeting (to use the FSAs phrase) UK 
based pension investors  which should have been of particular concern to a SIPP operator 
considering accepting business from him. The Alert also provided links to:
A list of unauthorised firms
A press release about unauthorised firms targeting UK investors
A document telling investors about the tactics adopted by unauthorised firms 
targeting UK investors.
A document explaining share scams.
In my opinion, it is fair and reasonable to conclude the warning was more than a mere 
statement of fact that an unauthorised firm could not carry out regulated activities. It was a 
clear warning  an Alert - relating specifically to Mr Wright, providing links to guidance on 
consumer protection and warnings about scams.
So, despite what Options says, in my view, CL&Ps director Mr Wrights presence on the 
FSA warning list in 2010 should have led it (Options) to conclude it should not do business 
with CL&P. That is my view and I note it is a view which was held by Ms Hallett when she 
gave evidence to the court during the Adams v Options HC hearing. Ms Hallett told the court 
that if she had been aware of the warning in 2010 Options would not have dealt with CL&P. 
Such a conclusion was the proper one it ought to have reached bearing in mind Options 
responsibilities under the Principles.
In addition, on the issue of cash incentives, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for 
Options to simply rely on a denial by CL&P in circumstances where it seems it was aware 
cash incentives were being offered. I think Options shouldve taken steps to independently 
check the position. And it is fair and reasonable to conclude that prompt action wouldve 
inevitably led Options to discover that cash incentive payments were being widely offered by 
CL&P at the time, and what it had told Options, wasnt correct. It follows that Options ought 
to have concluded  as it belatedly did when the issue of cash incentives came to light again 
in 2012  that it couldnt rely on what CL&P had told it and it would not be consistent with its 
regulatory obligations to deal with any further business from it.
If Options had acted with a reasonable amount of diligence it would have discovered that 
CL&P was acting in a way which was, to use its own words, completely against all rules. And 
it would have known that CL&P was acting without integrity  it had not told it the truth when 
asked about cash incentives. In my view, the only fair and reasonable thing it could do would 
have been to decide not to accept any further business from CL&P and not to proceed with 
any applications which had not completed (that is to say the investment had not been made).
In Mr Rs case, the SIPP was established in around late October 2011, which was before 
Options became aware of the cash incentives being offered to CL&P clients. But it had, by 
this point known that Mr Wright was a director of CL&P. Further, it was only after Options 
severed its relationship with CL&P that it carried out the second pension transfer on behalf of 
Mr R and transferred further funds and purchased the WBP plots. 
I think if checks on CL&Ps accounts had been attempted earlier, the fact that it was 
unwilling to provide basic information about its business, should have raised a red flag to 
Options, as it apparently eventually did. This is information that Options could have 
requested at the outset as part of its due diligence into CL&P.Taking all of the above into consideration, I think it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude 
that Options ought reasonably to have concluded had it complied with its regulatory 
obligations, that it should not have accepted any business from CL&P in the first place. I, 
therefore, consider it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say Options should not 
have proceeded with Mr Rs SIPP application from CL&P once it became aware of its 
involvement as his introducer.
Investment due diligence
As Ive explained above, Options should neither have accepted Mr Rs introduction from 
CL&P nor proceeded with his SIPP application. Or the investments which were only made 
after Options received CL&P letter of authority to act on Mr Rs behalf. I think its fair and 
reasonable to uphold this complaint on that basis alone, so I do not think its necessary to 
consider the due diligence Options carried out on the investments Mr R made subsequent 
to that.
Did Options act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Rs instructions?
I note that Options has made the point that COBS 11.2.19R obliged it to execute 
investment instructions. It effectively says that once the SIPP has been established, it is 
required to execute the specific instructions of its client. Before considering this point, I 
think it is important for me to reiterate that, it was not fair and reasonable for Options to 
have accepted Mr Rs SIPP application from CL&P in the first place. So, in my opinion, his 
SIPP should not have been established and the opportunity to execute investment 
instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity should not have arisen at all.
In any event, Options argument about having to execute the transaction as a result of 
COBS 11.2.19R was considered and rejected by the judge in BBSAL. In that case 
Jacobs J said:
The heading to COBS 11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner 
in which orders are to be executed: i.e. on terms most favourable to the 
client. This is consistent with the heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, 
namely: Best execution. The text of COBS 11.2.1R is to the same effect. 
The expression when executing orders indicates that it is looking at the 
moment when the firm comes to execute the order, and the way in which 
the firm must then conduct itself. It is concerned with the mechanics of 
execution; a conclusion reached, albeit in a different context, in Bailey & 
Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras [34]  [35]. It is not 
addressing an anterior question, namely whether a particular order should 
be executed at all. I agree with the FCAs submission that COBS 11.2 is a 
section of the Handbook concerned with the method of execution of client 
orders, and is designed to achieve a high quality of execution. It 
presupposes that there is an order being executed, and refers to the factors 
that must be taken into account when deciding how best to execute the 
order. It has nothing to do with the question of whether or not the order 
should be accepted in the first place.
So, I dont think that Options argument on this point is relevant to its obligations under 
the Principles to decide whether or not to accept an application to open a SIPP in the 
first place. Or to execute the instruction to make the investments.
The indemnityThe indemnity sought to confirm that Mr R was aware the investments were high risk, had 
taken his own advice, and would not hold Options responsible for any liability resulting from 
the investment. The FSAs 2009 review said that SIPP operators should, as an example of 
good practice, be: Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for investment decisions and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business. 
With the above in mind, I think Options ought to have been cautious about accepting Mr Rs 
application even though he had signed the indemnities. Options had to act in a way that was 
consistent with the regulatory obligations that Ive set out in this decision. In my view, 
Options was not treating Mr R fairly by asking him to sign an indemnity absolving Options of 
all responsibility, and relying on such an indemnity, when it ought to have known that Mr Rs 
dealings with CL&P were putting him at significant risk.
Summary of my findings on due diligence 
In summary, Options did not comply with good industry practice, act with due skill, care and 
diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly, or treat Mr R fairly by accepting his 
application from CL&P and/or proceeding with the investment instructions and subsequent 
pension transfer once it became aware of CL&Ps involvement. For all the reasons given, Im 
satisfied that this is the fair and reasonable conclusion to reach.
S27 and s28 FSMA
As set out in the relevant considerations section above, I have also considered the application 
of s27 and s28 FSMA. Ive set out the key sections of s27 and s28 above and have considered 
them carefully, in full. In my view, I need to apply a four-stage test to determine whether s27 
applies and whether a court would exercise its discretion under s28, as follows:
1. Whether an unauthorised third-party was involved;
2. Whether there is evidence that the third-party acted in breach of the General 
Prohibition in relation to the particular transaction and, if so;
3. Whether the customer entered into an agreement with an authorised firm in 
consequence of something said or done by the unauthorised third-party in the course 
of its activities that contravened the General Prohibition; and
4. Whether it is just and equitable for the agreement between the customer and the 
authorised firm to be enforced in any event. 
Was an unauthorised third-party involved?
There is no dispute CL&P was an unauthorised third party.
Is there evidence CL&P acted in breach of the General Prohibition?
Under Article 53 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) 
the following are regulated activities:
Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is -
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his 
capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or 
agent) (i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment 
which is a security or a relevant investment, or (ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or underwrite such an investment.
Under Article 25 of the RAO (as set out in the version that was current at the relevant time) 
the following are regulated activities:
(1) Making arrangements for another person (whether as principal or agent) to buy, sell, 
subscribe for or underwrite a particular investment which is -
(a) a security,
(b) a relevant investment, or
(c) an investment of the kind specified by article 86, or article 89 so far 
as relevant to that article, is a specified kind of activity.
(2) Making arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the arrangements 
buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting investments falling within paragraph 
(1)(a), (b) or (c) (whether as principal or agent) is also a specified kind of activity.
There is an exclusion under Article 26 of: ...arrangements which do not or would not bring 
about the transaction to which the arrangements relate.
Ive considered these in turn.
Advice
I think the following part of the Court of Appeals judgment in the Adams case is of particular 
relevance here.
Paragraph 82: In short, CLPs recommendation that Mr Adams invest in storepods carried 
with it advice that he transfer out of his Friends Life policy and put the money into a Carey 
SIPP. Investment in storepods may have been the ultimate objective, but it was to be gained 
by transferring out of the Friends Life policy and into a Carey SIPP. CLP thus proposed that 
Mr Adams undertake those transactions too and, in so doing, gave advice on the merits of 
selling a particular investment which is a security (viz. the Friends Life policy) and buying 
another particular investment which is a security (viz. a Carey SIPP). Although, therefore, 
the advice to invest in storepods was not of itself covered by article 53 of the RAO, CLP 
nonetheless gave Mr Adams advice within the scope of article 53 and so acted in 
contravention of the general prohibition.
Here, Mr R was cold called by CL&P and his evidence is that CL&P advised him to transfer 
out of his existing personal pension plans into the Options SIPP and invest in the 
unregulated investments. I think that evidence is plausible, and credible. I do not think Mr R 
thought of taking this course of action of his own volition or would have done so without a 
positive recommendation from CL&P. I also note it was CL&P which contacted Mr R  he did 
not find CL&P in the course of looking for alternative pension options.
To confirm, I am satisfied CL&P advised Mr R to transfer out of his existing pension and 
transfer into the Options SIPP  and so it undertook the regulated activity defined at 
article 53 of the RAO.
Making arrangements
I think the following parts of the Court of Appeals judgement in the Adams case are of 
particular relevance here.Paragraph 99: The fact remains that CLP pre-completed the application form so that 
[Mr Adams] could just sign it (to quote Mr Adams witness statement). It also told Mr Adams of 
documents he would need to supply for anti-money laundering purposes and explained that 
the completed forms and [his] anti money laundering documents will be collected by courier 
and taken to Carey Pensions UK. Arrangements being a broad and untechnical word in 
article 25 of the RAO as well as section 235 of FSMA, it is apt to describe what CLP did.
Paragraph 100:
I consider, too, that the steps which CLP took can fairly be said to have been such 
as to bring about the transfers from Friends Life and into the Carey SIPP. Contrary 
to the Judges understanding, it does not matter that CLPs acts did not necessarily 
result in any transaction between [Mr Adams] and [Carey] or that the process was 
out of CLPs hands to control in any event. 
Nor is it determinative whether steps can be termed administrative. CLPs 
procuring the letter of authority, role in relation to anti-money laundering 
requirements and (especially) completion of the Carey application form were much 
more closely related to the relevant transactions than, say, the advertisement which 
originally prompted Mr Adams to contact CLP. It is to be remembered that CLP filled 
in sections of the application form dealing with Personal Details, Occupation & 
Eligibility, Transfers, Investments and Nomination of Beneficiaries. In my view, 
what CLP did was thus significantly instrumental in the material transfers. In other 
words, there was, in my view, sufficient causal potency to satisfy the requirements of 
article 26 of the RAO.
I note what CL&P say about the timing of Mr Rs letter of authority coming after his 
application form. But this form was received prior to both his investments and before he 
signed either of the indemnity forms. It was also received before the transfer of Mr Rs 
second pension. Its clear by the time Mr R instructed Options to invest in Store First, it was 
aware of CL&Ps involvement in his (Mr Rs) pension arrangements. Further, it was only 
following the call from CL&P that Mr R decided to transfer his pensions. So, whilst Options 
did not receive the letter of authority until after the initial SIPP application, I dont think this 
means CL&P didnt assist Mr R in completing the form itself in line with its usual working 
practices with other customers.
I think its more likely than not that the application form was, in fact, pre-populated by CL&P. 
So, the steps which CL&P took can fairly be said to have been such as to bring about the 
transfer from Mr Rs existing personal pension into the Options SIPP  they had sufficient 
causal potency to satisfy the requirements of article 26 of the RAO.
Im satisfied CL&P carried out regulated activities, and therefore, breached the General 
Prohibition. And any one regulated activity is sufficient for these purposes, so this test would 
be met if CL&P had only undertaken arranging (which, for the reasons I have set out, I do 
not think is the case).
Did Mr R enter into an agreement with Options in consequence of CL&Ps actions?
Im satisfied the SIPP was opened in consequence of the advice given, and arrangements 
made, by CL&P. If CL&P had not contacted Mr R, advised him to transfer his existing 
personal pension plan to SIPP with Options in order to invest in the unregulated 
investments, and then made the arrangements for that to happen, I am satisfied he would 
not have entered into an agreement with Options.Would the courts conclude it is just and equitable for the agreement between Mr R and 
Options to be enforced in any event?
Having carefully considered this, I am satisfied a court would not conclude it is just and 
equitable for the agreement between Mr R and Options to be enforced in any event. I think 
very similar reasons to those mentioned by the Court of Appeal in the Adams case apply here:
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own 
decisions, there is a need for regulation, among other things, to safeguard 
consumers from their own folly.
While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated 
sources, s27 FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so onto the 
providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce agreements and 
being required to return money and other property and to pay compensation 
regardless of whether they had had knowledge of third parties contraventions of the 
General Prohibition.
As set out above Options was aware, or ought to have been aware:
oMr Wright featured on the FSAs list of alerts about unauthorised individuals 
and businesses.
oIt had not been privy to CL&Ps company accounts.
oCL&P was offering cash incentives to consumers and therefore, acting 
completely against all rules.
The investments did not proceed until these things were known or ought to have been 
known to Options and so it was  or should have been - open to it to decline the 
investments.
So, I am satisfied s27 FSMA offers a further and alternative basis on which it would be fair 
and reasonable to conclude Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. I have therefore gone on to 
consider the question of fair compensation.
Is it fair to ask Options to compensate Mr R?
In deciding whether Options is responsible for any losses that Mr R has suffered on his 
investments, I need to look at what would have happened if Options had done what it should 
have done i.e. had not accepted Mr R SIPP application in the first place. When considering 
this I have taken into account the Court of Appeals supplementary judgment in Adams 
([2021] EWCA Civ 1188), insofar as that judgment deals with restitution/compensation.
Im required to make the decision I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. And I do not consider the fact that Mr R signed the indemnity 
means that he shouldnt be compensated if it is fair and reasonable to do so. In deciding 
whether Options is responsible for any losses that Mr R has suffered on the investments in 
his SIPP, I need to look at what would have happened if Options had done what it should 
have done.
Had Options acted fairly and reasonably it should have concluded that it should not accept 
Mr Rs application to open a SIPP. That should have been the end of the matter  whilst it 
didnt initially have the CL&P letter of authority, it was only another two weeks before this 
was received and Options were clearly aware of its involvement at this point. It should have 
told Mr R that it could not continue with his business. And I am satisfied, if that had 
happened, the arrangement for Mr R would not have come about in the first place. As I said, the indemnity was only signed after Options received the CL&P letter of authority. So, I 
consider the loss he suffered could have been avoided.
The financial loss has flowed from Mr R transferring out of his personal pension plans and 
into a SIPP. For the reasons I set out, I am satisfied that had the SIPP application not been 
accepted, the loss would not have been suffered. I would reach a similar conclusion if 
Options had terminated the transaction at a later stage once it was in possession of certain 
facts that meant there was a significant chance Mr R could suffer financial detriment.
Had Options explained to Mr R why it would not accept the application from CL&P or was 
terminating the transaction, I find it very unlikely that he would have tried to find another 
SIPP operator to accept the business. So, Im satisfied that Mr R would not have continued 
with the SIPP, had it not been for Options failings and would have remained in his existing 
scheme. And, whilst I accept that CL&P is responsible for initiating the course of action that 
has led to his loss, I consider that Options failed unreasonably to put a stop to that course of 
action when it had the opportunity and obligation to do so.
Ive considered paragraph 154 of the Adams v Options HC judgment, which says: The 
investment here was acknowledged by the claimant to be high risk and/or speculative. He 
accepted responsibility for evaluating that risk and for deciding to proceed in knowledge of the 
risk. A duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of the client, who is to 
take responsibility for his own decisions, cannot be construed in my judgment as meaning that 
the terms of the contract should be overlooked, that the client is not to be treated as able to reach 
and take responsibility for his own decisions and that his instructions are not to be followed.
For all the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that it would not be fair to say Mr Rs actions mean 
he should bear the loss arising as a result of Options failings. I do not say Options should not 
have accepted the application because the investment was high risk. I acknowledge Mr R was 
warned of the high risk and declared he understood that warning. But, as I set out above, Options 
did not share significant warning signs with him so that he could make an informed decision 
about whether to proceed or not. In any event, Options should not have asked him to sign the 
indemnity at all as the SIPP application should never have been accepted or, alternatively, the 
transaction should have been terminated at a much earlier stage in the process. 
Furthermore, as set out above, I am satisfied there is a legal basis on which Mr R is entitled to 
compensation, by virtue of s27 FSMA. 
I also have seen no evidence to show that Mr R would have proceeded if Options had 
rejected his SIPP application or refused to go ahead with the transactions at a later date. He 
was contacted by CL&P  which was consistent with its business model, in encouraging 
those with pensions to consider transferring out of these in favour of a SIPP in order to 
invest in one of several unregulated investments. And Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr R was 
looking to make a transfer prior to that contact.
Overall, I am satisfied that Options failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and 
industry best practice at the relevant time have led to Mr R suffering a significant loss to his 
pension. And my aim is to return him to the pension position he would now be in but for 
Options failings. I am satisfied Options failings have caused the full extent of the loss in 
question. That other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter, 
which I am not able to determine. However, that fact should not impact on Mr Rs right to fair 
compensation from Options for the full amount of his loss.Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr R to the position he would now be in but for Options failings. In light of 
my above findings, Options should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr R would be in if he had not transferred from his existing personal 
pension. In summary, Options should: 
1. Calculate the loss Mr R has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of any investments which cant be surrendered, if possible. 
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Rs pension. If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Mr R direct. In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary adjustments set out below. 
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused. Mr R has been caused some distress and 
inconvenience by the loss of his pension benefits. This is money Mr R cannot afford 
to lose. I consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for that upset.
Ill explain how Options should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr R has suffered as a result of making the transfer
To do this, Options should work out the likely value of Mr Rs personal pensions as at the 
date of this decision, had he left them where they were instead of transferring to the SIPP. 
Options should ask Mr Rs former personal pension providers to calculate the current 
notional transfer values had they not transferred his pensions.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return index should be used to calculate the value. That is likely to 
be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved if suitable funds 
had been chosen. The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of 
the SIPP at the date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr R has suffered. The 
Store First investment should be assumed to have no value.
2. Take ownership of any investments which cant be surrendered, if possible
I understand Options has been able to take ownership of the Store First investment, for a nil 
consideration, in other cases. So it should do that here, if possible. I am satisfied that is a fair 
approach in the circumstances of this case, as it may allow the SIPP to close (subject to the 
position with the WBP investment) and gives Options the option of retaining the investment 
or realising its current market value. 
 
I further understand Mr R has the option of returning his Store First investment to the 
freeholder for nil consideration. That may enable him (subject to the position with the WBP 
investment) to close his SIPP if Options does not take ownership of the Store First investment. 
In the event the Store First investment remains in the SIPP and Mr R decides not to transfer it 
to the freeholder he should be aware that he will be liable for all future costs associated with 
that investment such as business rates, ground rent and any other charges. He should also be 
aware it is unlikely he will be able to make a further complaint about these costs.
If the WBP investment still exists then Options should also take ownership of it. If Options is 
unable to take ownership of the WBP investment then it should remain in the SIPP. I think 
that is fair because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant realisable value in the 
future. Mr R would only be liable for any SIPP fees if the WBP investment can be sold or no 
longer exists. If Options does not take ownership of the WBP investment and it still exists and cannot be sold, then Options should waive any SIPP fees until it can be sold or ceases 
to exist.
3. Pay compensation for the loss to Mr Rs and make any necessary adjustments
Pay compensation to Mr R for the loss he has suffered calculated in 1 above. Since the loss 
Mr R has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value of his pension 
provision if that is possible. So, if possible the compensation for the loss should be paid into 
the pension. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the compensation should be increased 
to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax relief Mr R could 
claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Rs marginal rate of tax.
On the other hand, Mr R may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to him direct. But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Mr R should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Rs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount 
equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R would have been able to take a 
tax-free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
Interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date Options 
receives notification of Mr Rs acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days. If Options considers 
that it is legally required to deduct income tax from the interest, it must send a tax deduction 
certificate with the payment. Mr R can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and I require Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP to calculate and pay him the award and take the actions that I have set out 
above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman