DRN-3497633
The complaint
Miss G complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement
with STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (Startline).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Miss G took receipt of a used car in July 2021. She financed the deal through a hire
purchase agreement with Startline.
Miss G says she had issues with the cars central locking and with the fuel cap closure in
August 2021. She says the door mirror was also rotating excessively.
On 31 August 2021 Miss G says she broke down in traffic. Her phone had discharged, and it
was evening, so she left the car and it was recovered by police to a recovery centre and
subsequently moved to a service centre Ill call A.
Whilst at A the RAC tried to start the car but couldnt. They suspected a starter motor fault.
The inspection report completed on 2 September 2021 also noted damage to the
wheel/tyres and boot area.
Miss G contacted Startline on 3 September 2021 and the car was inspected by the supplying
dealership. They noted that the cars clutch had burnt out and suspected the starter motor
had too. They identified damage to the near side front tyre and alloy and said they were
unable to engage gear. They said there was also damage to the near side front wing and
doors and they noted the boot floor was damaged too. They suggested that the vehicle had
been in a collision.
Startline arranged an independent inspection of the car by a company I will call S. The
inspector looked at the car in November 2021. He also thought the clutch had burnt out and
he said the car had:
suffered major damage to the underside which has ripped the boot floor, damage was also
present to the underside of the vehicle in the floor area, the nsf wheel has recent kerb 
damage, the nsf wing also has damage, and there is slight damage to the ns doors. There is
no doubt that the damage has been caused recently as there was no corrosion apparent.
He took photographs of the damage and a photograph of the windscreen where police had
written 31/8/21, no keys, no handbrake, abandoned.
Startline therefore rejected Miss Gs claim as they said the problems the car was suffering
from hadnt been there from the beginning and were due to accidental damage.
In February 2022 Miss G commissioned her own independent inspection of the car. The
inspector noted the engine had seized although he couldnt say why without further
investigation. He noted the back bumper was hanging off and the car was in a poor
condition. It was his opinion that, given the very limited mileage Miss G had completed in the
car and the limited time shed had it, the problem was likely to have been present when the
car was supplied to her.
Our investigator agreed. She didnt think Miss G would have noticed the damage to the
underside of the car and she thought it reasonable to suggest she would have been able to
drive the car in that condition. She noted the limited mileage Miss G had completed in the
car and decided the engine fault was most probably developing when the car was supplied
to her. She thought Startline should allow her to reject the car and end her finance
agreement.
Startline didnt agree and asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss G, but I dont agree with the investigators opinion and Im not
expecting to uphold this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss G acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Startline, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss G. The car here was about
four years old and had completed about 49,000 miles so I think a reasonable person would
expect some wear and tear to be present. But I dont think theyd expect there to be damage
that resulted in the car being considered a write off, as is the case here.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Startline were responsible for the cars
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise.
Im persuaded Startline have done enough to demonstrate the faults the car is currently
suffering from where not present or developing when Miss G took receipt of the car. I say
that because:
The supplying dealership noted significant underbody damage and a probable burnt 
out clutch and potentially a burnt-out starter motor. I dont think any of those
problems are likely to have been present when the car was supplied as I think theunderside damage would have been noted in the MOT that was completed shortly
before the car was supplied, and because the car couldnt be driven with a burnt-out
clutch or burnt-out starter motor.
S confirmed the supplying dealerships comments and it was his strong
independent belief that the damage was caused by a recent collision.
I dont find the evidence provided in the independent inspectors report, commissioned by
Miss G, to be compelling. I say that because he didnt comment on the under-body damage
that was evidenced in the earlier report photographs (and in the supplying dealerships
comments and the RAC report on 2 September). He didnt comment on concerns the clutch
was burnt out or concerns about the starter motor either. And, whilst he noted the bumper
was hanging off he didnt provide an opinion about how that may have happened or who
should be held responsible for the damage.
Ive considered how the damage to the underside of the car is likely to have happened. I
think its likely that damage happened whilst the car was in Miss Gs possession. I say that
because it seems consistent with the car running over something. The car couldnt be driven
after the incident on 31 August 2021 so the underside damage must have happened at
some point before the 31 August 2021 and after the 19 June 2021 when the car passed its
MOT. As the mileage recorded during the MOT was similar to that at the point of supply it
seems very likely that the underbody damage occurred after the car was supplied to Miss G.
Ive also thought about when the engine fault is likely to have developed and I think its also
likely that fault developed after the car was supplied to Miss G. I say that because Im
persuaded the car was involved in some sort of collision that damaged the underbody and
the rear bumper. The damage shown in the photographs is significant. Panelling is ruptured
and crumpled, and I think its likely such damage would result in further mechanical issues.
The independent inspector appointed by Miss G couldnt explain what was wrong with the
engine without further investigation in a workshop. In the absence of that further
investigation I think its more likely than not that the cause of the engine and/or gearbox
failure is related to the collision and not to any pre-existing condition.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Miss G nor Startline had anything further to add, so Ive not been persuaded to 
change my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman