DRN-3464216
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Arrow Global Limited defaulted her account after writing to the 
wrong address.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a credit card account. Miss H had been in a payment plan with the 
original creditor since 2011, which she had kept up with. The account was sold to Arrow 
Global at the end of 2019.
Arrow Global wrote to Miss H at an old address, and also once tried writing to an incorrect 
version of her current address. They called her mobile once, but do not appear to have got 
through or left a message. Their post got returned, which caused them to hold off from 
defaulting the account for a bit. But then they defaulted it anyway.
Miss H says she found out about the default when she was informed by a credit reference 
agency. She found her score had dropped drastically and she was unable to get credit. She 
felt very distressed, and was disappointed as shed kept to her payment plan for so many 
years. She asked only that Arrow Global remove the default and let her resume her 
payments. But Arrow Global said they wrote to the address they were given and Miss H was 
at fault for not updating the original creditor when she moved.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H didnt agree, so 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Miss H and Arrow Global a provisional decision on 6 April 2022, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think this default should be removed. Ill explain why.
First, I am reasonably satisfied that Arrow Global wrote to incorrect addresses, and so 
Miss H did not receive their correspondence.
The main address they wrote to was, as I understand, Miss Hs parents old address, which 
she says theyd moved out of by then. And the land registry does indeed show that this 
property was sold on some time before Arrow Global bought the account. So I dont think 
Miss H got those letters.
Im also satisfied that Miss H did indeed live at the address she says she did at the time, 
which is backed up by electoral roll data and her tenancy agreement. At one point, Arrow 
Global wrote to an address that was similar to Miss Hs correct address, but was ultimately 
substantially incorrect. So I think its most likely that Miss H never got that letter either.
Finally, the fact that Arrow Globals post got returned only reinforces that their letters werent 
getting through.
I accept that Miss H had some responsibility to keep her creditors updated with her latest 
address. Its not clear if she did so here or not. It looks like she wrote to the original creditor, 
though understandably because of the time thats passed she doesnt still have the proof of 
postage. And the original creditors internal records seem rather muddled about which 
address was the right one.
But even if I assume that Miss H failed to keep that creditor updated, I dont think its fair to 
put all the blame on her. In the hustle and bustle of moving, its really quite understandable 
for someone to forget to update a small creditor from a decade or more before. And Arrow 
Global also had a responsibility to treat Miss H fairly and to make sure she actually knew 
what was going on  especially before taking drastic action like defaulting her account.
I dont think Arrow Global dealt with this account reasonably. When they bought this debt, 
Miss H had been keeping up her arrangement with the original creditor for a very long time 
indeed. So it wouldve been most odd for her to deliberately break this arrangement nearly a 
decade in. Further, this account was very old, and so there was a strong likelihood that 
Miss Hs contact details had changed. And Arrow Global had not heard back from Miss H at 
all in response to their letters, and they found her landline numbers were out of date. That all 
should have rung alarm bells for Arrow Global, and prompted them to check if they were 
actually getting through to her. But they didnt take sufficient steps to do so.
But even more than that, Arrow Globals post actually got returned. So they should have 
reasonably known theyd been writing to the wrong place. At first, I can see they delayed the 
default registration on that basis. But then they went ahead anyway without tracing Miss H to 
her correct address, without trying any other methods of contact, and without having any 
good reason to believe she actually knew what was going on.
I can see that the original creditor had Miss Hs correct email address and mobile phone 
number on file. And it looks like this was passed to Arrow Global. But Arrow Global never 
tried emailing Miss H at all. And they only tried phoning her mobile once, but from their notes 
it doesnt look like they actually spoke to her or left a message, and it looks like they never 
tried again. I acknowledge that Arrow Global werent technically required to use phone or 
email. But at least by the time they knew their post was being returned, they should have 
held off on the default and actually made sure Miss H knew what was happening  and they 
had the means to do so by both phone and email. They could also have traced her correct 
address, which was registered to her other accounts and the electoral roll.
Put simply, Arrow Global did not have a reasonable basis to think theyd actually got through 
to Miss H, whereas they had good reasons to realise they hadnt. But they didnt take 
reasonable or sufficient steps to make sure she knew they owned the account or that she 
was falling behind before registering a default. That was unfair.
At the least, when Miss H complained, Arrow Global should have realised that things had 
gone wrong and that shed never heard from them. She had only asked them to remove the 
default and resume her payments, which was clearly a reasonable request, not least given 
her years of keeping up payments before. And so they should have at least got rid of this 
default by then. But instead, they let the case come all the way to a final decision.Ultimately, its not fair for Miss H to have this default when Im reasonably satisfied she never 
actually received the proper notice that Arrow Global owned the debt, that her payments 
were no longer going to the original creditor, that she was falling behind, or that she risked 
such a default. Even if she failed to update her address with the original creditor, thats a 
common and understandable mistake, its not fair to punish her in this way, and our 
approach is generally not about punishing either side. And it looks like Arrow Global also 
failed to take reasonable steps to contact their customer, even when they should have 
reasonably realised that their correspondence hadnt actually got through.
I understand that Arrow Globals error has caused Miss H some real trouble and upset, in 
terms of sorting things out, stress, and seeing her credit rating drop after years or building it 
up. I also understand this has caused her some trouble getting credit. And while the creditors 
in question wont provide reasons for turning her down as a matter of policy, I can see from 
Miss Hs credit file that this default is the only significant negative factor. So I think its most 
likely it has had some noticeable effect on Miss Hs ability to get credit. Arrow Global need to 
put all of that right.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
4 May 2022. Miss H let us know she had nothing more to add. Arrow Global made some 
further comments, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Arrow Global said they did once try to trace Miss H. They blamed the credit reference 
agency for giving them the wrong address. The screenshot theyve provided is unclear  for 
example, I note it contains dates from after the default, so its not certain whether they really 
did run this trace before defaulting the account. But even if I assume they did, the credit 
reference agency wouldve only provided possible matches  they wouldnt have told Arrow 
Global what details to use. It was up to Arrow Global to review the information and do their 
own checks to make sure they then wrote to the right place. But Arrow Global ended up 
writing to the wrong address, despite the fact that Miss Hs correct address was registered to 
her other accounts and the electoral roll. And it looks like Arrow Global realised this was the 
wrong address, since they never wrote there again. But I cant see that they traced Miss H 
again, let alone to her actual correct address. So I still find that Arrow Global bear 
responsibility for things going wrong there.
Arrow Global also pointed out that they tried to phone Miss H once. But, per the provisional 
decision, it looks like they didnt get through, didnt leave a message, and didnt try again. So 
Im not sure why Arrow Global thinks this supports their case. A single unsuccessful call 
attempt was not a reasonable basis for them to think theyd made Miss H aware of the 
situation.
Arrow Global reiterated Miss Hs responsibility to update her address. But I already dealt 
with this in the provisional decision. As I said before, its not clear whether Miss H gave the 
original creditor her updated address or not. But even if I assume she didnt, Arrow Global 
still had a responsibility to treat her fairly and to properly inform her of what was going on.Here, Arrow Global wrote to an incorrect address, which they seem to have known was 
incorrect since they never wrote there again. They never emailed Miss H, they only tried 
phoning her once and never got through, and they never left her any messages. Otherwise, 
they consistently wrote to an out-of-date address, and their post got returned so they then 
knew this address was wrong too. This caused them to delay the default registration at first, 
but then they went ahead anyway  even though they knew by this point that theyd never 
properly notified Miss H. They also knew shed been making her payments for years and 
years and had no reason to stop if shed just been informed the debt had changed hands.
The fact remains that Arrow Global had no reasonable basis on which to think theyd got 
through to Miss H, whereas they reasonably shouldve known that shed never received any 
of the proper notices. And Arrow Global had a responsibility to make Miss H aware of what 
was going on  especially before taking action like a default.
Lastly, Arrow Global pointed out a couple of cases where investigators had found in a 
business favour. But as Arrow Global should know, this is an ombudsmans decision, not an 
investigators opinion. And we look at each case on its own individual merits.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before. Arrow Global 
got things wrong, and need to put things right.
Putting things right
I direct Arrow Global Limited to:
Remove the default and any related negative information from Miss Hs credit file;
Reinstate her previous payment plan; and
Pay Miss H £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Hs complaint, and direct Arrow Global Limited to put things right in the way 
I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman