DRN-2284437
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about their property insurer Society of Lloyd's (SOL) in 
relation to a settlement it issued to them having finally accepted their claim for theft.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were due to move into their newly built home in spring 2018. Unfortunately 
in February 2018 the property was broken into. Certain damage was caused and building 
fixtures were stolen. SOL initially had some concerns over liability but in May 2018 it told 
Mr and Mrs B it was accepting their claim.
Mr and Mrs B submitted an estimate for repairs from their architect. This totalled £14,910. 
SOL appointed a surveyor and an electrician to scope for insured repairs. Having 
reviewed their findings SOL said the total it would pay was £4,896. It thought the ceilings 
could be patch repaired and skimmed, whereas the architect had said complete removal 
and
re-boarding was necessary. SOL also thought it had no cost to bear regarding electrical 
work as it felt the electrical installation hadnt been complete at the time of the theft  the 
architect said all the electrics needed re-doing.
When SOL wouldnt amend its settlement figure Mr and Mrs B complained to us. Our 
investigator felt the evidence showed that the electrical installation had been somewhat 
advanced at the time of the loss and he didnt think it was fair for SOL to not pay towards 
this. Nor did he think it was fair for SOL to settle based on what it would have cost it to do 
the work. But he didnt think SOL should have to pay for completely re-instating the 
ceilings. He said fair settlement of the claim would be £10,560, from which the previous 
settlement would be deducted, with interest added to the outstanding amount due.
SOL said it felt the evidence showed the electrics had not been installed at the time of the 
theft. It also said the costs set out by the surveyor werent based on any deductions it 
might usually hope to achieve.
Mr and Mrs B said they were out of pocket by around £10,000. They felt SOL hadnt 
considered their evidence and they would need settlement of around that figure to make 
up for what they had paid out to get the work done and house competed. They noted the 
total the investigator said SOL would have to pay and felt this didnt cover all their costs, 
not least in having completely re-boarded the ceilings. They said this has been stressful 
and a court would likely award them a larger overall settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that SOL had the surveyor provide his scope based on general costs  but 
that doesnt mean those costs were available to Mr and Mrs B. Whilst they could likely 
have had SOL do work for them if it had offered, I dont think they could reasonably 
have shopped around and found other traders to do work part way through a major 
building project. SOL didnt want to do the work so fairly it had to settle based on Mr 
and Mrs Bs costs for that work  and their architect provided those costs.
There are two main issues causing the lions share of the price difference between the 
surveyor and architect. Those being the work to reinstate ceilings, and that for the 
electrical installation.
The architect said he would have to completely remove and re-board the ceilings. The 
surveyors said patch repairs and skimming would be a reasonable repair. The architect 
disagreed and said skimming over an existing ceiling finish cant be done unless a 
bonding agent is used  so he maintained that removal and replacement was 
necessary. I might have had some sympathy with that position if the surveyor had 
refused to allow for a bonding agent  but he clarified that such did form part of the 
repair he had recommended. So Im not persuaded that SOL was wrong to say the 
ceiling could be patch repaired and skimmed, as opposed to needing full removal and 
replacement.
Turning to the electrics; SOLs electrician did note that some of the second fix work 
had been done  that in fact some of the cabling appeared to have been cut by thieves 
whilst removing electrical fixtures. So I find it hard to accept SOLs argument that it 
reasonably shouldnt have to pay towards reinstating the installation. Especially when 
the findings of its electrician seem to broadly support the invoice for electrical work that 
Mr and Mrs B provided. So I think that SOLs settlement in this respect was unfair.
But Mr and Mrs Bs invoice doesnt clearly set out what work was outstanding, whilst 
SOLs electrician suggests that quite a bit of the second-fix work still needed finishing. 
I think its fair then to say that SOL should pay for 100% of the first fix work, and 50% 
of the second.
Determining a remedy for the complaint and claim is not straight-forward; all the work 
has been done and whilst the architects estimate is broken down fairly well, we dont 
know what the costs would have been for the work the surveyor recommended. 
Further we cant specifically break down the cost of electrical work by room or on 
account of what equates to first or second fix work when thinking about each aspect of 
repair for the property. Nor can we require the parties to appoint someone independent 
to look at the cost of repair  because the work has all been done. So I need to look at 
the information we have to, in the situation at hand, determine what a fair and 
reasonable settlement is  and which will bring matters to an end for both parties.
Having reviewed everything I think the sum set out by the investigator equates to a fair 
and reasonable resolution. It takes away the removing and re-boarding costs for the 
ceiling work whilst leaving in the price to re-skim. Arguably the total re-skim price 
would come down if only a patch repair is being completed  but then the cost of 
removing and replacing parts of the ceilings would have to be factored back in. And the 
ceiling work is linked to the electrical installation work  so how much of the ceilings 
would need taking down would vary depending on the extent of electrical work (which 
Im saying SOL is only partially liable for) So I cant say exactly what the work would 
cost which Im satisfied SOL was liable for indemnifying Mr and Mrs B for. I think that 
requiring SOL to pay for their cost of all work barring the removal and re-boarding 
costs as well as 50% of the cost for second fix electrical work is fair and reasonable.I know that this situation created some difficulty for Mr and Mrs B. But I bear in mind 
that the break-in was always going to impact their plans to move into their home. I also 
bear in mind that I havent found SOLs settlement offer was entirely unfair  even had 
it got the elements of it right that Ive said it should have paid, there would still have 
been a good amount of work/cost that wouldnt have been covered by it. And which 
Mr and Mrs B would, I think, most likely have disputed. So Mr and Mrs B would still 
have experienced very similar circumstances to those they went through, including the 
distress and inconvenience suffered. Overall Im not persuaded that SOL added upset 
into the situation or materially and negatively changed Mr and Mrs Bs experience, 
which would have been avoided but for its failures in handling the claim.
Putting things right
The total for SOL to pay against the claim is £10,560 (£14,910 less £2,450 for the ceilings 
and £1,900 for 50% of the second fix electrical work) and SOL has already paid a 
settlement to Mr and Mrs B of £4,896. So it will now have to pay the difference 
outstanding, but plus interest* from the date the original settlement was made until 
payment is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If SOL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs B, it should tell them how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Society of Lloyd's to provide redress as set out in 
putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman