DRN-3282708
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as S, complains about how HSBC UK Bank Ltd 
handled its application for a Bounce Back Loan.
 
Ss director, Mr G, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
S applied for a Bounce Back Loan in August 2020. On 7 October, S was sent a loan 
agreement to sign and return which it duly did on the same day.
 
After signing Ss loan agreement, Mr G continued to chase HSBC for an update on when Ss 
Bounce Back Loan would be drawn down. During several telephone conversations he was 
assured that Ss application was progressing but, having heard nothing, Mr G began to raise 
complaints on Ss behalf.
 
HSBCs responses to these complaints were generally brief and, in summary, reiterated that 
Ss application was still progressing. The bank also highlighted the sheer number of 
applications that it was working through.
 
Mr G continued to call, and he was provided with the same information: the bank had 
received unprecedented demand for borrowing, but Mr G could be assured that Ss 
application was progressing.
 
Ultimately, though, S still didnt receive its Bounce Back Loan.
 
In November, HSBC informed Mr G that  following a review  Ss application for a 
Bounce Back Loan had now been declined. So, the banks offer to facilitate a loan was 
withdrawn.
 
Mr G complained about the banks decision. In response, HSBC said it had acted in-line with 
its policy. Although, it didnt explain exactly why Ss application had now been declined.
Mr G contacted HSBC again on 11 December. He explained that his business was reliant on 
the Bounce Back Loan; hed promised stakeholders that hed be able to meet financial 
commitments, based on HSBCs repeated assurances that Ss application had been 
approved. Mr G also explained that hed travelled to Germany, for business reasons, 
believing that the loan was coming. Now the decision to offer S a Bounce Back Loan had 
been reversed, he was alone and stuck in Germany with no available funds.
 
Shortly after speaking with HSBC in December, Mr G contacted our service. He told us how 
HSBCs actions had taken a significant toll both on his business and on him personally. Mr G 
also described the steps that hed had to take to survive in Germany, borrowing money from 
several people that he already knew or had recently met. 
An investigator here looked at what had happened and, overall, he didnt think HSBC had 
treated S fairly or that it had done enough to put things right. In summary, our investigator 
found that:
Mr G had indeed signed an agreement and been told that Ss application was 
progressing. But even so, the bank was entitled to review applications and  upon 
reviewing Ss  it determined that S didnt meet its criteria. Looking at the information 
upon which HSBC had based its decision, its decision was reasonable.
Reliance on the Bounce Back Loan funds, without S ever being in receipt of the 
money, didnt come without risk. 
While its not in dispute that Mr G did receive several assurances that Ss application 
was progressing, there was never any confirmation that the Bounce Back Loan itself 
was guaranteed and would be paid. So, HSBC shouldnt be liable for any 
consequences of the loan not being paid.
Although HSBC hadnt done anything wrong in declining Ss application, the bank 
had still caused S a considerable amount of inconvenience. Applicants were entitled 
to expect a decision quickly, but that hadnt happened here. And the length of time 
that Ss application had been ongoing  around twelve weeks  was unreasonable. 
Mr G had been told on many occasions that there wasnt anything to be concerned 
about. And this had, quite understandably, reassured Mr G that everything was 
progressing smoothly. In fact, S was never guaranteed a Bounce Back Loan  and 
the lack of any tangible updates had created a sense of expectation which, 
ultimately, led to significant disappointment. 
In conclusion, while HSBCs decision not to offer S a Bounce Back Loan wasnt 
unreasonable, our investigator didnt think that the bank had handled Ss application at all 
well. 
While the complaint was with our service, the bank accepted it couldve dealt with Ss 
application better than it had done  so it made an offer to pay S £350 in compensation. But 
our investigator didnt think this was enough, and he asked HSBC to increase its offer to 
£750. The bank agreed. 
Mr G, though, didnt accept our investigators findings and he asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, he said:
HSBC did not care about the ripple-effect of consequences which had occurred as 
a result of its decision to decline Ss application. Hed worked very hard, only to be 
left alone and without support when he needed it most. 
Nobody at the bank had the courtesy to explain that there might be an issue with Ss 
application  or that the loan wasnt ever guaranteed  in any of the interactions hed 
had with HSBC. Only at the very last moment was he made aware that something 
was wrong, having already travelled to Germany and made promises to stakeholders 
based on the Bounce Back Loan funds.
The bank should take responsibility for what had happened. His reputation and, more 
significantly, his health had been greatly impacted by the events. So much so that 
hed experienced extreme anxiety and even thoughts of self-harm.   
So, as no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In support of Ss complaint, Mr G has sought to raise several points and its clear he feels 
very strongly about what happened. Hes provided detailed submissions; Id like to pass on 
my sincere thanks to him for doing so and for his continued patience. Im also very sorry to 
hear of just how much this matter has affected him.
Id also like to reassure Mr G that I have considered everything hes said and provided. But 
Ive summarised the complaint in far less detail  and I havent commented on everything 
hes raised. Instead, Ive focussed on the key areas of Ss complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this. Rather, it reflects the informal nature of this service.
 
Lastly, before I go on to set out the merits of Ss complaint, I know Mr G finds it strange that 
some calls  where he says he received advice or assurances over Ss application  arent 
available. But I have no reason to believe that HSBC has intentionally withheld any call 
recordings or other evidence relevant to Ss complaint. 
Ss Bounce Back Loan application
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their turnover during the calendar year 2019. When making Ss 
application, Mr G declared that Ss turnover was £250,000.
I understand from what Mr G has said that he used an estimated turnover figure when 
applying. But only businesses established after 1 January 2019 could use an estimate. And 
because S had been trading prior to this date, having been incorporated in 2018, Mr G was 
required to use Ss actual turnover figure for the calendar year 2019. That figure was much 
lower than the £250,000 Mr G declared in Ss application. 
Mr G has said he completed Ss application with help, both from a member of staff at HSBC 
and his accountant, and that he was told he could use an estimated turnover. But as our 
investigator pointed out, while its clear that Mr G did receive help with completing his 
application, theres nothing to conclusively show that he was told to input an estimated 
turnover by HSBC. The private advice Mr G received from his accountant isnt something our 
service can consider as part of this complaint. All I can review here are the actions of the 
bank.
In any event, under the Scheme, applicants were required to self-declare their eligibility for a 
Bounce Back Loan. And that means that, ultimately, Mr G was the person responsible for the 
information provided as part of Ss application. So, while Ive no doubt he was acting in good 
faith when completing Ss application, he had a duty to make sure the information that he 
provided was accurate.
I can appreciate Mr Gs frustration that the offer was withdrawn after hed signed an 
agreement on behalf of S. But lenders were entitled to keep things under review even after a 
loan offer had been issued and, ultimately, wouldnt be expected to provide facilities to 
applicants that were considered ineligible. HSBC had the power to terminate the agreement 
in certain circumstances, which included if any of the information used to apply for the loan 
was materially misleading or incorrect. When the bank decided to review Ss application, it wasnt satisfied that S was eligible for 
the Bounce Back Loan. And I think HSBCs conclusion was reasonable because, from what 
Ive seen, Ss 2019 turnover amounted to far less than what had been declared in its 
application  meaning it didnt meet the necessary criteria. So, overall, Im satisfied that 
HSBC was entitled not to offer S a Bounce Back Loan.
Having said that, I dont think HSBC was ever clear enough with Mr G about exactly why Ss 
application was declined. Ive no doubt that lack of clarity only exacerbated Mr Gs strength 
of feeling that S was being treated unfairly. And I think HSBC couldve done more here to 
help him understand why it had made its decision.  
Mr Gs actions
Mr G has said he decided to travel to Germany because of the assurances he received from 
staff during lots of phone calls, that Ss Bounce Back Loan would be paid. He believes its 
the fault of the bank that he found himself alone in Germany with no available funds, once 
the Bounce Back Loan didnt materialise, making it necessary to borrow money from 
acquaintances.
There are a significant number of telephone calls between Mr G and HSBC. So, I wont go 
into the detail of each and every one here. Instead, Ill focus on what I consider to be the 
overarching key points. 
From what Ive heard in the call recordings, for the most part, Mr G was provided with 
generic updates. To summarise, Mr G was often told: Ss application was progressing, it had 
been escalated to managers, and the bank would be in touch once theres some further 
news.
 
But on some calls, he was also given more complete information  such as an estimated 
draw down date for Ss Bounce Back Loan. This detail, though, ultimately proved to be 
inaccurate.
 
I can appreciate that staff at the bank wouldve only been trying to help Mr G, and 
information available to them may have been limited, but that doesnt change the fact that 
the lack of certainty wouldve been unhelpful and inconvenient. Additionally, during Mr Gs 
calls to the bank there never appeared to be any real cause for concern. So, I understand 
why Mr G expected Ss Bounce Back Loan to be drawn down soon based on what he was 
being told.
 
As our investigator has explained, though, its fair to say that the more specific updates were 
still caveated in some way by HSBCs staff. When referring to the possible draw down date 
they frequently used expressions like should be and looks like and they also 
encouraged Mr G to call back if he hadnt heard anything in a few days. So, on balance, I 
dont think anything said during these calls amounted to any kind of guarantee.
 
Moreover, I cant fairly conclude that relying on money which hadnt been made available 
wasnt without risk. The fact is, despite being told that Ss application had been progressing 
for quite some time, there hadnt ever been any sign of the money. And even though Mr G 
was being told Ss application was still working its way through HSBCs process, crucially, I 
cant ignore that he was fully aware throughout that the loan hadnt been drawn down.
  
In my view, I think there was an inherent risk in relying on Bounce Back Loan funds which 
hadnt been drawn down. And while I understand why Mr G interpreted what he was being told in the way that he did, I dont think the bank ever provided a cast-iron promise that S 
would receive its Bounce Back Loan. Instead, I think it only ever reassured Mr G that the 
application was still being worked through.
 
So, with all of that in mind, I cant fairly say that HSBC are ultimately accountable for the 
consequences of S not receiving the money. And it follows that I dont think the bank should 
cover the costs Mr G has said he incurred.
The level of service HSBC provided
I certainly think that HSBC couldve handled Ss application much better than it did.
 
While I know the bank was experiencing significant operational challenges at the time, it still 
took around three months for it to reach a decision: Ss application was made in August, and 
the first indication that it would be declined came in November. I think S was entitled to 
expect a much quicker response than that, as envisaged under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme. And Im satisfied that S should be compensated for the inconvenience it 
experienced here.
 
I also think HSBCs communication with Mr G couldve been much clearer. In particular, I 
think the bank had ample opportunity to explain  on one of the many occasions that 
Mr G called  that S wasnt guaranteed, or entitled to, a Bounce Back Loan.
 
That didnt happen. And there was never an indication given to Mr G, until after lots of 
correspondence and three months on from applying, that Ss Bounce Back Loan application 
had been declined. So, I can surely see why Mr G feels let down by the bank  given he 
simply wanted a straight answer one way or the other.
 
Our investigator recommended that HSBC increase its offer of compensation to £750, the 
bank agreed. And, in all the circumstances, I think thats a fair and reasonable amount to 
reflect the inconvenience S was caused. But Mr G doesnt agree, he thinks the banks 
actions had a far wider impact  in particular, to him personally. And he told our investigator 
of the pain, anger, and shock hed experienced as a result of what happened.
 
Its clear that the whole matter has had a profound effect on Mr G. So, what Ill go on to 
explain here will no doubt come as a disappointment to him. Nonetheless, because Mr G 
has placed such weight on the personal impact of what happened  its important that I 
address it and explain why Im not able to consider that personal impact as part of this 
complaint.
 
Put simply, under our rules, Mr G isnt the complainant here  S is. So, Im only able to 
assess the impact that the banks actions had on S and not on him personally. While that 
may seem unfair to Mr G, given his role as director of S, the fact is that he and S are 
separate entities.
 
As such, in bringing this complaint, Mr G isnt acting in a personal capacity. Instead, hes 
only bringing the complaint on behalf of S. And its on that basis that the impact to him 
personally isnt something Im able to bring into consideration when deciding this complaint.
Overall
I understand that what Ive set out here will likely come as a disappointment to Mr G. Theres 
no doubt that this whole episode has been extremely difficult for him and S. Its clear from 
what hes said that his mental health has suffered greatly as a result, and I really do hope that things are better for him now. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied that S was caused considerable inconvenience by the banks 
handling of its Bounce Back Loan application. And to that end, in the circumstances, I think 
£750 is a fair amount of compensation to reflect the inconvenience S experienced. So, thats 
what I require HSBC to pay. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ss complaint. I now require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay S 
£750 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman