DRN-3687807
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the amount of compensation AXA France IARD (AXA) has offered to 
settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
alongside his store card. AXA is the underwriter of the PPI policy and is responsible for 
answering this complaint. 
What happened
Mr L took out a PPI policy with a store card in March 2000, and it looks as though the 
account ended in 2015. AXA upheld Mr Ls complaint that hed been mis-sold the policy and 
initially offered £479.05 to compensate him for this mis-sale.
AXA said the compensation aimed to put Mr L back in the position he would have been in 
had he not taken the PPI. Mr L wasnt satisfied that AXA had calculated the compensation 
correctly. This was because AXA didnt initially have statement records earlier than mid-
2005, so had partly based the compensation figure on assumptions worked out from what it 
did have. (AXA said it had a figure for the total premiums charged - £217.62  but because it 
didnt have all the transaction details it had to estimate the amount of interest). But Mr L said 
he had had provided copies of pre-2005 statements and he wasnt satisfied that AXA had 
taken information from those statements into account in an updated compensation offer of 
£486.64. 
Our adjudicator looked into this, and said what AXA had offered Mr L was fair. But Mr L still 
wasnt satisfied and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AXA has upheld Mr Ls complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, I am not looking at the sale 
of the PPI in this decision. I am only considering if AXAs offer of compensation for the mis-
sold PPI is fair.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint about the amount of compensation. Ill explain 
why. 
When a PPI policy attached to a store card has been mis-sold, the business needs, as far as 
possible, to put the consumer in the position they would have been in had they not taken out 
the policy. To do this, all premiums charged for the PPI must be repaid, plus any interest or 
charges caused by the PPI being added to the card account. The business must also pay 
compensatory interest at a simple rate of 8% for any period a consumer is out of pocket. For 
store cards, this is when the account would have been expected to be in credit had the PPI 
premiums not been wrongly charged to it.
The main point of dispute in relation to the compensation figure is the amount of the PPI 
premiums charged. AXA has said throughout that the total figure was £217.62 over the life of 
the policy. Mr L said the figure should be substantially higher  telling us he had added up 
the premiums and the total came to over £500.
Mr L sent us copies of the statements he had provided to AXA, and AXA sent in a list of 
transactions from July 2005 to July 2014. As it seems the account ended in 2015, and it 
doesnt look as though Mr L was able to provide every statement before July 2005, I dont 
have a complete list of transactions, but I do seem to have the vast majority. Having gone 
through Mr Ls statements and AXAs information, Ive identified PPI premiums totalling just 
over £200.00. Given the premiums were relatively low each month  the lowest I found was 
4p and the highest £4.22  I doubt the premiums on the missing statements would have 
increased this figure by very much, so Ive no reason to think the figure of £217.62 given by 
AXA is incorrect.
I should say here that, when looking through the information from AXA, I saw some annual 
premiums of £59.99 and then £69.99 marked as credit card insurance. I think its possible 
that Mr L may have added these figures into his calculation of what he thought AXA should 
be refunding for the PPI. However, PPI is a monthly charge based on the amount 
outstanding on the card, so these annual figures are not PPI charges. 
I also note that, when AXA provided all the information it had about Mr Ls complaint, the file 
included a letter Mr L had sent to the card provider in 2019 to complain about a policy called 
privacyguard. This letter references premiums of £69.99 so it seems that that is the credit 
card insurance on the account. (That policy is not the subject of this complaint and I have no 
information about the outcome of the separate complaint - or indeed whether AXA was the 
correct respondent. So I cannot comment on it in this decision, and have only included the 
information for the sake of clarity in trying to reconcile both parties calculations.)
Having concluded that the AXA figure of £217.62 is correct, Ive looked at the other elements 
of the calculation. During the course of this complaint AXA has provided a further update on 
the compensation figure (in July 2022), confirming that it had used the information provided 
by Mr L in the calculation.
Im satisfied that AXA has used the appropriate methodology to undertake a reconstruction 
of the card account, in the way I would have expected, in order to calculate the additional 
interest and charges of £57.25 which Mr L incurred on his account because of the PPI 
premiums.
Im also satisfied that AXA has used the appropriate methodology to determine the simple 
interest at 8% for the times when Mr Ls account balance would have been expected to be in 
credit had it not been for the PPI premiums (and associated interest and charges) that were 
wrongly added to his account, causing him to be out of pocket. And AXA has correctly 
deducted tax of £59.73 from this compensatory interest of £298.67 in the way it is required to 
do. This gives a total compensation figure of £513.81, slightly higher than previous figures 
because the compensatory interest has increased over time. 
In summary, I have no reason to think that the compensation which AXA has offered to Mr L 
was not calculated in the way in which this service would have expected in these 
circumstances. This means that I think the compensation offer to Mr L was fair and will, as 
far as is possible, put him back in the position he would have been in if the mis-sale hadnt 
happened. So I dont think AXA needs to do anything more, other than to pay the 
compensation if it has not already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against AXA France IARD.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman