DRN-2912457
The complaint
Mr B and Ms B complain that National Westminster Bank Plc added a search to their credit 
files when they hadnt meant to apply for a loan.
What happened
Mr B wanted to apply for a joint loan, with Ms B. He went on NatWests website and saw that 
it offered to give a quote telling him whether he would be likely to be approved for a loan, 
without him having to make a full loan application and without a full credit check being 
recorded on his credit file. He says he began the process to ask for a quote, but then 
discovered  too late  that he had begun a full loan application. Although he did not finish 
the application process, he found that a check had been reported to his credit file, and on 
Ms Bs credit file too. He thought this might prejudice any future application for credit, and so 
he and Ms B complained to NatWest, and then to our service. Ms B is represented by Mr B 
in this complaint.
NatWest said that a quote is not available for joint loans. It said its website had made clear 
to Mr B that a full credit check would be carried out before he had continued with the loan 
application. Therefore no error had been made, and NatWest had a duty to report the credit 
checks, since it had to accurately report what had happened.
Mr B disputed that the website had made clear what would happen. He provided nine 
screenshots of the process he had followed. In particular, he refuted NatWests claim that he 
would have had to tick a box to confirm that he understood that a full credit search would be 
carried out. He accepted that one of the screenshots did show that the website had said that 
a full credit check was going to be carried out, but he argued that the next screenshot in the 
sequence appeared to contradict this, and he had relied on the latter.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He accepted (and NatWest now also accepts) 
that there was no box Mr B would have had to tick before proceeding with the application. 
But he still thought that the warning that a full credit check was about to be carried out had 
been enough, and that NatWest had been obliged to report the checks.
Mr B insisted that the searches had been carried out without his permission. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I have looked at Mr Bs screenshots. Screenshot 5 says Youre about to start your 
application  well run a full credit check.
Screenshot 6 says Get a quote that wont affect your credit score  in most cases well give 
you a personalised quote at the start of your application  with no impact on your credit 
score. (My emphasis.)
Unfortunately, the screenshots are not in the right order. Mr B noticed this himself and told 
us that screenshots 5 and 6 were actually the wrong way around, and that 6 comes before 5 
in the sequence. However, I have compared the screenshots with the actual website, and in 
fact, 6 does not come directly before 5; its actually on the same screen as screenshot 1, 
immediately above the text in screenshot 1. (The rest are in the right order.)
Since the text about getting a quote that wont affect the credit score appears right at the 
beginning of the process, I think it is superseded by the warning in screenshot 5, which 
appears only after the customer has selected some options in screens 3 and 4.
I also think that the text in screenshot 6 makes it clear that an impact-free quote is not 
available in all cases, only in most of them. So the customer has been warned that not every 
application will qualify for the quote, and that it will be necessary to pay attention to the 
subsequent stages of the process.
Screenshot 6 also states that the quote will appear at the start of the application. In 
screenshot 5, later on, there is a heading in a very large font which says Great, lets get 
started! That indicates that the stage at which a quote would have appeared has already 
passed, even before you read the normal-sized text which specifically refers to starting an 
application and running a full credit check.
For all of these reasons, I do not think that NatWest failed to tell Mr B that a full credit check 
would be conducted, or that NatWest made an error by reporting the searches on his credit 
file and on Ms Bs.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman