DRN-4040784
The complaint
Ms D complains Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance 
(Hitachi), has not dealt fairly with a connected lender liability claim she brought against it 
relating to the purchase of a holiday club membership.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 1 March 2023 in which I set out the background to the 
complaint, so I will summarise only briefly what happened in this final decision:
Ms D made a joint purchase of a holiday club membership from a company (C) in 
October 2019, after a series of meetings. The purchase entitled her to use a number 
of points each year to book holiday accommodation within Cs portfolio of 
resorts/properties, from 2020 for a period of 10 years. Ms D was expected to pay 
annual management/service charges for the upkeep of the portfolio.
The total cost of the membership was £18,630, including a £699 admin fee. C threw 
in several incentives as part of the overall deal. These included membership of an 
exchange organisation for two years (which would have allowed Ms D to holiday at a 
wider selection of resorts); an iPad; additional bonus points to use in the first years 
of membership; a bonus week in Spain, Tenerife or Turkey; airport lounge passes 
and preferential car hire rates.
The membership was paid for with a Hitachi point of sale loan arranged by C, with a 
repayment period of 60 months.
Ms Ds membership beginning coincided with the coronavirus pandemic. Her pre-
booked holidays were cancelled and she was refunded their points value. The only 
resorts and accommodations available were ones she wasnt interested in, such as in 
the UK or on canalboats, or which were self-catering. Meanwhile, C continued to 
demand payment of its management fees while apparently receiving subsidies to 
help with staff costs.
A complaint was made to C and Hitachi in June 2020. Ms D argued the contract had 
been frustrated by the pandemic preventing her from using the membership rights 
shed purchased. It was unclear what Cs response was, but Hitachi rejected the 
complaint in October 2020. It said the points value of her pre-booked holidays had 
been credited back to her, and C was fully operational so she could make use of 
her membership. 
Ms D brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She noted that section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA) didnt cover frustration of contract or everything that could go wrong 
with a purchase. She concluded that ultimately the membership entitled Ms D to 
holiday within Cs portfolio, subject to availability. At all times there had been 
something available within the portfolio, albeit not places Ms D wanted to visit. This 
didnt mean there had been a breach of contract. C had refunded the points for Ms 
Ds cancelled booking so there was no breach in respect of this either, while the 
management fees were not funded by the Hitachi loan and so section 75 coverage 
did not apply to a dispute over these.
Ms D disagreed with our investigator. She argued that C hadnt been able to fulfil its 
contract with her for the first three years of her ten year membership. She had made 
it clear when purchasing the membership what kind of places she wanted to holiday 
in, and none of these were available to her. It was no good having her points 
refunded if she couldnt use them. Even the open resorts did not have the usual 
amenities available. Further, various incentives shes been promised had now 
expired or could no longer be provided.
Our investigator considered Ms Ds points but her view remained unchanged. She 
noted that some of Ms Ds points were new ones, like the loss of the incentives and 
lack of amenities at resorts, and not ones we would consider as a result.
The complaint was then passed to me to decide. I thought it was appropriate to look into Ms 
Ds points about the failure to provide the incentives and investigated this point further. 
Ms D said certain incentives, such as preferential car hire, airport lounge access and 
membership of the exchange organisation, had expired. She also said the bonus week 
would no longer be provided as she had learned the company in Cs group which had 
provided it had gone into liquidation.
C acknowledged that the bonus week was no longer available due to the insolvency of an 
associated company. I raised further enquiries of C relating to an internal document included 
in Hitachis case file. This document appeared to show the cost or value of the various 
incentives, along with a subsidy which C had paid to Hitachi, had been included in the cost 
of Ms Ds membership. C said that this was a misunderstanding and the document only 
showed what it had cost C to provide the incentives. It denied passing on these costs to 
Ms D.
I then issued my provisional decision. I firstly considered on what basis Hitachi could be held 
liable by Ms D for what had gone wrong with her purchase. I noted that section 75 of the 
CCA allowed consumers a degree of protection when they purchased goods or services 
using the type of loan Hitachi had granted in this case. I noted that it enabled a consumer to 
claim against the lender for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of 
the goods or services, so long as certain technical conditions were met. 
It was not in dispute whether Ms Ds claim met the technical conditions, but I observed that 
some of the arguments she had made were not based on C breaching the contract or 
misrepresenting something to her. In particular, Ms D was arguing the contract had been 
frustrated due to the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on Cs ability to provide the 
services contracted for. It may or may not have been the case that the contract was 
frustrated, but this was a separate kind of legal claim to a claim for breach of contract and so 
not covered by section 75 of the CCA. I also thought that a point Ms D had made about C 
failing to pass on savings from lower running costs in the form of reduced management fees, 
was not something covered by section 75. This was because it didnt appear to be an 
allegation of breach of contract, rather it was a complaint about how the holiday club was 
being run.
I noted the remainder of Ms Ds complaints about the purchase did focus on breaches of 
contract by C and I went on to consider these in more detail. I noted Ms D had not 
complained of misrepresentation and so I made no findings on whether C had made any 
misrepresentations.I considered it was important to analyse the documents which could be said to form the 
contract between Ms D and C, in order to determine whether it had been breached. I noted 
there were various documents, but two in particular appeared to contain more detail about 
the extent of Cs obligations to Ms D  an Acquisition Agreement and an Information 
Statement. Ms D had signed both of these documents.
The documents contained some important clauses which served to limit Cs responsibility to 
Ms D. For example, on the availability of resorts it stated:
you will be entitled to exercise occupancy rights (subject to availability) in any of the 
Vacation Club Scheme Accommodation
and
all reservation requests in Vacation Club are subject to availability and seasonal 
demandsNo assurances can be given that a specific resort or facility will remain within 
Vacation Club for the lifetime of a members or for the entire duration of the Vacation Club or 
of any individual term of membership.
Similar wording appeared about the availability of specific facilities at resorts.
On the subject of management fees I noted the following wording appeared:
[Members] pay Management Chargesper Points Right heldEach resort included within 
the Vacation Club is responsible for providing management, repair and maintenance of their 
own Accommodation, but [C] pays maintenance fees to those resorts on behalf of the 
Vacation Club. Members are required to contribute to those fees by means of an annual 
service charge (called Management Charge) levied by or on behalf of the Management 
Companyin proportion to the number of Points Rights to which each member is entitled. 
The Charges also include an element for managing and administering the scheme.
and
Management Charges for 2019 are 1287.00 Euros. Fees are subject to review and increase 
by the Vacation Club.
I thought the information in the documents made it apparent that C didnt guarantee the 
availability of specific accommodation at any given time, or if and when certain facilities 
would be available at resorts. The information also showed the management fees were 
payable annually regardless of whether holidays were taken. There was no promise that 
fees would be reduced in circumstances such as those caused by the pandemic.
I recognised Ms D considered that what had happened was unfair, but I was unable to 
conclude that it represented a breach of contract by C. However, my further investigations 
into incentives not supplied led me to conclude Ms D should receive compensation to reflect 
the value of what had not been supplied.
Expanding on this point, I explained that my provisional findings flowed from the effect of 
section 50 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) on the agreement between Ms D and 
C:
The effect of section 50 CRA is to turn anything said or written by the trader, or on their 
behalf, about a service, into a contractual term if a consumer takes it into account when 
entering into a contract. The CRA goes on to explain that where such contractual terms have 
been breached a consumer is entitled to an appropriate price reduction.Ms D was told by C that she would receive various incentives if she signed up for the 
membership. Im satisfied these were things she took account of when deciding to sign up 
for the membership.
The bonus week will not be provided due to the insolvency of the relevant company, and in 
my view this represents a breach of contract bearing in mind the effect of section 50 of the 
CRA. Other benefits have expired, such as the bonus points, but these were available to use 
so its difficult to say theres been a breach of contract in respect of these, for essentially the 
same reason Ive been unable to find the lack of availability of resorts during the pandemic 
represented a breach of contract either.
I went on to consider whether the free nature of the incentives meant Ms D shouldnt 
receive any price reduction in respect of the failure to provide the bonus week, finding 
ultimately that the bonus week did have a value with reference to which a price reduction 
could be calculated:
I think the incentives did have a value which was not explicitly stated on the documents 
Ms D was shown at the point of sale. I say this because the internal document I referred to 
earlier in this decision, which was a type of calculator, used various inputs such as the cost 
to C of the incentives and the subsidy it needed to pay Hitachi, to calculate a minimum 
amount Ms D should be charged for the membership. In view of this I think there are 
appropriate grounds for Ms D to receive a price reduction in respect of the bonus week.
I take Cs point that it needs to account for the cost of incentives, and naturally taking into 
account the cost of selling a product when deciding how to set a price is a normal part of 
doing business. Its not clear if the internal document was used to price the sale or if it was 
just used to check the margin C had made on the sale at a later date. I make no finding on 
that for the purposes of this complaint, not least because Ms D has not complained of being 
misled regarding the price of the incentives. But it does at least show that the incentives had 
a value with reference to which a price reduction can be calculated.
The cost of incentives were included under the category of Extra Giveaways on the internal 
document Ive referenced. Next to this line was an explanation: Please include ipad cost, 
B[onus]p[oin]ts etc. here. In Ms Ds case the amount next to this line was £1,000. According 
to another document Ms D signed at the point of sale, the iPad (which she received) was 
assigned a value of £310. Its unclear what value was assigned to the other benefits, but 
presumably this is information C will have access to, or which it will be able to calculate 
based on the price of accommodation in Spain, Tenerife and Turkey.
Concluding, I said I was minded to find that C had breached its contract with Ms D by failing 
to provide the bonus week due to the insolvency of the company within its group which was 
responsible for providing it. I thought an appropriate remedy would be for Ms D to be 
compensated for the value of the week she would no longer receive and, by virtue of section 
75 of the CCA, she could ask Hitachi to provide that same remedy.
I appreciated there were some difficulties with calculating the value of the bonus week. I said 
that Hitachi would need to do this, in consultation with C, and provide an explanation of how 
it had reached its figure. I said I would need to calculate the figure myself if Hitachi did not 
come up with one, and I set out how I intended to do that. I added that Hitachi would need to 
add compensatory interest to any refund, calculated from the date it had declined Ms Ds 
claim. 
I invited all parties to the complaint to respond to my provisional decision. Both Ms D and 
Hitachi made further submissions.I could summarise Ms Ds submissions as follows:
She would not have proceeded with the purchase had any possibility been raised by 
Cs salespeople that her preferred destinations might not be available to book (or 
compensation of some kind given in lieu of availability). C had not been fully 
operational as it had claimed to be, and still didnt seem to be as she had tried to 
make a booking in Turkey recently and C had not been able to honour it, instead 
transferring the booking to a different resort.
Some of the terms of the contract with C may be unfair and she felt the company had 
been acting in bad faith.
The membership of the exchange organisation may have been shorter than the two 
years promised. Online it said the membership started in June 2019, while her paper 
version started in October 2019.
She hadnt wanted or needed an iPad. Its value had not been discussed but it was 
described as a gift in an accompanying letter. She hadnt been aware shed been 
charged for it. 
C had advised her recently on the phone that all the incentives were now invalid. 
These incentives had been put forward as solutions to her queries during the sales 
process, and she wanted to know if they had been costed and included as part of the 
membership fee. 
She had begun to think that aspects of the sale may have been misrepresented. She 
hadnt known that she may have been misled about the cost of the incentives until 
shed received my provisional decision. She also considered that some other of Cs 
statements had been false, about her having exclusive occupancy rights and that C 
planned, designed and built its own resorts.
C had stopped selling new ownerships and was now partnered with two other large 
holiday companies. Anyone could now book at resorts in Cs portfolio either directly 
or via online platforms, so there was no exclusivity and there would be a negative 
impact on availability. She had also noticed that via online booking platforms it was 
cheaper to book at the same resorts on an all-inclusive basis than through her C 
membership.
Ultimately, although she appreciated it wasnt necessarily Cs fault that it hadnt been 
able to provide the product or service shed paid for, it wasnt her fault either and yet 
she was the one being held to the contract. She felt C could have offered more to 
members like her, for example by extending memberships, offering free weeks or 
other possibilities.
Hitachis further submissions were a mixture of their own comments and Cs comments, 
which I would summarise in the following way:
They didnt agree that they should be held responsible for the failure to provide the 
bonus week. This wasnt a conclusion which had been reached by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service in very similar cases. The bonus week hadnt been a part of the 
contract. It wanted to know what had changed.
It was categorically not the case that the internal document Id mentioned (which 
referred to the cost or value of the incentives) was used to price the sale to Ms D.It had calculated a value for the bonus week of £895.15. It explained how it had 
arrived at this figure, which had been based on Ms D having booked the bonus week 
for October 2020, and taking the average price for a week at all of the two bedroom 
apartments which could have been booked for that time.
Hitachi also said that although it didnt agree with the provisional decision, it would accept it.
The case has now been returned to me to review again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for providing their further submissions following my provisional decision. 
Ive considered both new sets of submissions carefully alongside the evidence previously 
sent.
I will address Hitachis points first. It has quoted from a number of assessments by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service in which C had been unable to provide a bonus week. While 
the extracts provided by Hitachi are incomplete and so the comments I can offer on this are 
limited, it appears the bonus weeks in question were linked to trial memberships to Cs 
holiday club. To take advantage of the trial membership, consumers were required to first go 
on a bonus week, the purpose of which seems to have been to persuade them to upgrade 
their trial membership to a full membership. The bonus weeks could not be provided for the 
same reasons as in Ms Ds case, and it looks like arguments may have been made that this 
invalidated the whole trial membership (as the pre-conditions for using the membership 
could never be met).
I think the situation in Ms Ds case is different. Ms D already had a full membership and its 
use was not contingent, as far as Im aware, on her first going on the bonus week. My main 
basis for finding in my provisional decision that C was contractually bound to provide the 
bonus week, was section 50 of the CRA, which caused anything C said or wrote about the 
services it was providing, and which Ms D took account of, to become a contractual term. It 
hasnt been disputed that C told Ms D she would receive this bonus week and that this was 
something she took account of. And it hasnt been suggested that C qualified this by 
explaining the bonus week wouldnt be provided in certain circumstances. So I see no 
reason to change my conclusions on this point.
Its not clear from the extracts Hitachi has provided whether section 50 of the CRA was 
considered in these other cases. Ultimately however, the situations do not appear to have 
been entirely the same and each case has to be considered on its individual merits.
Regarding the significance of the internal document  the calculator I referred to in my 
provisional decision  I acknowledge Hitachis point of view on this but I made no findings on 
the purpose of this document in my provisional decision. I used the calculator in my 
provisional decision as evidence the bonus week and other incentives had a value or a cost 
with reference to which a potential price reduction for Ms D could be calculated.
Hitachi has now calculated a value for the bonus week, £895.15, and explained the method 
it used to work this out. The method appears to be a reasonable one and the value arrived at 
is comparable to prices I found through research on online booking platforms, so I am 
content to adopt it for the purposes of this final decision.
Turning to Ms Ds submissions, I will begin by restating that Hitachi cannot be held liable for everything that C may have done which is wrong or unfair. There are a lot of things which 
can go wrong with a purchase and which could cause disappointment. There is an 
overarching point which comes across in Ms Ds letter, which is that the membership with C 
has represented poor value for money and the company has treated its members, like her, 
badly. The basis on which Ms D can hold Hitachi liable is section 75 of the CCA, which only 
covers breaches of contract and misrepresentation. Ms Ds points about C failing to offer 
goodwill solutions or concessions to members, or C partnering with other holiday companies, 
would not in my view fall under either of these headings.  
In her further submissions Ms D has begun to advance a claim for misrepresentation. Shes 
referenced false statements being made about the exclusivity of the occupancy rights shed 
enjoy, and the nature of Cs portfolio. Shes also now concerned she may have been misled 
about the cost of the incentives, due to the existence of the internal document referred to in 
my provisional decision. 
I acknowledge that in my provisional decision I agreed to make findings on some points 
which Ms D had not made in her original claim or complaint to Hitachi. I felt it appropriate to 
do this as these points were essentially the same as those which had already been made  
that C had failed to provide things it had agreed to under the contract.
Misrepresentation, on the other hand, has not been a point which has been argued until after 
my provisional decision. Throughout the history of this case, the focus of the complaint has 
been on C failing to provide things it had promised under the contract. At this late stage in 
the complaint, I dont think it would be appropriate for me to make findings on whether or not 
theres been a misrepresentation. Hitachi hasnt had an opportunity properly to investigate 
and address a section 75 claim based on misrepresentation, and I think it would be fair for it 
to be able to do so before the matter is referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
On the question of whether some of Cs terms may have been unfair, I dont think Ms Ds 
submissions on this are specific enough as to which terms she thinks are unfair, for me to be 
able to comment. I would also add that were it to be found that certain terms were unfair, it 
would not necessarily help Ms Ds case against Hitachi. This is because the fairness of a 
contractual term is a different question to the one of whether a contract has been breached. 
Regarding the membership of the exchange organisation, there is not enough information to 
be able to determine whether the membership was shorter than promised, so there is 
nothing I can add to that either. 
Ultimately, while I have considered Ms Ds further submissions carefully they do not change 
the conclusions Ive reached on her complaint. For the same reasons given in my 
summarised provisional findings above, Ive been unable to conclude that the limited 
availability of resorts or continued charging of management fees during the pandemic, 
represented a breach of contract by C for which Hitachi would be liable under section 75 of 
the CCA. 
Similarly, where incentives were available but had simply expired, I am unable to conclude 
this was a breach of contract by C either. However, C cannot supply the promised bonus 
week due to the insolvency of another company in its group. Because Ms D took account of 
this incentive when deciding to purchase the membership, the failure to provide it is in my 
view a breach of contract by C. If Ms D wishes to take a such a holiday now, she will need to 
pay for the accommodation herself, and so an appropriate remedy for the breach of contract 
would be to compensate her the value of the bonus week. I think Hitachis calculation of the 
value of the bonus week - £895.15  appears to be reasonable. Due to the effect of section 
75 of the CCA, Ms D is able to claim this amount from Hitachi.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, including the summarised reasoning from my provisional 
decision, I uphold Ms Ds complaint in part and direct Mitsubishi HC Capital Plc trading as 
Hitachi Finance to take the following actions:
A) Pay Ms D £895.15, this being the cash value of the bonus week.
B) To the amount in A), add 8% simple interest per year*, calculated from the date it 
wrote to Ms D originally declining her claim, to the date the payment is made.
*If Hitachi considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms D how much its taken off. It should also give Ms D a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman