DRN-2942875
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L held a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited. A 
British Gas engineer visited their property to work on their boiler.
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy because the engineer used their step ladder and left it damaged. 
They also say the engineer left behind a bottle, a screwdriver and some rubbish.
British Gas said the engineer used the ladder but didnt recall breaking it. Nor did they recall 
leaving anything behind. British Gas thought the ladder was likely to have been suffering 
from wear and tear for it to break as a result of the engineer using it. Nevertheless, it offered 
to pay around £100 or roughly half the cost of replacing the ladder.
Mr and Mrs L didnt think that was fair. They thought it unlikely the engineer would have used 
the ladder had it been showing signs of damage.
After Mr and Mrs L referred their complaint to this service, British Gas agreed to pay the full 
replacement cost of the ladder - £217.15 including shipping. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres been much discussion about whether the step ladder was suffering from wear and 
tear at the time the engineer used it and how likely it is that a single use by the engineer 
could have caused the damage.
Its not in dispute that the engineer used the step ladder and afterwards one of the steps was 
damaged. Its possible it was suffering from a degree of wear and tear beforehand. But if the 
ladder was significantly damaged, I think its unlikely the engineer would have chosen to use 
it regardless  or not noticed the damage. So, on balance, Im not persuaded the step ladder 
was likely to have been significantly damaged and was essentially in an ordinary working 
condition. Its now broken, and Mr and Mrs L have had to buy a replacement.
As a result, I think it was reasonable for British Gas to offer to pay the full replacement cost. 
That means it should pay £217.15  and if its paid anything towards it already, that cost can 
be deducted from the final settlement.
The engineer doesnt recall leaving behind any items or rubbish. And they say they dont use 
the particular brand of screwdriver or oil Mr and Mrs L found. However, it seems unlikely that 
Mr and Mrs L would have reported this to British Gas if somebody else had left the items 
there.
But even if the items were left by British Gas, its unlikely Id consider compensation was 
warranted in these circumstances. I think the inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs L by 
disposing of the items and rubbish was minor. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to 
require British Gas to pay compensation for whats happened.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay £217.15.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman