DRN-3872838
The complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK plc (Santander)sent him a new cash card without his 
knowledge or authorisation. He would like an apology, and compensation for the stress 
caused.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I need to make it clear that in the decision I wont be considering the findings of Mr 
Es previous complaint to our service. I have however reviewed our services file on 
that and considered anything that is relevant for me in deciding the issue at hand 
here.
There is no dispute that Mr E didnt ask for a card to be issued for his account. From 
what I understand Santander issued the card in response to a previous complaint to 
this service. I have seen slightly contradictory information about this. The 
investigators view on the previous decision states she discussed the possibility of a 
card on the account with Santander who thought it would help Mr E and so issued 
one. In response to this complaint Santander has told us that the investigator asked if 
it was possible to issue a card but this was misinterpreted as a request for a card to 
be issued which it did. But even if this were the case I think Santander made an 
honest mistake and was simply trying to help Mr E access his account. So, whilst I 
agree Mr E didnt ask for a card I dont think Santanders actions were unreasonable 
in the circumstances.
 I also understand that the investigator in the previous complaint advised Mr E that he 
could cancel the card which he subsequently did.  
I dont think its appropriate to ask Santander to apologise to Mr E, it didnt 
deliberately issue a card without his knowledge or authoristation but in response to 
our service trying to find a resolution to Mr E getting access to his account. 
There is inevitably always some inconvenience when a complaint is made but that 
doesnt always mean its appropriate to pay compensation. I dont think its 
appropriate to ask Santander to pay any compensation in this case. The card was 
sent to the correct address and we know Mr E received it so there was no security 
breach. And Mr E was able to cancel the card. Finally, he has not made us aware of 
any financial impact on him from receiving the card that I could consider.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman