DRN-3169093
The complaint
Miss J is complaining My Policy Ltd cancelled her car insurance policy twice.
What happened
In October 2019 Miss J took out a car insurance policy through My Policy Ltd  a broker. It 
was a condition of the insurance policy that a telematics box was installed in Miss Js car 
that monitored how she used it. When she took out the policy, she said shed drive around 
5,000 miles a year. 
My Policy Ltd contacted Miss J a number of times to say that it seemed likely she was going 
to exceed the declared mileage, which would result in an additional premium being payable. 
In July 2020 it wrote to Miss J again to say she needed to increase the mileage on the policy 
and it said it would cancel the policy if she didnt do so. Miss J called to dispute the mileage, 
so My Policy Ltd asked her to provide proof of the cars mileage at the time and it agreed to 
allow her an extra period of time to do so before it cancelled the policy. However, due to an 
administrative error, it incorrectly cancelled the insurance policy leaving an outstanding 
balance of around £300. 
Miss J complained My Policy Ltd had cancelled the policy. It apologised, waived the 
outstanding balance she owed and offered her £100 in compensation. It also set up a new 
insurance policy and said it didnt charge any fees for doing so.
However, in September 2020 My Policy Ltd contacted Miss J again to say the telematics 
device was recording that she was doing around double the expected mileage and said she 
needed to increase the mileage again. In October 2020, Miss J increased her annual 
mileage and an additional premium was applied as a result.
In November 2020 Miss J called to dispute the increase in the direct debit payment she was 
paying to pay her annual premium as she didnt think it was correct. My Policy Ltd said it 
would look into this. However it later contacted her to say the payment amount was correct. 
It also said she was in arrears and would cancel the insurance policy if she didnt make up 
the arrears. She didnt do so, so My Policy Ltd cancelled the policy leaving an outstanding 
balance of around £400.
Miss J complained that My Policy Ltd cancelled her car insurance policy and also maintained 
that the box was recording an incorrect mileage as she disputed she was doing the miles 
she said she was. She said she couldnt afford to get another insurance policy as she was 
off work due to stress and she said My Policy Ltd was causing this stress.
My Policy Ltd later contacted this service and said an error had occurred as a new 
telematics box was installed in August 2020 when the new policy started, but the previous 
box wasnt removed. This meant the devices were saying Miss J was doing double the miles 
she was actually doing and it accepted fault for what had happened. So it said it would waive 
the outstanding balance and offered a further £200 in compensation. 
I issued a provisional decision saying I thought My Policy Ltd had taken fair steps to put 
things right. And I said the following:
My Policy Ltd has accepted it shouldnt have cancelled either insurance policy when it did. 
So I dont need to comment any further on this in this decision. My role in this decision is to 
decide whether I think My Policy Ltds latest compensation offer is fair. I think it is and Ill 
now explain why.
Miss Js unhappiness seems to be routed around the following:
1. She should have generated a years NCD, but lost out on this because neither policy ran 
for a year;
2. She says the way My Policy Ltd has acted has added to her mental distress which has 
resulted in her being off work for a long time;
3. She wasnt been able to get another insurance policy because she was in financial 
difficulties. She needed an insurance policy to enable her to work, so she said the 
cancellation of the policy put her in a worse financial position. 
Miss J took out the first insurance policy in October 2019. It was cancelled in July 2020. The 
replacement policy ran until December 2020 before that was cancelled. So its clear she 
would have generated a years NCD had the first policy not been cancelled. My Policy Ltd 
says its calculated Miss J would only have lost around £15 for this over the course of five 
years. But at a different time, it said she would have lost around £215 per year. Its also 
highlighted its possible she could have lost her NCD if she had to make a claim. 
Ultimately, its impossible to know precisely what Miss Js loss would have been due to not 
generating a years NCD. But I think its likely to be more than £15, although I do understand 
My Policy Ltds point she could have lost that NCD if she made a claim. But I havent seen 
anything to show she did. So I do think My Policy Ltd needs to compensate her for this. But I 
think the amount of compensation also needs to be weighed against the amount My Policy 
Ltd has already paid.
Ive also taken into consideration Miss Js comments about the amount of distress and 
inconvenience this matter cause her. Shes also said My Policy Ltds cancellation of the 
insurance policy meant she wasnt able to work because she couldnt get a replacement 
policy because of the financial situation she was in.
However, I also think it should be noted at this point that Miss J was already two months in 
arrears on her finance agreement by the time the policy was cancelled. Shed also been off 
work for around two months before the cancellation issues arose and was off work for at 
least two months afterwards. Further to this, I note the finance provider cancelled the finance 
agreement in December 2020. Its a term in the insurance policy that My Policy Ltd could 
cancel the insurance policy if Miss J got into arrears on the finance agreement taken out to 
pay the annual premium. My Policy Ltd needed to exercise this term fairly and reasonably. 
But, given the financial situation Miss J was in, its a strong likelihood her insurance policy 
would have been cancelled anyway, even if there wasnt the issue with the mileage. 
I fully appreciate and empathise with the situation Miss J found herself in. But, I dont think I 
can safely say it was My Policy Ltds decision to cancel her insurance policy that was the 
reason she was without insurance. And, I think its most likely, this was down to the 
difficulties she was facing at the time.
That said, I do not dispute that these issues would have clearly added to what was clearly 
already a very distressing time for her. And I think My Policy Ltd should compensate her for 
this, in addition to the loss of the years NCD. But, I also need to think about the level of compensation My Policy Ltd has offered Miss J to date. So far, it says its compensated her 
in the following way:
1. Offered £400 in compensation;
2. Waived the balance Miss J owed on her finance agreement at the cancellation of each 
insurance policy (around £700); and
3. £15 for what it estimated the increase in premium would be for the loss of the NCD. Miss 
J had the benefit around 14 months of insurance and a finance agreement to enable her 
to pay this. I think its fair she should have to pay for this. But Im conscious she missed 
two payments  totalling around £200. My Policy Ltd waived around £700. So this is 
£700 less than what Miss J would have paid had the policies not been cancelled. So, in 
total, it seems to me shes received around £1,100 in compensation.
As I said, I do not dispute this matter has caused Miss J a significant amount of distress and 
inconvenience and she has also lost out financially as a result. But I think My Policy Ltd has 
already offered more in compensation than I would have awarded. So I dont think it needs 
to pay her anything further.
Miss J didnt agree with my provisional decision. She disputed shed had £400 in 
compensation. She also didnt think the £700 should have been there in the first place had 
she not have had to set up two policies.
My Policy Ltd responded to say it accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Miss Js comments into account but I dont think shes added anything I hadnt 
considered before. I note she says she hasnt received the £400 in compensation I said 
My Policy Ltd had offered. But My Policy Ltd has set out in its correspondence its offered 
her £400 in compensation. If shes not have received all the compensation, My Policy Ltd 
should pay this to her directly.
I appreciate Miss J doesnt consider the waived £700 in charges as compensation. But she 
did owe RSA this money. And, as I said above, she did miss two monthly payments. Shes 
ultimately paid less than she would have done had the policies not been cancelled. So I think 
its fair to treat it as compensation.
Ultimately, my provisional decision sets out why I consider these offers to be fair. And I dont 
have anything to add that I havent set out before.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think My Policy Ltds 
compensation offer (as follows) is fair compensation. It should do the following if it hasnt 
already done so:
1. Pay £400 in compensation if it hasnt already done so;
2. Waive the balance Miss J owed on her finance agreement at the cancellation of each 
insurance policy (around £700); and
3. Pay £15 for what it estimated the increase in premium would be for the loss of the NCD.I dont award anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.  
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman