DRN-3415312
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc provided poor levels of 
service and communication when it was unable to make important payments.
What happened
E wanted to pay its employees using online banking on 30 July 2021. It says that there had 
already been a delay due to sickness. E was unable to access online banking and called 
The Co-op. The director explains that she had to wait nearly two hours to get through. And 
when she did was told no payments could be made and she would have to go to a branch 
with identification. She is unhappy that no explanation was given and believes that she could 
have made the payments through online banking when the system was restored.
The Co-op said that it doesnt guarantee that its online banking will always be available, and 
it referred to the ability normally to deal with it over the phone. It said that there had been a 
problem with overnight payment files on 29 July 2021. And that this was resolved during the 
next day. It said it would pass on Es feedback including about call waiting times. It paid E 
£75 as a gesture of goodwill given what had happened.
Our investigator didnt recommend that The Co-op do anything more. There were two 
reasons why E couldnt make the payments. First the online banking system wasnt working. 
And second there had been an attempted fraud on Es account and as a security measure 
the director was required to go to a branch. This complaint is by a separate legal entity and a 
company cant suffer distress. She thought that the compensation was reasonable.
E didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed and said that £75 wasnt sufficient. It 
asked for about two weeks to provide its further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
E has had a reasonable opportunity to make any further comments or provide evidence. It 
hasnt provided anything further and I understand is now waiting for my decision.
The Co-op had a concern that an attempt had been made by a fraudster to access Es 
account over the telephone. So, it suspended telephone access to the account. Its a matter 
for The Co-op to decide how to deal with this. And here it wanted a director to go to a branch 
with identification. I can see why it wouldnt want to discuss the position over the phone as it 
wouldnt be safely able to verify who it was dealing with. 
This unfortunately came to light at the time that E was under internal pressure to make 
payments to its employees and when the online banking system was down. By the time the 
director had got through to The Co-op on the phone and been told what was required the 
nearest branch was closed. And so, she had to go the next morning. I think had she then 
known about the attempted fraud shed have wanted to do that as soon as possible anyway. 
She sets out that she made payments to the employees from her own account in the 
meantime. The issue was resolved the next day.
E says that as far as it understands its online banking resumed before it went to the branch. 
And so, it could have made the payments anyway. I cant see from the information I have 
that the account had been blocked online. But as I say The Co-op wouldnt discuss anything 
over the phone with E.
The attempted fraud to the account has caused inconvenience but Im afraid thats primarily 
due to the actions of that third-party fraudster and not The Co-op. And it was reasonable for 
precautions to be taken to protect telephone access to the account. The online banking 
system was also down for a period and The Co-op doesnt provide a guarantee of service. E 
arranged for mitigating actions to be taken and the issue was resolved the next day.
I appreciate E wants more compensation for the inconvenience. But I think that the amount 
of £75 paid is a reasonable settlement taking into account the points Ive made above. I 
know the director will be disappointed about this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that The Co-operative Bank 
Plc need do no more than it has already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman