DRN-1965317
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) avoided his car insurance 
policy and rejected a claim he made for misrepresentation.
All reference to Tesco in my decision includes its agents 
What happened
In June 2019 Mr B bought a car insurance policy with Tesco. Later that month he made a 
claim due to flood damage to his car. Tesco instructed an engineer to inspect Mr Bs car who 
said it had been poorly resprayed to a different colour. 
In July 2019 Tesco decided to avoid Mr Bs policy. It said he hadnt told it about this 
modification when he bought the policy. If he had, Tesco wouldnt have provided insurance. 
On 10 July 2019 Mr G told Tesco his car had been wrapped and not resprayed. So Tesco 
reversed its decision and reconsidered his claim. It said that it would accept a car that had a 
standard vinyl wrap  even though Mr B hadnt disclosed it when he bought the policy. 
However, a second engineer said that in his opinion the coating on Mr Bs car had been 
applied poorly and there was evidence of overspray all over the car which he said would 
require considerable work to remove. He said the type of coating on Mr Bs car was not a 
conventional wrap.
So on 25 July 2019 Tesco made a final decision to avoid Mr Bs policy for a qualifying 
misrepresentation. It refunded the premium to Mr B and it didnt meet his claim. 
Mr B was very unhappy with Tescos decision. Tesco didnt uphold his complaint about its 
decision. But it said it had caused a delay of five days in logging his complaint. For this it 
apologised and paid Mr B £50 compensation. 
Mr B asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought Tescos decision to avoid 
his policy was reasonable. But he thought Tesco should pay Mr B a further £50 
compensation. He thought Tesco shouldnt have made the decision to reverse the voidance 
of the policy without first considering the second engineers opinion. The investigator thought 
this may have caused some confusion. 
Mr B is unhappy that Tesco wont consider a report he says he obtained. Tesco said Mr B 
told it the report confirmed a price to remove the coating. It didnt confirm that the coating 
applied wasnt a respray. So this was why Tesco said the report wouldnt make a difference 
to its decision. 
Tesco didnt agree it should pay any additional compensation to Mr B. It said it agreed to 
reverse the avoidance based on what Mr B said  that his car hadnt been resprayed. But a 
second engineer pointed to evidence of overspray and supported the first engineers view. 
So Tesco didnt think it should compensate Mr B for agreeing to reconsider his claim. It said 
it tried to do everything it could to consider Mr Bs claim.
Mr B sent a photo of his car after he removed the coating. He asked if Tesco would 
reconsider his claim. But Tesco said it made its decision based on the modifications to the 
car when Mr B made his claim. 
I issued a provisional decision on 26 May 2020. I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Tesco didnt reply to my provisional decision. Mr B initially didnt agree, but changed his 
mind. He intends to raise new complaints with Tesco. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B accepted my provisional decision and Tesco hasnt commented, my final decision is 
along the same lines. 
Where a complaint arises from non-disclosure of information important to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy was taken out. We check that the 
information given would affect whether a policy was offered or its terms. And we check 
whether the policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide accurate information. If not, 
we consider whether they did so deliberately, recklessly or carelessly. Tesco said that Mr B 
deliberately misrepresented the facts in order to buy his policy. I have taken account of The 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 CIDRA as it applies in this 
case.
Mr B bought the policy online through a comparison website. The question he was asked 
was: Has the car been modified, adapted and/or fitted with any optional extras such as 
changes to the bodywork, engine or wheels?
Mr B answered no. When Tesco sent Mr B his policy documents, this included a Statement 
of Fact document which set out the statement about modifications again. It said;
The vehicle has been adapted, altered or modified from the manufacturers original 
specification that alters its performance . Or appearance (such as body kits, 
spoilers, alloy wheels, lowered suspension of blacked out windows) other than 
manufacturer options fitted to the car from new...
Mr B stated no. I understand Mr B said he had difficulty obtaining a log book for the car  
but it was Mr Bs responsibility to take reasonable care when answering the questions set by 
the insurer. And if unsure, Tescos policy booklet provided further information about 
modifications. It says Mr B must tell it if anything changes from the information given on the 
Statement of Fact. And it said Mr B must tell it about any modifications to the car that 
changes its appearance. Tesco explained that a failure to do so may result in his policy 
being voided, all claims refused and no return of premium. 
So I think Tesco asked Mr B a clear question which he didnt take reasonable care to 
answer. Im therefore satisfied that a qualifying misrepresentation was made. Where an 
insurer decides the misrepresentation was careless, it should refund the premium when it 
avoids the policy. But if an insurer finds the misrepresentation was deliberate, it can choose 
to keep the premium. In this case, Tesco provided a refund. So I think Tesco acted 
reasonably here. 
Tesco said it wont accept a modification other than a standard vinyl wrap. So even though 
Mr B hadnt disclosed it, Tescos underwriter said it would consider his claim on this basis. But from the information provided by Mr B  and the engineers report  this doesnt describe 
the coating that was on Mr Bs car. The second engineer said:
The vehicles exterior coating is not paint but some sort of rubberised material which 
is peeling off in several areas. While it may be possible to remove the outer coating it 
would be a mammoth undertaking as it has been poorly applied and all the vehicles 
apertures have considerable overspray and all the vehicles fixtures, fittings and glass 
would need to be removed to enable them to be cleaned due to poor and sometimes 
non existing masking. I would include removal of bonnet and doors etc. to gain 
access to the apertures. Some of the vehicles rubber seals and trims would need to 
be replaced. The dip the vehicle is coated with can be easily removed according to 
their website, but I have found several other references on other sites stating that it is 
not easily removable if it has been applied poorly in the first instance. It has been 
applied poorly to this vehicle in my opinion. Whilst the dip is not a conventional wrap 
it does completely change the colour and look of a vehicle and I suspect that should 
repairs have to be done to the vehicle with the modification there would be 
considerable difficulty matching the colour and texture of the dip again.
In November 2019 Mr B said hed obtained a specialist paint report. Hes unhappy that 
Tesco told him it wouldnt consider it before he sent it to them. Tesco said it discussed the 
report with Mr B. As Mr B said it didnt confirm that his car hadnt been resprayed: but an 
estimate of the costs to remove the coating, Tesco said it wouldnt change the outcome. 
Mr B hasnt provided us with a copy of the report. 
In February 2020 Mr B provided an updated photo of the exterior of his car. He said it didnt 
take him long to remove the coating. He reiterated his request for Tesco to meet his claim.
However, I think Tescos decision to avoid Mr Bs policy was reached reasonably and in line 
with CIDRA in July 2019. So even though Mr B has now removed the cause of the 
misrepresentation, I dont think Tesco should now reconsider his claim and reinstate his 
policy. If for example Mr Bs car had alloy wheels or blacked out windows  and if the 
underwriter showed it wouldnt have offered a policy knowing about these  it wouldnt be 
reasonable to ask an insurer to reconsider a claim because a customer removed the items 
afterwards. 
I dont think Tescos decision to cancel the voidance and reconsider Mr Bs claim was 
unreasonable on 10 July 2019 when he said his car hadnt been resprayed. The decision 
may have raised Mr Bs expectations  but I think this would have been the case even if 
Tesco hadnt cancelled the voidance. This is because the message to Mr B on 10 July 2019 
was that it was prepared to reconsider the claim. But after it received a second engineers 
opinion, the view remained that Mr Bs car hadnt been wrapped in a way its underwriter 
would have accepted. So the final decision was delayed by two weeks while Tesco 
reconsidered its decision based on what Mr B told it. I dont think what Tesco did here 
warrants a compensation payment for distress and inconvenience. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think Tescos decision to avoid Mr Bs policy and refuse his claim 
was made reasonably and in line with the policy. So I dont think it needs to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman