DRN-2371334
The complaint
Miss S complains that Logic Investments Ltd mis-sold her a Self Invested Personal Pension
(SIPP). She also complains that the investments Logic advised her to buy for the SIPP were
unsuitable.
What happened
Logic Investments Limited, through its appointed representative Mayfair, transferred Miss Ss 
three personal pensions to a SIPP in 2016. It then advised her in connection with the SIPP 
investments. 
Miss S transferred the SIPP investments to a different provider in 2017.
Miss S considers the SIPP was mis-sold, and says the investments Logic advised her to 
make were unsuitable. She wants Logic to put her into the position she wouldve been in if 
she hadnt arranged the SIPP.
The investigator didnt find Logic had treated Miss S fairly. He said Logic should pay into 
Miss Ss pension plan the difference between the value of her investments if theyd been 
invested in line with her attitude to risk, and the actual value of her investments. He said 
Logic should also pay £300 to Miss S for the trouble and upset caused.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 21 October 2020 and said I intended to 
uphold it. But I considered this to be a finely balanced complaint, so I wanted to give the 
parties an opportunity to make any further representations before I issued a final decision.
Ive set out my provisional findings below:
Id seen evidence to show Miss Ss SIPP application was received by the SIPP 
provider in October 2016. The providers New SIPP Checklist recorded Mayfair 
Capital Ltd as Miss Ss independent financial adviser and the firm was also named 
on the electronic data sheet supplied to the provider.
Logic suggested it didnt have any contact with Miss S before her SIPP application 
was submitted. 
An unrelated third party financial adviser had also been mentioned during the 
complaint. So it was possible that the third party submitted Miss Ss SIPP application 
on her behalf. 
But whether the application was submitted by the third party or Mayfair, I needed to 
consider whether there was anything about the application that shouldve caused 
Mayfair to question whether it was appropriate for Miss S to proceed with the SIPP.
Its not uncommon for third party introducers to suggest SIPP investments that are 
considerably high risk. I accepted that in Miss Ss case, the investments she 
eventually made werent very high risk. So I didnt consider the nature of the 
investments meant Mayfair shouldve realised it wasnt appropriate for her to proceed 
with the SIPP, taking into account her known circumstances and objectives.
Logic had also provided a letter that Miss S signed on 9 December 2016, which 
suggested it was acting on an execution only basis. But this was signed after Miss S 
had made her SIPP application. In the application form, Miss S ticked the boxes 
requesting both an execution only and advisory service. Logic had said that an 
execution only document was sent to Miss S, but I thought it would have been good 
practice to understand why Miss S had ticked both boxes. I thought it was unusual for 
someone who is confident that they dont need advice to have indicated that they 
might. And I couldnt find anything which explained why the advisory part of Miss 
Ss request wasnt explored and discounted. So I didnt think I could safely say that 
Logic acted on an execution only basis, or at least that questions shouldnt have 
been asked about the validity of the execution only process, when the SIPP was 
arranged.
If Logic wasnt acting on an execution only basis, but wasnt making a personal 
recommendation, it had to take account of the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. COBS 10.2 requires a 
business to carry out an appropriateness assessment, by asking questions about the 
customers experience and knowledge of the product they plan to invest in. This is to 
determine whether the customer understands the risks involved. I hadnt seen 
anything to suggest that Logic made those sorts of enquiries with Miss S.
But if I accepted that Logic was providing an execution only service, it still didnt 
necessarily follow that it was appropriate for it to arrange the SIPP. If Mayfair knew 
Miss S hadnt taken financial advice, it had an obligation under COBS 2.1.1 to act in 
her best interests. But I wasnt persuaded it did so in this instance. 
Logic said that by signing its trading account application dated 9 December 2016, 
Miss S agreed to the statements in that application about her experience of 
investments and attitude to risk. 
I accepted that the application suggested Miss S was a fairly regular trader in 
collective investments, major shares and shares in smaller companies. It also 
indicated Miss S was willing to expose up to 25% of her SIPP to high risk or 
speculative investments, and that she preferred an Adventurous SIPP portfolio 
model. 
But I noted that the application appeared to have been filled out on a computer, and 
given to Miss S to sign. I hadnt seen any evidence of a meeting or discussion with 
Miss S where she provided the information that ended up on the form. And such 
meetings are usually the forum in which to address potential anomalies in the 
information provided, which I addressed later in the provisional decision.
I took account of Miss Ss recorded circumstances at the time. She was working, had 
a mortgage and modest savings. Her main pension provision was through her 
employers occupational scheme. Given the nature of her employer, I considered the 
benefits from that scheme were likely to be very good.
By comparison, the personal pensions in question represented a small proportion of 
Miss Ss pension provision. They were also invested through mainstream providers. 
Keeping those points in mind, on balance I thought it wouldve been reasonable for 
Logic to question whether the information on the application form was an accurate reflection of Miss Ss experience of pension investments, or her attitude to risk. From 
what Id seen of Miss Ss circumstances at the time I thought it was unlikely Miss S 
wouldve taken the initiative to transfer her private pensions to a SIPP without some 
sort of prompt from a third party. And I thought this shouldve been apparent to Logic 
too.
Logic said the transferred pensions represented only a small part of Miss Ss overall 
pension provision. It also pointed out that she was several years away from 
retirement and wanted to maximise the capital return on her personal pension 
investments.
But I wasnt persuaded that these points meant Miss Ss attitude to risk was high, or 
that this should have been accepted without question in the presence of other factors 
which might have suggested otherwise. Miss Ss main pension provision was through 
her employers occupational scheme where the benefits would be guaranteed. And I 
thought it was unlikely that Miss S planned to rely on her personal pensions for her 
main benefits in retirement. But I wasnt persuaded that this meant, or perhaps more 
importantly, that the evidence supported the position, that she was either prepared, 
or in a position, to take a high level of investment risk with her personal pension 
provision. 
Whilst there may have been several years left until her retirement, the cash 
equivalent value of the defined benefits wasnt especially high and would have 
converted into a fairly modest annuity. Miss Ss recorded investment experience was 
also quite limited, certainly in terms of the value of investments which she had 
apparently exposed to investment in shares. I thought it wouldve been reasonable 
for Logic to take an overall view of Miss Ss circumstances and pension provision. 
And had it done so, I didnt consider it wouldve been reasonable for the business to 
accept without further investigation that she was a high risk investor.  
In light of Miss Ss overall circumstances, I thought it wouldve been reasonable for 
Logic to realise that the information in her application form may not have been an 
accurate representation of her attitude to risk. So I considered it wouldve been 
reasonable for Logic to carry out further checks with Miss S to make sure the SIPP 
was suitable for her  which would likely have revealed the true nature of her 
investment experience, attitude to risk and financial situation. I wasnt persuaded that 
it did that. 
If Logic had made further enquiries with Miss S, I thought it was unlikely that it could 
reasonably have concluded that the transfer of her personal pension provision to the 
SIPP was in her best interests. 
So I considered the performance of Miss Ss pension should be measured against 
how it wouldve performed if it had remained invested in her previous pension plans. 
I said if Miss Ss pension had suffered a loss, Logic should pay an amount 
representing that loss into Miss Ss pension. I said it should also pay £300 for the 
trouble and upset caused  specifically the worry that a part of her pension provision 
has been exposed to high risk investments. 
Miss S and Logic didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I intend to maintain the 
position set out in my provisional decision.
I remain of the view that, if Logic had acted in her best interests, Miss S would have 
remained in her existing pension plans.
Putting things right
My aim is that Miss S should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that, if Logic had acted in her best interests, Miss S would have remained in 
her existing pension plans.
What should Logic do?
To compensate Miss S fairly, Logic must:
Compare the performance of Miss S's SIPP with the notional value of her existing 
pension plans, had they remained in place.
If there is a loss, Logic should pay into Miss S's SIPP to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Logic is unable to pay the total amount into Miss S's SIPP, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Miss S's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. 
For example, if Miss S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Miss S would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation. I have assumed that Miss S would have been a basic rate tax 
payer, so a 15% reduction should apply.
Pay to Miss S £300 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold the complaint. I direct Logic Investments Ltd to pay any loss 
calculated as set out above.
Logic Investments Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Miss S in a clear, simple 
format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman