DRN-3097872
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC treated them unfairly after the term of 
the interest only portion of their mortgage ended.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took a mortgage with Barclays in 2005. They borrowed just over £336,500 on 
a part interest only, part repayment basis. £140,000 was borrowed on an interest only basis, 
repayable over a term of 10 years  meaning it was due to be repaid in 2015. The remaining 
sum borrowed was on a capital repayment basis over a term of 22 years, running until 2027.
The mortgage also provided Mr and Mrs S with a mortgage current account, and a mortgage 
reserve facility. The reserve facility operates similarly to an overdraft on the mortgage 
current account  but is also secured against Mr and Mrs S property, under the mortgage 
charge. And it needs to be paid off in full at the end of the mortgage term. The level of the 
reserve was initially just over £30,000. The amount available under the reserve increased, 
as the mortgage itself was repaid.
The term of the interest only borrowing expired in 2015. Mr and Mrs S were asked how they 
intended to repay the balance. They said they intended to cash in pensions belonging to 
Mr S. But these were not due to mature until 2017. And the value of the two pensions was 
less than the amount owed. An agreement was made with Barclays, after details of Mr and 
Mrs S income and expenditure were provided, that they could make overpayments to the 
interest only part of the mortgage, to reduce the balance, with the proceeds of the pensions 
being credited to the account as lump sums when these became available in 2017. They 
could then continue to repay the remaining balance, through overpayments, at the agreed 
level  with it due to be repaid in full through these overpayments within a couple of years. 
In 2017, when the lump sum payments from the pensions were due to be made, Mr and 
Mrs S explained to Barclays that the figures previously given when agreeing the plan for 
repayment hadnt factored in that tax would be deducted from the pension proceeds. As a 
result, the shortfall after the pension proceeds were paid to the account would be 
approximately £31,000 more than anticipated when the repayment plan was agreed. So, 
Mr and Mrs S provided updated income and expenditure information and asked to pay the 
additional amount still owing through further overpayments.
Barclays declined this proposal  as it felt Mr and Mrs S could not afford the increased 
payments and even if they could, at the rate suggested it would be a number of years before 
the balance was paid off.
Mr and Mrs S cashed in a third pension belonging to Mr S in order to clear the interest only 
balance in full. This was done in early 2018. The repayment portion of the mortgage 
continued and is still scheduled to run until 2027. 
After repayment of the interest only borrowing, the level of borrowing available to Mr and 
Mrs S through their mortgage reserve facility increased by an equivalent amount. They used 
that amount for other spending.
Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs S about their mortgage current account and reserve facility in 
2020. The letter included an outline of how the facility worked and the need for it to be repaid 
by the end of the mortgage term. 
Mr and Mrs S then complained to Barclays. They said they didnt think Barclays had treated 
them fairly when their interest only term ended and had forced them to cash in pensions, 
causing them to incur a significant amount of tax. They said Barclays hadnt made it clear 
that the reserve facility was linked to the interest only borrowing, and that the amount 
available under that facility would increase as they paid back the mortgage. They said, if 
Barclays had made this clear, they could have used the reserve facility to repay the interest 
only portion of the borrowing  by paying the borrowing off incrementally, using the reserve 
as it became available. This wouldve meant they didnt have to use Mr S pensions  which 
wouldve avoided the tax loss and the loss of future increases in the pension value. So, they 
thought Barclays shouldve suggested this as an option and by not doing so had acted 
unfairly and caused them a loss.
Barclays didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had provided time  over two 
additional years  for the interest only borrowing to be repaid. It said it wasnt responsible for 
establishing the tax implications of using the pension, so wasnt at fault for the figures used 
during the original proposal being wrong. And it said it hadnt done anything wrong by not 
recommending the reserve facility be used to repay the borrowing as this would simply result 
in the debt being moved and not repaid and was not something it would suggest.
The complaint was referred to our service and considered by one of our investigators. He 
didnt think Barclays had acted unreasonably when considering the proposals made to it by 
Mr and Mrs S. He also didnt think it was unfair that Barclays hadnt suggested the reserve 
facility as a repayment plan for the interest only borrowing. But he noted Barclays had 
increased the facility. So, as it was willing to do this  allow borrowing to that level until the 
main mortgage expired in 2027  it could potentially have done more when the interest only 
term ended. He didnt think this had caused a loss that wouldnt otherwise have been 
incurred. But he did recommended Barclays pay £250 for the distress caused.
Barclays accepted our investigators view and confirmed it was willing to offer the £250 
suggested.
Mr and Mrs S rejected the investigators view. They still felt Barclays had acted unfairly by 
not suggesting they use the reserve facility to repay the interest only borrowing. And they felt 
this had caused them a loss as otherwise they wouldnt have cashed in the pensions and 
wouldve repaid the balance by other means in 2027, meaning the tax loss would never have 
been incurred.
As Mr and Mrs S did not agree with our investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage agreement made between Mr and Mrs S and Barclays was that, when the 
term of the interest only part of the borrowing expired in 2015, the amount borrowed on 
those terms would be repaid in full. In my view, it wasnt unreasonable for Barclays to expect 
the repayment to be made as agreed or for it to make enquiries or request this. 
Barclays asked Mr and Mrs S how the amount would be repaid. And it didnt provide them with advice at that time. Mr and Mrs S offered to repay the borrowing through releasing 
funds from pensions and making overpayments. Barclays assessed this proposal, in 2015, 
based on the figures provided to it, and deemed it acceptable. And it agreed an extension, 
beyond the original term end to allow this plan to be completed. It wasnt responsible for 
providing advice relating to the tax implications of this proposal. And I think it was 
reasonable that Barclays assumed Mr and Mrs S had already obtained independent advice 
relating to this. Rather Barclays was required to fairly consider matters  which I think it did.
In late 2017, when the lump sum was due to be released, and following independent advice, 
Mr and Mrs S made Barclays aware that there was a tax liability that would be incurred as a 
result of their initial plan. Again, Barclays wasnt responsible for assessing this when the 
proposal was originally made, and I think was it entitled to assume this had already been 
considered.
The tax liability meant less money would be available than Mr and Mrs S and Barclays 
thought, in 2015. So, the plan agreed in 2015 for clearing the balance couldnt be completed. 
Mr and Mrs S made a fresh proposal. Barclays again was required to consider this. And Im 
satisfied it did. Barclays decided the new proposal was not acceptable, based on how long it 
would take to complete and it not considering the new payments affordable to Mr and Mrs S. 
And based on what Ive seen I dont think that decision was unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs S have said they then felt forced to cash in another pension and clear the 
balance in full as Barclays was asking for repayment. But again, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Barclays to ask for repayment, based on the original mortgage agreement 
being this would be made in 2015, two years prior to these further discussions. And I dont 
agree that Mr and Mrs S were forced to use their pensions to clear the balance. They 
mightve felt this was their best option as the proposal theyd made after learning of the tax 
liability was not acceptable to Barclays. But I cant see that any alternative suggestion was 
put forward by Mr and Mrs S or discussed. And I havent seen anything that leads me to 
conclude Barclays said it wouldnt consider any further suggestions. 
So, taking all of this into account, I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably when 
considering the repayment proposals Mr and Mrs S made.
When the interest only balance was repaid, the amount available under the mortgage 
reserve was increased  in line with how that facility operated. So, if Barclays was willing to 
allow borrowing under that facility, by increasing it, I think it couldve potentially considered 
an extension of the interest only facility instead. So, there could arguably have been an 
alternative it couldve put forward to Mr and Mrs S. 
That said, Barclays had already concluded that repaying the shortfall at the rate Mr and 
Mrs S had offered was unaffordable. And I dont think that decision was unfair based on 
what Ive seen. Ive also not seen any evidence that Barclays had been made aware of an 
alternative plan for repaying the money borrowed. Mr and Mrs S have said they have an 
alternative in mind  selling the property and some of the land it sits on at the end of the term 
of the repayment portion of the mortgage. But that appears to be in regard to repaying the 
mortgage reserve facility. And I cant see that was mentioned to Barclays. So, from Barclays 
perspective, extending the term wouldve just been pushing back the same situation to 
happen at a later date  bringing with it additional interest, the requirement on Mr and Mrs S 
to make regular payments, unlike the mortgage current account, and the risks of the value of 
the suggested repayment vehicles  the pensions  decreasing. With that in mind, I think 
Barclays may reasonably have concluded an extension wasnt in fact in Mr and Mrs S best 
interests at the time and that this wouldnt in fact have been a suitable counter proposal. 
And, as Ive said, Mr and Mrs S seem to have already taken the decision to surrender their 
pensions by that point.With that in mind, I think the £250 Barclays has agreed to pay, following the investigators 
opinion, for the upset caused by it not fully considering this, is fair in the circumstances, as 
Im not sure that an alternative would necessarily have been agreed.
Mr and Mrs S say Barclays shouldve suggested that they use the reserve facility to repay 
the interest only borrowing. But I dont agree. 
As Ive said the agreement was that the £140,000 borrowed on an interest only basis would 
be repaid in 2015. If this was paid through the reserve, by incremental transactions, the 
amount would still have been owed to Barclays, after the originally agreed term had expired. 
It would just have transferred to the reserve and been owed on that basis. Mr and Mrs S feel 
this wouldve been better for them. But this wouldve been a way of avoiding the original 
contractual agreement to repay the borrowing until a later date, not fulfilling the agreement. 
And the mortgage terms explain that amounts owed under the mortgage current account, 
including the reserve, are repayable on demand. So, this may not have afforded Mr and 
Mrs S the additional time they think. I acknowledge the way the reserve facility functions, the 
amount available being increased as the mortgage balance is repaid, means what Mr and 
Mrs S have suggested mightve been possible. But I dont think Barclays did anything wrong 
by not recommending this, nor can I reasonably say it should have. 
I also note that, while Barclays didnt recommend this, Mr and Mrs S still had access to the 
reserve facility. They have said that Barclays not telling them they could use the reserve 
facility in this way meant they were being prevented from using it as it was intended  for 
whatever purpose they chose. But they werent prevented from using it, the facility was 
available to them, as it always had been.
Mr and Mrs S have argued that Barclays shouldve been clearer about how the reserve 
facility worked. In a letter Barclays sent to Mr and Mrs S in 2020, it explained The amount 
you can borrow using the Reserve increases as your mortgage balance reduces, through 
your regular monthly payments and any additional payments you make. This feature of your 
mortgage is called 'Rebalancing'. 
From the information that has been provided to me this appears to be the first time that the 
reserve was explained in these specific terms. So, I think Barclays could arguably have done 
a better job of explaining how the facility worked sooner. 
That being said I can see that in 2014, before the interest only portion of the mortgage had 
become due, the amount available under the reserve had already increased to over £99,000, 
having originally been set at just over £30,000 when the mortgage was taken. And Mr and 
Mrs S were already using the majority of that borrowing  so seemed to be aware they had 
access to the facility and increasing amounts under it. 
Taking everything into account, I think Barclays considered Mr and Mrs S plans for repaying 
the mortgage fairly, and I dont think it forced them into taking a specific course of action. I 
also dont think it has done anything wrong by not suggesting they use the reserve facility to 
repay the interest only borrowing. This would effectively have been a way to get around the 
contractual requirement to repay the borrowing. Which I dont think was the intention of the 
facility or something that I can fairly say Barclays needed to suggest. The way the facility 
would automatically increase did I think mean that Barclays couldve thought differently 
about what it could do to help Mr and Mrs S. But in the circumstances, Im not sure that 
anything different wouldve been agreed. So, I think a payment of £250, which Barclays has 
already agreed to, for the upset caused by its handling of the matter is fair in the 
circumstances.  
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr and Mrs S £250.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman