DRN-4233917
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt added its new director, Mr K, to 
the companys business bank account after he acquired control of the limited company. M 
complains HSBC also wont action its request to close the account and transfer the funds to 
its new account with another bank.
What happened
Mr K acquired control of M in July 2022 and he became its sole director. M completed a 
Mandate for Limited Company form and sent it to HSBC in December 2022, requesting 
Mr K to become the sole signatory on Ms business bank account. HSBC received the form 
but couldnt act on Ms instructions because the form was completed incorrectly.
M completed a second form and sent it to HSBC later the same month. At the start of 
January 2023, whilst still waiting for HSBC to action the request to add Mr K to Ms account, 
M complained about the length of time the bank was taking. M also asked HSBC to close its 
account and transfer the balance to a new account (in Ms name) at another bank. M 
complains HSBC hasnt acted on any of its requests.
HSBC reviewed Ms complaint but did not find it had acted inappropriately. M, unhappy at 
HSBCs response, then referred the matter to this service. The Investigator explained that as 
Mr K did not have the required customer relationship with the bank, it wasnt a matter the 
Financial Ombudsman Service can look into. M disagreed. As no agreement could be 
reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
In my provisional decision I explained that:
Ive only included a summary of events above, but Id like to reassure the parties that Ive 
looked at all the available evidence and submissions. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time. 
Before doing so, I must be satisfied the Financial Ombudsman Service can look into the 
matters complained about. The Investigator noted Mr K did not have a customer relationship 
with HSBC. Whilst that may be the case, Mr K is acting as a director of M in bringing this 
complaint and the company is a customer of HSBC  so, I am satisfied this is a matter I can 
consider. 
Having done so, I consider that HSBC dealt with Mr Ks requests appropriately. Im sorry to 
have to disappoint Mr K, but I can see no basis on which I can fairly compel HSBC to add 
him to Ms account or act on his instruction to close it and transfer the balance. I will explain 
why.
HSBC has extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities it must meet when providing
account services to customers. To fulfil these obligations, the bank may need to review
activity taking place on accounts and ask customers for further information. HSBC is entitled
and obliged to carry out such checks. The terms of Ms account also permit HSBC to
review its account and ask its directors/mandated persons for information.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances
for HSBC to make further enquires before acting on Ms request  significant sums are 
involved and so I can understand why the bank wanted to investigate the situation further. 
Im satisfied that in doing so HSBC was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
What HSBC did is in line with what most banks would do in the same situation. 
I can appreciate that this may cause M some inconvenience. But I cant say that HSBC has 
done anything wrong or acted unreasonably in the circumstances. This means I am unable 
to award M any compensation for not being able to access its account since I dont find the 
bank acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did.
Responses
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 3 July 2023.
HSBC acknowledged my provisional findings and it didnt have anything further to add.
M replied and disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, it said that this complaint 
is brought by M and not Mr K; and that HSBC had failed to act on Ms instructions agreed by 
its board, contrary to its legal and regulatory obligations. M wants to know why HSBC is yet 
to update the signatory mandate on its account and what steps it can take to assist bringing 
this about  it provided an email form HSBC confirming the request was still progressing. Its 
complaint is also that the funds held in the account belong to M and no individual 
shareholder, so the money should be returned to M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only included a short summary of Ms response above, but Id like to reassure M that Ive 
considered its detailed response very carefully. Having done so, Im not persuaded to reach 
a different outcome to my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
M has gone into much detail in separating the legal entity of the limited company from that of 
its director, Mr K. As I explained in my provisional decision, M is a customer of HSBC and so 
I am satisfied it is eligible to bring this complaint. I have considered Ms wider points but as 
M has just the one director with significant control over the company, Mr K, I dont find its 
submissions material to the overall outcome of this complaint. And whether I have referred to 
M or its sole director in my provisional decision is equally immaterial.
M suggests I failed to consider its point that M is the owner of the funds held in the account. 
Ive been asked to determine whether HSBC has acted appropriately in handling Ms request 
to add a new signatory to the account, to close the account and transfer the balance  which 
are the matters dealt with by my provisional decision. And I need not consider Ms 
entitlement to the funds to reach an outcome on these matters.
Ive reviewed everything again. Neither M nor HSBC have provided new information for me 
to consider. So, Ive not seen enough for me to alter my provisional conclusions. That is, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances for HSBC to make further enquires 
before acting on Ms requests. Im satisfied that in doing so HSBC is complying with its legal 
and regulatory obligations.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman