DRN-3279961
The complaint
Mr R complains Lloyds Bank PLC gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his final salary 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension. Mr R is represented in this 
complaint, but to keep things simple Ill refer only to Mr R.
What happened
Mr R had a final salary OPS. On Lloyds advice, he transferred this to a personal pension in 
1993.
Soon after, the Regulator established an industry-wide review of particular pension business 
carried out between 1988 and 1994, known as the Pensions Review. Lloyds says it invited 
Mr R to have a Pension Review as part of this. On 22 October 1998 Lloyds wrote to Mr R to 
say it had carried out the review and considered his complaint about its 1993 advice to 
transfer his pension, but it had calculated hed not been caused a financial loss.
In 2021, Mr R complained to Lloyds that its 1993 advice had been unsuitable. In response, 
Lloyds said it had reviewed this in 1998 and no financial loss was identified. And that its 
review calculations were completed in line with the Regulators requirements and it wouldnt 
do a further review for Mr R. 
Mr R said he didnt remember having his pension reviewed or receiving Lloyds outcome 
letter. Lloyds didnt change its position, and provided Mr R with a copy of its 22 October 
1998 letter.
Mr R brought his complaint about the 1993 advice to our Service. He disputed Lloyds carried 
out a pension review in 1998, and said he couldnt have received its outcome letter or 
responded to it, as hed been working and living abroad at that time. To support this, Mr R 
provided letters sent to him in 1997 regarding an offer of employment abroad.
Our Investigator said Lloyds had carried out its 1998 Pension Review for Mr R in line with 
the Regulators guidance at that time. That Lloyds 1998 review essentially accepted its 1993 
advice wasnt suitable, but found this hadnt caused Mr R any financial loss. And that hed 
not seen any overt error in Lloyds calculations. Our Investigator said the Regulator intended 
the Pension Review to be a one-off exercise, so Lloyds wasnt required to look at things 
again for Mr R.  
Mr R disagreed, saying that working and living abroad in 1998 meant he couldnt have 
received or responded to Lloyds 1998 Pension Review, so he shouldnt be penalised for 
something carried out and concluded without his knowledge. But our Investigator didnt 
change his mind. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R complains Lloyds 1993 advice was unsuitable. But theres no need for me to consider 
this since the Pension Review outcome letter Lloyds sent to Mr R in October 1998 shows 
that Lloyds essentially accepted the advice it gave Mr R was unsuitable - because its 
Pension Review looked at whether this advice caused him a financial loss. And the outcome 
letter said it concluded Mr R hadnt been caused a financial loss. 
I know Mr R disputes that Lloyds carried out a review in 1998. I understand he says he has 
no memory of this and was working and living abroad at that time. But 1998 was very many 
years ago and memories can fade with time. And while Mr R has provided letters he 
received in 1997 regarding an offer of employment abroad, hes not provided anything to 
show he accepted the offer and then lived abroad. 
I think Lloyds would only have carried out a Pension Review for Mr R in 1998 if he had 
asked it to. I say that because the Regulator told firms like Lloyds how they should word the 
Pension Review invitation letters they sent to customers, and this wording meant Mr R 
needed to respond to Lloyds invitation if he wanted a Pension Review. It wouldnt have 
carried out the review unless Mr R had responded. The Regulator also monitored firms 
conduct of the review.
 
In addition, I think its more likely than not that Mr R was in contact with Lloyds in around 
1998 regarding its Pension Review and its 1993 advice. I say that because Lloyds October 
1998 outcome letter says As you know, we have been reviewing your case as part of the 
Review of Personal Pension Plans and goes on to say We have also considered your 
complaint about the advice you were given to transfer.
The October 1998 Pension Review outcome letter includes an explanation of what 
information Lloyds based its review on. I cant see that any of this information is obviously 
incorrect, and Mr R hasnt provided any evidence to show why he may think Lloyds 
calculations are incorrect. Its also the case that Pension Review calculations were subject to 
supervision and sampling at the time by the Regulator. Taking everything into account, I 
think its more likely than not that Lloyds hasnt made an error here.
Its important to note that under the industry wide Pensions Review established by the 
Regulator, businesses were only required to conduct the review once, using the standards 
and assumptions the Regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the 
assumptions or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the 
future loss. The Regulator intended that the review would draw a line under any pension 
mis-selling and would put things right at the time. Once a business carried out a Pension 
Review for a customer, they werent required to review it again.
For these reasons, Im not asking Lloyds to do anything further here, though I realise this 
isnt the answer Mr R hoped for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman