DRN-4119173
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the advice given by Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) to 
transfer the benefits from her two defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes, 
along with a defined contribution (DC) and an Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) plan 
to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). She says the advice was unsuitable for her and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision saying that I intended to uphold Mrs Gs complaint and 
award compensation. A copy of the background to the complaint, and my provisional 
findings, are below in italics and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What happened
Mrs G met with Quilter in March 2018 to discuss her pension and retirement needs.
Quilter completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Gs circumstances and 
objectives. Amongst other things this recorded that Mrs G was not married but she was living 
with her partner; she wasnt working; she and her partner owned their own home; and their 
household income of around £1,450 a month met their household expenditure of around 
£1,370 a month. Quilter also carried out an assessment of Mrs Gs attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be balanced.
On 20 August 2018, Quilter advised Mrs G to transfer her pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds in an investment fund, which it deemed matched Mrs Gs attitude to risk. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were to enable Mrs G to gain 
greater flexibility and control over her pension  to allow her to take a tax-free cash lump 
sum to repay her mortgage and to increase the death benefits both prior to and after 
retirement.
Mrs G duly accepted the recommendation and her pension benefits  both DB scheme 
benefits plus her DC pension and AVC plans - were transferred to her new SIPP.
In 2021, using the services of a representative, Mrs G complained to Quilter about the 
suitability of the transfer advice  she believes the advice was wrong and it has resulted in a 
financial loss.
Quilter didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. In summary it said the advice given to Mrs G was 
suitable and she was provided with sufficient clear information to be able to make an 
informed decision. It said the advice met Mrs Gs objective of being able to access her tax- 
free cash to be able to give up work full-time and to potentially leave a significant lump sum 
to her children in the event of her premature death.
Mrs G then referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint, in 
part and required Quilter to pay compensation. In summary they said they didnt think the 
transfer was suitable from a financial viability point of view because the critical yields 
required to match Mrs Gs DB scheme benefits meant she was likely to receive benefits of a 
substantially lower overall value at retirement as a result of investing in line with a balanced 
attitude to risk. But they said they didnt think Mrs G was a balanced risk investor  her 
attitude to risk ought to have been lower given her circumstances.
The investigator went on to explain that despite the above, in their view, it was in Mrs Gs 
best interests to gain access to funds to ease the pressure on her. They said Mrs G had little 
income of her own and she had financial dependants, so her capacity for work was low. But 
they said it wasnt in Mrs Gs best interests to transfer both her DB schemes. They said she 
couldve met her objectives by only transferring just one of her DB schemes  the lower of 
the transfer values. They said Mrs G couldve repaid half the mortgage and by leaving the 
other DB scheme intact, she had important guaranteed income payable less than four years 
later at age 60. So they recommended Quilter pay Mrs G compensation.
Quilter disagreed. In summary it said that Mrs Gs schemes normal retirement age was 65 
not 60 as the investigator concluded. They said to wait nine years for her benefits wouldnt 
have been a viable option for Mrs G. They said they believed the advisors assessment of 
Mrs Gs risk tolerance was correct  she intended to invest over the longer term and was 
seeking capital growth. They said by retaining the DB scheme with the larger transfer value, 
Mrs G wouldnt have met her objective of wanting to pass on her benefits to her children 
upon her death. They said it was not Mrs Gs intention to repay half her mortgage  she 
wanted to be debt free even if the investigator concluded it wasnt necessary. Overall they 
said transferring just one of Mrs Gs DB schemes would not have met her needs at the time.
The investigator acknowledged their mistake about the normal retirement age of Mrs Gs DB 
scheme, but they werent persuaded to change their opinion - so the complaint was referred 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, I intend to uphold the complaint 
in full. Ill explain why.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Quilter 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mrs Gs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in his best interests.
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mrs G was 56 at the time of the advice. And while on the fact-find document it recorded Mrs 
Gs target retirement age of 60, the most up to date analysis produced by Quilter was based 
on Mrs Gs schemes normal retirement age of 65. The critical yields, or growth rate required 
to match Mrs Gs schemes benefits at age 65 if she transferred to a personal pension 
arrangement were as follows:
For the DB scheme with the higher transfer value - 5.46% if she took a full pension 
and 5.53% if she took a tax-free cash lump sum and a reduced pension
For the lower transfer value scheme - 9.91% and 7.64% respectively.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.5% per year for eight years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs 
Gs assessed balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there 
would be little point in Mrs G giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB 
schemes only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
But here, given the lowest critical yield was 5.46%, I think Mrs G was likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB schemes at retirement, as a result 
of investing in line with a balanced attitude to risk. The returns needed were in excess of 
the discount rate and in all cases in excess of the regulators middle projection rate. The 
highest rate of 9.91% was far in excess of the regulators upper projection rate and more 
than two and a half times the discount rate. And these were the returns required to match 
Mrs Gs DB scheme benefits  so effectively the returns required just to stand still. To 
improve on the benefits available would require higher returns, which in my view, would require Mrs G to take a greater level of risk than she was prepared to take.
And on the subject of attitude to risk - Quilter assessed Mrs Gs attitude to risk as balanced. 
It has argued that Mrs G was seeking capital growth over the longer term, so this was an 
appropriate assessment of her risk tolerance. But Im not persuaded that it was. I say this 
because looking at the attitude to risk questionnaire Quilter completed as part of its 
assessment, Mrs Gs answers to some of the key statements, in my view, clearly showed 
that Mrs Gs risk tolerance was lower. And I think Quilter ought reasonably to have placed 
greater weight on these. For example, the first statement Mrs G said Yes to was: People 
who know me would describe me as a cautious person. I think the use of the word cautious 
here is important and in my view this alone ought to have given Quilter an immediate 
indication of Mrs Gs risk tolerance. But in addition to this, Mrs G also indicated that she 
generally looked for safer investments even if that meant lower returns; she didnt find 
investments easy to understand; she didnt have much experience investing; and she tended 
to be anxious about the investment decisions shed made. So taking all of these key 
answers together, I think it reasonably describes someone who was prepared to take a low, 
or cautious attitude to risk. And I think this ought reasonably to have been the conclusion 
Quilter reached.
In addition to this, I think Mrs Gs capacity for loss was low. Her DB pensions accounted for 
her entire private pension provision and theres no evidence that Mrs G had any other 
significant assets she could draw on to provide or supplement her income in retirement. So I 
dont think she had the capacity to absorb losses on the pension transfer.
For this reason alone a transfer out of Mrs Gs DB schemes was not in her best interests. 
But I recognise that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice 
 there might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. And this is something Quilter acknowledged in its suitability letter 
where it said that it wouldnt ordinarily recommend a transfer because it didnt think the 
returns required were achievable but felt Mrs Gs other objectives outweighed this. So Ive 
considered these below.
Flexibility - access to tax-free cash and income need
It seems to me that the key reason for Quilter recommending that Mrs G transfer out of her 
DB pensions, despite its conclusion that the required returns to match her DB scheme 
benefits were likely unachievable, was to have the flexibility to access a tax-free cash lump 
sum to allow her to repay her debts. Its recorded that this would enable Mrs G to reduce her 
monthly outgoings so she could either retire or work part-time  albeit she was undecided 
which.
But Im not persuaded that it was necessary in the circumstances for Mrs G to repay her 
mortgage and other debts at this time  so I dont think transferring out of her DB pension 
schemes to provide flexibility to access a lump sum to facilitate this was a compelling reason 
to transfer or in her best interest. Ill explain why.
It's clear that Mrs G was not working at the time. I understand shed been made redundant 
around 2017 and had relatively recently moved home and relocated to the countryside. 
While Mrs G was only in receipt of benefits at the time, she lived with her partner who was 
working full-time. And looking at whats recorded in the fact-find Quilter completed with Mrs 
G in their meeting of March 2018, the income and expenditure analysis section shows that 
Mrs Gs partners income covered their household expenditure and there was a surplus 
income of around £80 a month. The expenditure recorded appears to include Mrs Gs mortgage payment of around £600 a month as well as her credit card monthly payment of 
around £125. It appears to cover other essential expenditure and I note there was also an 
amount entered under the heading lifestyle.
So there is nothing here to indicate that Mrs G and her partner could not afford and werent 
able to meet both their household / living expenses and debt obligations. There is no 
evidence to suggest the mortgage was in arrears or in my view any evidence to show that 
Mrs G was under, or likely to shortly come under, significant financial pressure such that she 
needed to reduce her monthly outgoings. In my view theres no evidence to show that there 
was a pressing need for Mrs G to repay her mortgage.
Furthermore Quilter recorded that Mrs Gs mortgage interest rate was just over 2%, so not a 
high rate. Its also the case that Mrs Gs partner was more than 10 years younger than her, 
so his capacity for work and his ability to earn to maintain the mortgage repayments until the 
end of its term was in my view high.
So taking all of this into account, Im not persuaded that Mrs G needed or that it was 
essential for her to repay her mortgage at this time. So it follows that I dont think she 
needed to transfer her pensions and access a lump sum to do so.
But I can see that Quilters recommendation letter of 20 August 2018, and also a file note 
recorded by the adviser at the time, suggest there was more to the story. These say that Mrs 
Gs partners earnings covered the essentials, but in order to make giving up work a reality, 
she needed to reduce her outgoings. It said that by repaying her mortgage, this would 
reduce Mrs Gs household outgoings by around £740 a month, which in turn meant that she 
would only need a small amount of income  £377 a month net  which could be achieved 
through part-time work or a low level of income (presumably drawing from her pension fund.) 
It said Mrs G was undecided on what she wanted to do  she liked the flexibility but did not 
need the income immediately.
Quilter did not explain in its advice paperwork, and it wasnt immediately apparent to me, 
how it arrived at the conclusion that Mrs Gs income need was £377 a month once the 
mortgage was repaid. As I said above, the income and expenditure analysis Quilter 
undertook showed that there was a monthly income surplus even with the mortgage 
payment included. But I think the figure of £377 a month Quilter arrived at is based on a 
50/50 split of Mrs Gs household monthly expenditure once the mortgage cost is removed.
So in my view this appears to be a notional income need  it was not a true income need 
because Mrs G had a greater level of expenditure than was recorded on the income and 
expenditure analysis for example. It seems to me this was a desired position where both Mrs 
G and her partner equally contributed to their household expenses. I think this explains why 
Mrs G said she didnt need the income immediately  there was no immediate financial 
pressure here.
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mrs Gs partner wasnt prepared to continue to meet a 
greater share of the household costs as he was currently doing. But if I accept that Mrs G 
wanted to contribute, even if Mrs G retained her mortgage, her share of the total household 
budget was around £680 a month.
And while I can see from the file note I referred to earlier that Mrs G didnt anticipate being 
able to earn the same salary she earned prior to her move, it doesnt appear that she 
needed to. It seems that at most, and assuming an equal 50/50 share of their expenditure 
with her partner, she would need an income of £680 a month, which I think could reasonably 
be achieved through part-time work. Mrs G indicated that she was prepared to work part- 
time and she appears to have been in good health to allow her to do so. So I think this was a viable option.
Im also mindful here that through immediate early retirement from her DB schemes, the 
level of income Quilter indicated she could receive from these was around £10,800 a year 
combined. And this was on the basis of reduced pensions and Mrs G also receiving around 
£73,000 tax-free cash from both schemes. In my view this wouldve provided more income 
than Mrs G likely needed at this time. That said, Im not persuaded that Mrs G wouldve 
more likely than not taken her DB scheme benefits this way at this stage  I think its clear 
that Mrs G was undecided as to what she wanted to do - whether to retire or to work part- 
time  at this stage. And based on what Ive seen, there was no urgency for Mrs G to make 
any decision about things. Nevertheless, in my view, Mrs Gs desire to retire early was 
achievable by remaining in her DB schemes - it was a viable consideration for the future.
I can see that the investigator concluded that Mrs G wasnt in a position to work and earn an 
income at the time of the advice because she had financial dependants she was caring for at 
the time. Mrs Gs representative has also indicated this was the case. But the evidence from 
the time of the advice does not support this  the fact-find records that Mrs G had no 
financial dependants and as Ive explained above, there was clearly a discussion about Mrs 
G working part-time. Its possible she was caring for them at this time  but theres nothing to 
indicate that at this time it prevented her from working. But it is clear that Mrs G did have 
financial dependants later on in 2019, which meant she had to care for them full- time and so 
wasnt able to work. Ill refer to this later on.
Turning to Mrs Gs retirement income need  I can see that Quilter recorded Mrs G needed 
£15,000 a year once the mortgage was repaid. If Mrs G took her DB scheme income from 
both schemes they would provide an income of around £11,000 each, or a reduced pension 
of around £9,400 and £8,000 respectively with tax-free cash amounts of around £63,000 and 
£53,000 respectively. So Im satisfied Mrs G couldve met her income needs in retirement 
through her DB schemes.
Overall, I dont think Mrs G required flexibility from her pension. Based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think she had a genuine need to access her tax-free cash earlier than the schemes 
normal retirement age to repay her mortgage and leave the remaining funds invested until 
later on. As I said above, Mrs G does not appear to have been under any financial pressure: 
her partner was meeting their expenditure needs including their mortgage, and theres 
nothing to suggest this wouldnt or couldnt continue. In my view, Mrs Gs assessed income 
need was a notional one, which was reasonably achievable through part-time work, which 
Mrs G indicated she was willing to do. If that didnt work out, she had the viable option later 
on, if necessary of taking early retirement from her DB schemes. I dont think Mrs G needed 
to make an irreversible decision to transfer her pension at this stage to facilitate the 
repayment of her mortgage when there doesnt appear to have been an immediate or 
compelling need to do so. For these reasons I dont think it was in Mrs Gs best interests to 
transfer out of her DB pension schemes.
Death benefits
The other reason why Quilter recommended Mrs G transfer her pension was to enable her to 
leave her pension to her family, including her non-dependent children. Mrs G wasnt married, 
so she didnt want her pension to die with her.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mrs G given the 
circumstances. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs G 
might have thought it was a good idea to transfer her DB scheme benefits to a personal pension arrangement because of this, the priority here was to advise Mrs G about what was 
best for her retirement provisions.
A pension is primarily designed to provide an income in retirement  not as a legacy 
planning tool. So I dont think the potential for different or greater death benefits should have 
been prioritised over this and Mrs Gs security in retirement. And I say potential, because the 
sum left on Mrs Gs death was dependent on investment returns  so if she lived a long life, 
and/or investment returns were lower than expected, there may not have been a large sum 
to pass on anyway.
Im mindful too that while Mrs G was not married to her partner at the time, there was the 
potential that she might get married in the future. In which case the spouses pension 
provided by both DB schemes wouldve been useful to her spouse. This was guaranteed 
and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was.
Overall, and in any event, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to 
a personal pension arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs G.
Suitability of investments
Quilter recommended that Mrs G invest in a balanced risk fund, which I consider was 
unsuitable based on what I think Mrs Gs true attitude to risk was. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mrs G, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mrs G should have been advised to remain in the DB schemes and so the 
investments in the unsuitable balanced risk fund wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had 
been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, access to a cash lump sum and the potential for higher or 
different death benefits on offer through a personal pension arrangement would have 
sounded like attractive features to Mrs G. But Quilter wasnt there to just transact what Mrs 
G might have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mrs G 
needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs G was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs G was very likely to obtain 
lower overall retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. In my view Mrs G should not have been 
advised to transfer out of both schemes to access a lump sum to repay her debts, which for 
the reasons Ive given above, were affordable both now and likely into the future. Any 
income need Mrs G had couldve likely been met through part-time work or ultimately early 
retirement from her DB scheme  neither of which required Mr G to repay her mortgage at 
this time. Also, I dont think the potential for higher death benefits was worth giving up the 
guarantees associated with her DB schemes.
So, I think Quilter shouldve advised Mrs G to remain in her DB schemes as well as her DC 
and AVC plans.
Of course, I have to consider whether, if things had happened as they should have, Mrs G 
would've gone ahead anyway against Quilters advice.Ive considered this carefully - but Im not persuaded that Mrs G wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB schemes, against Quilters advice. I say this because Mrs G was 
an inexperienced investor, who in my view possessed neither the requisite knowledge, skill 
nor confidence to go against the advice they were given. As I explained above, I think Mrs G 
was a cautious investor and its clear that these two pensions (plus the smaller DC 
elements) accounted for all of Mrs Gs private retirement provision.
So, if Quilter had provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the DB schemes, 
explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she wouldve accepted that advice. Im 
not persuaded that Mrs Gs concerns about her death benefits were so great that she 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise she 
had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for her or in her best interests. 
If Quilter had explained that Mrs G could meet her primary objectives without risking her 
guaranteed pensions, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mrs G 
wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB schemes.
In light of the above, I think Quilter should compensate Mrs G for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mrs G as far as possible in the position she would be in 
now if Quilter had given her suitable advice. I think Mrs G wouldve remained in both DB 
scheme. And in terms of the defined contribution and AVC plans, I think with suitable advice 
Mrs G wouldve likely undertaken an internal fund switch in line with a low or cautious 
attitude to risk.
What should Quilter do?
To compensate Mrs G fairly, Quilter must determine the combined fair value of her 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual value 
is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation
fair value  step one
If Mrs G had been given suitable advice, I think she wouldve remained in both DB schemes. 
Quilter must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mrs G lost as a result of transferring 
out of her DB schemes in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant 
pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the 
regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
For clarity, I understand that Mrs G started to take an income from her pension in August 
2020 (aged 58) as a result of her caring for her financial dependants full-time. 
This meant that she was unable to work or be available for work. Given this is what actually 
happened, I think it is fair that the calculation should be based on Mrs G taking benefits at 
this age.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of any subsequent final decision and 
using the most recent financial assumptions in line with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Gs acceptance of that decision.
fair value  step two
Quilter must use the benchmark shown below to determine the fair value of Mrs Gs DC 
plans if suitable advice had been given.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Value of (the 
defined 
contribution 
plans 
transferred)Still existsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 90 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Quilter should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out 
of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number 
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Quilter totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Quilter should:
always calculate and offer Mrs G redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs G before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment their 
Defined Contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs G receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs G accepts Quilters offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs G for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Gs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs G as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Quilter may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mrs Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20% 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The tax rate assumption is not an actual payment of tax to HMRC but an adjustment to 
ensure that Mrs G receives fair compensation. If Mrs G or Quilter disputes the tax rate 
assumption they should let us know in response to this Provisional decision. It wont be 
possible to change this assumption after any final decision is issued on the complaint.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mrs G within 90 days of the date 
Quilter receives notification of her acceptance of any subsequent final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that 
it takes Quilter to pay Mrs G.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs G wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs G into that position. It does not mean 
that she would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs G could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate.
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed 
£160,000, I may recommend that Quilter pays the balance.
My provisional decision
Determination and money award: I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Quilter 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mrs G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd to pay Mrs G any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Quilter 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mrs G any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd pays Mrs G the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs G.
If Mrs G accepts any subsequent final decision, the money award becomes binding on 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs G can accept any 
final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Mrs G accepted my provisional decision and she said she had nothing further to add.
Quilter replied and said that it had received my provisional decision and it was aware of the 
deadline for responses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Quilter said it received my provisional decision and it was aware of the 
deadline for responses. Because that deadline has now passed, I think its reasonable to 
assume that if Quilter had wanted to respond to my provisional decision, it wouldve done so 
by now.
Because Ive not been given anything new to consider, I see no reason to change my mind. 
So Ive reached the same overall conclusion and for the same reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision  I uphold this complaint and direct Quilter to put things right.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mrs G as far as possible in the position she would be in 
now if Quilter had given her suitable advice. I think Mrs G wouldve remained in both DB 
schemes. 
And in terms of the defined contribution and AVC plans, I think with suitable advice Mrs G wouldve likely undertaken an internal fund switch in line with a low or cautious attitude to 
risk.
What should Quilter do?
To compensate Mrs G fairly, Quilter must determine the combined fair value of her 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual value 
is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation
fair value  step one
If Mrs G had been given suitable advice, I think she wouldve remained in both DB schemes. 
Quilter must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mrs G lost as a result of transferring 
out of her DB schemes in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant 
pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the 
regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
For clarity, I understand that Mrs G started to take an income from her pension in August 
2020 (aged 58) as a result of her caring for her financial dependants full-time. This meant 
that she was unable to work or be available for work. Given this is what actually happened, I 
think it is fair that the calculation should be based on Mrs G taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mrs Gs acceptance of the decision.
fair value  step two
Quilter must use the benchmark shown below to determine the fair value of Mrs Gs DC 
plans if suitable advice had been given.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interestValue of (the 
defined 
contribution 
plans 
transferred)Still existsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 90 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Quilter should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out 
of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number 
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Quilter totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Quilter should:
always calculate and offer Mrs G redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to CONSUMER before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs G receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs G accepts Quilters offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs G for the 
calculation, even if he/she/they ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Gs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs G as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Quilter may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mrs Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20% 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs G wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs G into that position. It does not mean 
that she would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs G could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate.
Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed 
£160,000, I may recommend that Quilter pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mrs G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd pays Mrs G the balance.
If Mrs G accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Quilter Financial 
Services Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs G can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman