DRN-3474851
The complaint
Miss M complains about Millennium Insurance Company Limiteds (Millennium) handling of a 
claim made under her home insurance.
 
What happened
In September 2016, there was an escape of water in Miss Ms home. This caused significant 
damage. Miss M previously asked this service to consider two complaints to about 
Millenniums handling of the claims. Both complaints have been the subject of a final 
decision by an ombudsman. 
In August 2017 an ombudsman colleague issued a final decision. He considered 
Millenniums handling of the claim and recommended it pay Miss M £750 for the trouble and 
upset caused as a result of its handling of the claim up to the end of June 2017. 
Miss M referred a second complaint to this service which focused on how Millennium settled 
the claim. This was the subject of a second final decision, issued in August 2019, which said 
Millennium needed to:
- Pay a cash settlement for the repairs, including simple interest.
- Reconsider the outstanding parts of the claim for the cost or replacing or repairing 
damaged or destroyed contents.
- Pay outstanding alternative accommodation costs on production of invoices and 
consider payment of those costs during the repairs  simple interest should be 
payable on any payment made.
- Pay any heating/drying costs on production of bills/invoices and consider payment of 
any further such costs  simple interest should be payable on any payment made.
- Pay the surveyors fee and add simple interest.
- Pay £550 compensation for the distress and inconvenience experienced.
Miss M referred a third complaint to this service. She said she wasnt happy with 
Millenniums reconsideration of the alternative accommodation or contents part of the claim. 
She said some of the issues the ombudsman directed Millennium to reconsider hadnt been 
reconsidered. 
The new complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She said Millennium needed 
to recalculate the costs paid to Miss M in respect for the alternative accommodation for the 
repairs and also pay interest on an invoice for a hotel bill. Miss M thought Millennium needed 
to do more than the investigator recommended, so this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been extensive submissions provided by both sides. And while Ive carefully 
considered these, my decision here focuses on those issues I consider most relevant to the 
dispute. This isnt intended as a discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of this service. 
How the buildings and contents claim have been settled
A key part of the complaints Miss M brought to us is how the buildings and contents claims 
have been settled by Millennium. In the final decision issued in August 2019, my 
ombudsman colleague set out how Millennium needed to settle these claims. Miss M 
accepted the ombudsmans final decision, making it legally binding on both sides. 
This service isnt free to consider every complaint brought to us. The Dispute
Resolution rules (known as DISP) in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook
(available on their website) set out the rules on which complaints we can consider.
DISP 2.3.1R explains that an Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the compulsory
jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by a firm carrying on one or more of the activities
listed in DISP 2.3.1R. A number of activities are listed under DISP 2.3.1R including 
regulated activities. Parts of the dispute Miss M asked this service to consider is whether 
Millennium has acted in line with the final decision issued in August 2019 in terms of how it 
settled her buildings and contents claims. 
However, implementing and complying with a final decision is not a regulated activity nor 
any other sort of activity under DISP 2.3.1R. Ive also considered if the activity of 
implementing and complying with a final decision could fall under any of the other provisions 
in DISP 2.3R. Having done so, Im not satisfied that this is an activity covered under any of 
the other provisions in DISP 2.3R. Ill set out in the various sections where I think Miss M has 
asked us to decide if Millennium complied with the final decision issued in August 2019.
Ive considered Miss Ms comments about the cooker, which she says she hasnt been paid 
for. Millennium has shown the cooker was included in the schedule of works provided to the 
ombudsman when he directed it to pay a cash settlement for the buildings claim as part of 
the 2019 final decision. I cant consider this point further.
I also cant consider Miss Ms complaint about interest not being awarded on the contents 
claim. This is because the payment for the contents claim formed part of the final decision 
issued in August 2019 (although I note an interest payment wasnt a requirement of the 
ombudsmans final decision). The only direction the ombudsman made was for Millennium to 
reconsider items that Miss M thought were undervalued and any items it had not made an 
offer for. As a result, I can only decide if I think Millenniums reconsideration of these issues 
is fair and reasonable  but not the original amount, or whether interest should have been 
awarded. 
Ive considered Miss Ms comments about what she considers to be the outstanding 
payment owed to her for the iPad, lounge ceiling light and carpets. Ive seen the iPad and 
celling light mentioned on the spreadsheet of items that formed part of the payment for the 
contents claim. I note the ceiling light isnt defined by room; but I think its more likely than 
not that one of these ceiling lights was for the lounge. On this basis, Im persuaded that the 
iPad and lounge ceiling light were included in the original payment to settle the contents 
claim. 
I can also consider the new complaint Miss M made about the carpets. In August 2019 the 
ombudsman required Millennium to reconsider the cost of damaged or destroyed contents. I 
can see an additional payment of £2,720 was made for the carpet in December 2019. 
Millennium says this took the full payment in respect of the carpets to £5,200. Miss M hasnt 
provided any evidence to show this payment was inadequate, but I think shes been 
provided with many opportunities to do so. On balance, Im satisfied this payment is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Im not going to require Millennium to increase the payment it made in respect of the carpets or undertake any further reconsiderations for any 
damaged or destroyed contents. 
Outstanding bills and invoices
Ill turn now to the bills Miss M says are outstanding. Miss M has referenced bills for her 
house alarm, electrics, invoices for cleaning and clearing the property, along with a loss 
adjuster invoice, and a fee shes requested for project management.   
Ill turn first to the bills for the alarm and electrics. For the alarm, Miss M had been paid £54, 
but says in February 2020 she had to have a new system installed, costing £912. Ive 
considered the invoice which states the alarm needed to be replaced as a result of flood 
damage. However, there isnt any information provided which sets out how an escape of 
water from 2016 is the cause of the flood damage. I havent been provided with sufficient 
information to persuade me that the alarm system needed to be replaced as a result of the 
escape of water in 2016. Im not going to require Millennium to pay this invoice. 
With regards to the electrics, Miss M says shes owed £2,145 but has only been paid £700. I 
havent seen any evidence to show why theres such a significant increase between the 
amount quoted in the surveyors report and the amount Miss M says she paid. I havent seen 
anything in the invoice provided to evidence why this amount increased. Im satisfied Miss M 
has been provided with many opportunities to do so. Given the time thats passed between 
the escape of water and the quote for the electric works, I cant say with any certainty the 
escape of water is responsible for the increase. It follows, I dont think its unfair Millennium 
hasnt paid all of this increased amount. Based on the information available to me, Im not 
going to require Millennium to increase what has been paid so far
Ill turn now to the remaining invoices Miss M says are outstanding. These are for the drying 
of the property cleaning and clearing waste. I consider these invoices come under the 
heading other invoices in the ombudsmans final decision from August 2019, and therefore 
have already been considered by an ombudsman at this service. As Ive outlined above 
implementing and complying with a final decision is not a regulated activity nor any other 
sort of activity under DISP 2.3.1R It follows, Im not going to consider these invoices any 
further. This is also the case for Miss Ms request for a project management contribution  
this was considered by the ombudsman in his August 2019 final decision, so I wont be 
offering any further comment on this issue. 
With regards to Miss Ms request for Millennium to pay her Loss Assessor bill, Ive 
considered whether this is covered by the policy. Having considered the policy terms, I cant 
see the policy requires Millennium to provide this to Miss M. As there isnt a requirement for 
Millennium to provide a Loss Assessor, Ive considered whether I think it was fair for it to 
decline to pay the bill. And I think it was. I havent seen anything which suggests the repairs 
were so complex the appointment of a Loss Assessor was necessary. Im not going to 
require Millennium to make a payment in respect of this as Miss M requests.  
Alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance
Its clear this issue is a significant concern for Miss M. In considering her comments Ive 
started by reviewing what the policy said on this matter:
additional cost of alternative accommodation substantially the same as your existing 
accommodation, which you have to pay for
Miss M says the figure paid out for the timeframe of October 2016 to May 2017 wasnt 
sufficient, and also says the period from early September until mid-October 2016 is missing. Miss M has also complained Millennium has not paid interest on a hotel invoice from May 
2017. But, like some of Miss Ms other complaint points, I dont think I can consider these 
specific concerns. 
This is because the issue of alternative accommodation was considered in the final decision 
issued in August 2019. The ombudsmans final decision required Millennium to reimburse 
Miss M for costs incurred so far and pay interest. As Ive said whether a business is 
implementing and complying with a final decision isnt something I can consider. If Miss M 
considers Millennium hasnt paid something it was directed to by the ombudsman (like the 
interest on the hotel invoice from May 2017), then she will need to seek her own advice 
about what her options are. All Im able to decide is whether I consider Millennium has paid 
reasonable costs towards Miss Ms alternative accommodation costs incurred after my 
ombudsman colleagues final decision in August 2019. 
Miss M has asked Millennium to pay an invoice she provided to cover what she said were 
her accommodation costs between 2017 and 2019 when she stayed with family and friends. 
Millennium has declined to do so, saying Miss M has not demonstrated that she experienced 
a financial loss. Having reviewed the invoice provided, Im satisfied Millenniums response 
here is fair, because Miss M has not demonstrated that she incurred a financial loss. The 
invoice provided is not an official document. While I can understand Miss M may have 
wanted to make a payment in respect of staying with her family and friends, Im not 
persuaded Miss M has demonstrated this was a cost she had to pay for, as required by the 
policy terms.  
Ill turn now to the point Miss M raised about the alternative accommodation costs she was 
paid when the repairs began. Millennium paid Miss M £5,500 and said in calculating this 
cost, it was based on a rental cost of £700 - £800 for an apartment, along with a disturbance 
allowance of £2,000. So, in deciding if this payment is fair, Ive again considered the policy 
terms.
An apartment is not substantially the same as Miss Ms property, so I dont consider 
Millennium acted in line with the terms of the policy in calculating this payment. To put things 
right, Millennium should recalculate this cost, for the same duration as it originally offered, 
but on the basis of a property that is a like-for-like basis, based on Miss Ms existing 
property. Millennium should also add simple interest at 8% per annum on this figure and 
provide Miss M with a breakdown so she can see how the new payment has been 
calculated. 
Ill turn now to Miss Ms comments about disturbance allowance, which she refers to as 
subsistence. Shes complained Millennium declined to make a payment for disturbance 
allowance between May 2017 and December 2019. During this time Miss M stayed with 
friends and family. Ive considered the invoice she shared with Millennium and her request 
for a disturbance allowance. 
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator on this point and for 
the same reasons. Had the original escape of water not occurred, Miss M would still have 
had to pay for food and bills. Id generally only expect an insurer to make a disturbance 
allowance payment if a customer had shown theyd incurred reasonable additional costs. But 
Miss M hasnt demonstrated she incurred additional costs. Im not persuaded the invoice 
provided evidences she incurred a financial loss, or accurately reflects the actual costs 
incurred. I havent seen anything that formally required Miss M to contribute to her family and 
friends in the way she has suggested she did. And its not the case Miss M is entitled to a 
daily payment solely for being out of her home. Im not going to require Millennium to pay 
over and above the amount already paid in respect of disturbance allowance. Overall handling of the claim
I acknowledge Miss M remains unhappy with Millenniums handling of this claim. Shes 
stated there have been delays throughout. Im aware my ombudsman colleagues have 
previously awarded compensation in recognition of this. That being said, for the timeframe I 
can consider (from after my colleagues final decision until our investigator issued her 
opinion in December 2021) I havent seen any evidence of Millennium unavoidably delaying 
settling this claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right Millennium Insurance Company Limited should:
recalculate the alternative accommodation cost for when the repairs were carried out. 
This should be for the same duration as it originally offered, but on the basis of a 
property that is a like-for-like basis, based on Miss Ms existing property
Millennium should add simple interest at 8% per annum from date of repairs until the 
date of settlement*.
* If Millennium Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Miss M how much its 
taken off. If requested, Millennium should also provide Miss M with a certificate showing the 
amount deducted, so she can reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman