DRN-3369833
The complaint
Mr A complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) trading as Alphera 
Financial Services, provided him with an inaccurate early settlement quotation. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigators view. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive no reason to think that the settlement calculation carried out by BMWFS is incorrect. I 
think its fair to suggest this fairly complex calculation will be automated and audited to 
ensure its accurate. Im not persuaded that Mr As alternative calculation is correct as he 
hasnt taken the interest payable into account; hes only considered the amount of credit. 
The total amount payable under the agreement was £27,204.96. At the point the settlement 
quotation was provided Mr A had paid a deposit of £1,062.96 and five monthly
payments totalling £2,178.50. This meant there was a remaining balance payable of
£23,963.50. BMWFS calculated an interest rebate of £3,474.70 which was what Mr A 
wouldve paid had the agreement run its full length but was entitled to receive as a rebate 
calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 
2004.
Ive looked at the hire purchase agreement. This states at the top that it is regulated by The 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The Consumer Credit Act covers several areas of consumer credit including the content and 
form of credit agreements and the procedures relating to default, termination, and early 
settlement. In relation to early settlement the Consumer Credit Act says that settlement 
figures should be calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004. It says that the settlement date becomes 28 days after receipt 
of the settlement request and it goes on to allow the creditor, if the loan is for more than one 
year, to defer the settlement date by 30 days. So that explains the 58-day charges BMWFS 
have applied. 
These terms arent explicitly referred to in the credit agreement and I understand Mr As 
concern. But theres a balance to be struck between defining and explaining each and every 
term of a contract and keeping a contract to a reasonable length. The Pre-Contract Credit 
Information document that Mr A signed, said, 
You can repay the credit early in full or in part at any time by giving us notice. Please see 
under Early Repayment in the agreement. If you make a full or partial early repayment we 
will be entitled to charge you interest in accordance with consumer credit legislation. 
I dont therefore think there is evidence BMWFS have done anything wrong here. Theyve 
applied the correct legislation and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman