DRN-2608656
The complaint
Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in a meeting in 2003. The policy was taken out 
at the same time as Mr S applied for a credit card. It gave him accident, sickness and 
unemployment protection.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ss credit card application form shows he ticked a box indicating that he wanted PPI. And 
there was nothing on the form that could reasonably have led him to believe it was 
mandatory. And Mr S accepts he agreed to take the policy  explaining he did so as it was 
recommended. So, I think Barclays made it clear to Mr S that PPI was optional, and he 
chose to take it. 
As Mr S says, Barclays recommended the PPI to him. This means it had to check if it was 
suitable for him. Mr S says he didnt need it but based on what I know of his circumstances 
at the time I think it was right for him. Mr S told us he was entitled to six months full pay and 
six months half pay if he was sick and a redundancy package, but the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to his work benefits. And it offered up to 12 months protection under a 
successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim. Overall, I think the PPI would have 
been useful for Mr S if he was sick or lost his job.
Mr Ss representative says Barclays never provided Mr S with the relevant information about 
the PPI. And I agree its possible Barclays didnt give Mr S all the information that he needed 
before he made his decision. But Mr S chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. It seems he wasnt affected by any of the likely exclusions or 
limitations and the policy was a reasonable price for the benefit it offered, and apparently 
affordable. On balance, I think its unlikely Mr S wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman