DRN-2339552
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in connection
with a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M had a comprehensive motor policy under which Aviva was responsible for dealing with
claims. There was a policy excess of £600.00 for any accident claim. Subject to that, the
insurer could choose to pay either the cost of repairs or the pre-accident value of the vehicle.
Mr Ms vehicle was damaged in an accident. Aviva arranged for a recovery vehicle to collect
the damaged vehicle from the scene of the accident.
Later Aviva decided the vehicle was beyond economic repair. It applied a pre-accident value
of £3,500.00. It couldve paid Mr M that sum less the policy excess  in which case Aviva 
wouldve become the owner of the damaged vehicle.
But Mr M wanted to pay to keep the damaged vehicle. So Aviva deducted £875.00. It paid
Mr M the balance of £2,025.00 on 25 October 2019 (plus £100.00 compensation).
Mr M travelled to collect the damaged vehicle. He complained that it wasnt available. On 5
December 2019 Aviva paid compensation of £100.00 for fuel and £75.00 for inconvenience.
On 23 December 2019 Aviva paid a further £604.00 for loss of earnings. Mr M isnt pursuing
a complaint about the wasted journey.
Mr Ms complaint is that - after the accident - Aviva was responsible for further damage to
important parts of his vehicle. So when he received it, the vehicle had more damage to
repair than he was expecting.
Aviva wrote a final response letter dated 3 January 2020. Mr M brought his complaint to us 
that day.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the
impact from the accident had already damaged vehicle parts to the point that complete
replacement was necessary.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Aviva on 13 October 2020. I summarise my findings:
Mr M had fallen short of showing that the need for replacement of the front 
suspension and steering rack and bonnet was caused  rather than by the accident 
by later rough handling.
Mr M had chosen to pay Aviva £875.00 so that he could keep the damaged vehicle. If 
it were more damaged than he was entitled to expect, his recoverable loss would be 
no more than the £875.00 hed paid for it.
Aviva s final response contained its offer to reimburse that £875.00 (and to pay a 
further £50.00 for a communication error).
Subject to any further information from Mr M or from Aviva, my provisional decision was to 
uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr M the 
amounts of £875.00 and £50.00 offered in its final response letter. I didnt intend to direct 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Aviva accepts the provisional decision.
Mr M disagrees with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
After the accident his car was further damaged by the dragging onto a tow truck and 
off the truck.
He had to pay for reports to prove this.
While the car was in storage, wires were chewed inside it. Aviva was told but didnt 
do anything.
He never received a letter with an offer of £875.00 plus £50.00.
It would cost too much to replace the parts damaged, with costs of labour.
So he has lost his vehicle.
The stress this caused him and his family was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M had a four-wheel drive vehicle that was about fifteen years old. Its recorded mileage
was about 193,000.
From the photographs, reports and witness statements, I find that the accident immediately
caused damage to Mr Ms cars front offside including the bonnet and suspension.
I also find it likely that after the accident there was further damage to the suspension and the
steering rack  caused by dragging the vehicle.
From one of the photographs, I find that someone forced the bonnet open some time after
the accident.
However I find that Mr M has fallen short of showing that the need for replacement of the
front suspension and steering rack and bonnet was caused  rather than by the accident 
by later rough handling.
In any event, Mr M had chosen to pay Aviva £875.00 so that he could keep the damagedvehicle. If it were more damaged than he was entitled to expect, his recoverable loss would
be no more than the £875.00 hed paid for it. 
In other words, if Aviva had accepted £875.00 and then completely destroyed the vehicle, it 
would only have had to pay Mr M £875.00. So, having accepted £875.00 for a vehicle that 
was more damaged than it shouldve been, Aviva doesnt have to pay any more than 
£875.00.
Aviva s final response dated 3 January 2020 contained its offer to reimburse that £875.00 
(and to pay a further £50.00 for a communication error). That same letter contained the 
details of how to contact us, which Mr M did on the afternoon of the same day. So I find it 
more likely than not that Mr M had received the final response. 
Ive found that  notwithstanding his reports  Mr M has fallen short of showing that the need 
for replacement of the front suspension and steering rack and bonnet was caused by rough 
handling. In any event my conclusion is that Avivas offer was fair. So I dont find it fair to 
direct Aviva to reimburse Mr M for the cost of the reports.
And  as the offer was for the whole of the £875.00 Mr M had agreed to pay - it wouldnt 
make any difference if there were further damage to wiring or any other parts of the car.
Putting things right
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay Mr M the amounts of £875.00 and £50.00 
offered in its final response letter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr M the amounts of £875.00 and £50.00 offered in its 
final response letter. I dont direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman