DRN-4015934
The complaint
Mr B complains through a representative that Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket 
(Quidmarket) gave him loans he couldnt afford to repay as a result he struggled to pay for 
essentials.
What happened
Mr B took eight loans from Quidmarket between January 2016 and February 2020. Ive 
outlined a summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £200.00 11/01/2016 19/04/2016 3 £103.68
gap in lending
2 £300.00 22/02/2018 03/07/2018 5 £99.43
3 £300.00 05/07/2018 23/10/2018 4 £119.60
4 £400.00 26/11/2018 09/04/2019 5 £135.35
5 £400.00 25/04/2019 30/07/2019 4 £144.69
6 £300.00 03/09/2019 19/11/2019 3 £140.06
7 £300.00 26/11/2019 11/02/2020 3 £141.03
8 £400.00 29/02/2020 02/06/2020 4 £140.46
Following Mr Bs complaint, Quidmarket issued its final response letter (FRL). In summary,
it said it had carried out proportionate checks which showed these loans were affordable.
Although, Quidmarket didnt uphold the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill it offered to
remove these loans from Mr Bs credit file. Mr Bs representative didnt agree and instead 
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold the complaint about 
loan 1. But the adjudicator did uphold the rest of the loans. In relation to loans 2  6 he said 
the credit check results Quidmarket received showed Mr B had multiple adverse markings 
including defaults, arrears and a County Court Judgement (CCJ). So, in the adjudicators 
view Mr B was already experiencing financial difficulties. Finally, he thought by the time 
loan 7 was granted, the lending had now become harmful for him. Overall, the adjudicator 
upheld the complaint about loans 2  8. 
Neither Mr B nor his representative responded to the adjudicators assessment. 
Quidmarket didnt agree with the outcome the adjudicator proposed for loans 2 - 8. In 
summary it said:
At loan 2, there were two small defaults on the credit file but that wouldnt be enough 
of a reason to say the loans were irresponsibly provided. 
Some adverse information is expected. 
Mr Bs repayment history shows he was able to repay these loans. 
The loan values stayed roughly the same which didnt lead Quidmarket to conclude 
the pattern of borrowing was harmful for Mr B. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidmarket should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. The adjudicator thought this point 
was reached by the time loan 7 was granted. 
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Neither Mr B (or his representative) nor Quidmarket appear to have disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings about loan 1. To me, this suggests the loan is no longer in dispute and therefore I will say no more about it. Instead, this decision will focus on whether Quidmarket 
did all it ought to have done before advancing loans 2 - 8. 
Loan 2
Although this was Mr Bs second loan, there had been a gap in lending of nearly two years 
since loan 1 had been repaid. Given this significant gap, while this was his second loan it 
could be treated as the first loan in a new lending chain. 
Quidmarket has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr B for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr Bs income has been recorded as being £1,400 per
month (after tax), Quidmarket says this income was electronically verified.  
Mr B also declared his monthly outgoings were £700. This left disposal income of around
£700 per month. Mr B had a sufficient amount of disposable income for Quidmarket to 
believe Mr B could afford the largest repayment of around £100. The loan looked affordable.
However, before this loan was approved Quidmarket also carried out a credit search and it 
has provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the credit
reference agency. I want to add that although Quidmarket carried out a credit search there
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what
Quidmarket couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the
information it received  if necessary.
Having looked at the credit check results; I do agree with the adjudicator that it showed a 
significantly amount of recent and current adverse credit file data. The headline figures arent 
particular concerning, Mr B had debts of nearly £4,500 and he was utilising around 82% of 
his available credit. 
But looking at the rest of the data, Quidmarket was aware of two CCJs being recorded 
against Mr B  with one being added to the credit file 5 months before this loan was 
approved. Which shows that Mr B, fairly close to when this loan was approved, had 
significant enough financial problems for a creditor to take Mr B to court for the outstanding 
debt. 
Mr B within the last year had defaulted on four accounts, however three of those defaults 
had occurred within six months of this loan application. Mr B had defaulted on a credit card, 
a mail order account and a payday loan. So, Mr B had shown, in the recent past that he had 
significant financial difficulties because he defaulted on a number of different accounts within 
a relativity short period of time. 
Mr B also had three accounts that were in delinquency  so accounts that Mr B had taken 
and had struggled to repay. One was a payday loan, the other two were also likely to have 
been payday loans given the repayment term. Two of the accounts were being recorded as 
6 in arrears  indicating that Mr B was at least six months in arrears with his repayments. 
And the other account, as of December 2017 was showing as being at least 5 months in 
arrears. This is further evidence that Mr B was at the very time this loan was being approved 
was already struggling to repay his current credit commitments. 
This is further evidenced by the fact, that Mr B had been in an arrangement to pay on one 
active account for at least the last 18 months. 
Overall, I do think the credit check results build a picture of a customer who had been for at 
least the last 12 months in financial difficulties given the number of defaults and the CCJs. 
Even if I were to discount the defaults, the fact remains that Mr B had four active accounts that were either in delinquency due to missed payments and / or subject to a payment 
arrangement.
Given the this I do think, there was just too much evidence pointing towards Mr B having 
current financial difficulties and therefore this loan and any further lending wasnt likely to be 
sustainable for him. 
In addition  and as it makes no difference to the outcome that Ive reached, I would say the 
information provided by the credit reference agencies showed that in the year before this 
loan was approved Mr B had taken and settled six payday loan accounts. Indeed, looking 
back through all the settled accounts, I can see that Mr B had been a regularly user of 
payday loan accounts since at least 2013. Which ought to have further indicated to 
Quidmarket that Mr B was having financial difficulties, as he was using short term loans to 
clearly cover a long-term hole in his finances. 
I am therefore upholding Mr Bs complaint about loan 2.
Loans 3 - 6
For these loans Quidmarket carried out the same sort of checks. Mr Bs income was 
recorded as being £1,400 and £1,500 per month for these loans. With declared monthly 
expenditure as being between £550 and a maximum of £800. The smallest monthly 
disposable income figure recorded by Quidmarket during this time was £600. So as with 
loan 2, these loans appeared affordable based solely on the income and expenditure 
information Mr B provided. 
And even though as Ive said above, I do think these loans ought to not have been 
advanced, given that loan 2 was already upheld I did have a look to see what Quidmarket 
was provided with when it carried out its credit searches before it approved these loans. Ive 
considered the results that it received, and I still think the results given for these loans 
indicated that Mr B continued to have long term financial difficulties. 
For example, when loan 4 was advanced, Mr B still had roughly the same amount of debt as 
he did when loan 2 was advanced and he had continued to open new credit accounts. 
Indeed, in the period of time when loan 2 was running up to loan 4 being granted Mr B 
repaid seven high-cost short term loan accounts  and two of these accounts had sustained 
arrears on them. 
In addition, he still had two active payday loan accounts  indicating a continued need for 
credit. One recently closed mobile phone contract account had been in arrears in July 2018 
and he was over his credit limit on one of his credit cards. 
By the time of loan 6, Mr B had a new CCJ recorded against him (in December 2018) so 
while he was still repaying his Quidmarket loans Mr B was still showing that he was 
struggling to repay his outstanding debts. 
And while no new defaults had been applied, Mr B was now at least three months in arrears 
with a Finance House loan that was advanced in November 2018. Importantly, these 
arrears had occurred within the three months leading up to loan 6 being advanced, so this is 
further evidence that Mr B wasnt able to manage his existing credit commitments. 
He was also still above his credit limit which had been set on 2 credit cards and there was 
still evidence that Mr B was regularly taking high-cost short term loans. So even looking 
further into Mr Bs credit report for these later loans Im still satisfied Quidmarket was on notice that Mr B was likely having immediate financial problems as he was struggling to pay 
his existing debts. Im also upholding Mr Bs complaint about these loans. 
Loans 7 and 8 
In addition to looking at the checks that Quidmarket did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Quidmarkets lending history with Mr B, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Quidmarket should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Quidmarket should have realised that it shouldnt have provided 
any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 7. I say this because:
At this point Quidmarket ought to have realised Mr B was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr B had taking out his six loans in 21 months. So Quidmarket 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr B was having to borrow further 
to cover a long-term short fall in his living costs. 
From his first loan, Mr B was generally provided with a new loan shortly after the 
previous loan had been repaid, for example, before loan 7 there was only a gap of 
7 days. I accept there some larger gaps, such as just over a month between loans 5 
and 6 but I dont think that along shows that Mr B wasnt likely borrowing to fill a 
short-term hole in his finances. To me, at times, the quick up take in borrowing is a 
sign that Mr B was using these loans to fill a long-term gap in his income rather than 
as a short-term need.  
Mr Bs first loan was for £300 and loan 7 was for the same amount.  At this point 
Quidmarket ought to have known that Mr B was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in their income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Quidmarket. Loan 8 was 
taken out 24 months after Mr Bs second loan (the first in a new chain) and was to be 
repaid over a similar term. Mr B had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to Quidmarket over an extended period.
I think that Mr B lost out when Quidmarket provided loans 7 and 8 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr B borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans 2 - 8 and Ive outlined below what 
Quidmarket needs to do in order to put things right.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quidmarket should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent loans 2 to 8 to Mr B, as Im satisfied it ought not to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quidmarkets liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Quidmarket shouldnt have given Mr B loans 2 to 8.
A. Quidmarket should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan.
B. Quidmarket should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Quidmarket should pay Mr B the total of A plus B.
D. Quidmarket should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Bs credit 
file in relation to loans 2  6. The overall pattern of Mr Bs borrowing for loans 7 and 8 
means any information Quidmarket has recorded about them is adverse, so it should 
remove these loans entirely from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to deduct tax from this interest. Quidmarket
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint in part.
Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket should put things right for Mr B as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman