DRN-2539400
The complaint
Mr F complains that UK Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill Insurance) didnt pursue his 
personal injury claim following a car accident.
What happened
Mr F had a car insurance policy with Churchill. He was involved in an accident in May 2017 
and made a claim on his insurance.
Initially, Mr F said he didnt want to make a personal injury (PI) claim. However, soon after 
the accident he suffered pain and went to his doctor who diagnosed whiplash. He emailed 
Churchill to ask about a PI claim. When he received no reply, he sent a follow-up email. 
Churchill didnt respond to this either.
Mr F said his personal circumstances meant he didnt pursue this until February 2020. He 
eventually spoke to Churchill in May 2020, just a few days before the three year limitation 
period for PI claims was due to expire. Churchill asked him to issue protective proceedings 
as it was too late to appoint its own solicitors, but he didnt do this.
Churchill acknowledged that Mr F contacted it about making a PI claim in 2017. Its legal 
advisors told Mr F, these enquiries were not passed to [Churchills] legal expense 
department or indeed ourselves. Churchill offered Mr F £75 to apologise for not replying to 
his 2017 emails.
Mr F didnt accept that. He says Churchills failure to contact him about a PI claim lost me 
the opportunity to receive possible compensation from the third party. He brought his 
complaint to this service.
Mr Fs complaint was reviewed by two of our investigators. Both recommended that it should 
be upheld. The first investigator found that Churchill failed to reply to Mr Fs initial emails in 
2017. However, she noted that it was impossible to know whether any PI claim would have 
been successful, and that Mr F hadnt chased Churchill about this for almost three years. 
Our second investigator agreed and also found that Churchill failed to reply to further 
correspondence from Mr F about the same matter in early 2020. He recommended that 
Churchill pay Mr F £150 for the upset it caused him by not replying to his emails.
Both parties disagreed with our second investigator. Mr F didnt think our investigators 
recommended award was enough; Churchill thought it was too much. The case was passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Churchill confirmed to us that Mr Fs policy included cover for legal expenses. It initially 
accepted that it failed to forward Mr Fs emails to either its motor legal expense team or its 
legal advisors. However, it later told us: The reason we advised him to call us [in August 
2017] was simply because the mailbox was no longer in operation. We did not ignore his 
emails but were not aware of them. 
Thats clearly not right. Churchills internal notes show the emails from Mr F on 6 June 2017 
(Could you please contact me asap with regards to claiming for personal injury) and 16 
June 2017 (I sent an email on 22nd May 2017 [sic] regarding personal injury claiming and 
for Churchills to phone me about it. I have not received any call or correspondence about it 
yet.). If the mailbox was inactive, I dont see how Churchill would have a record of these 
emails.
So Im satisfied that Mr F contacted Churchill in June 2017, less than two months after the 
accident and while his claim for damage to his car was still open. 
However, by his own admission Mr F didnt contact Churchill after that second email for 
nearly three years. Mr F explained that his personal circumstances made this difficult and I 
appreciate that, but I dont think they would have made it impossible. 
Churchill wrote to Mr F on 18 August 2017 to confirm his original claim for the accident was 
closed. I think Mr F might reasonably have challenged this given he hadnt heard anything 
about his PI query. I think that if Mr F wanted to pursue a PI claim, the onus was on him to 
make sure Churchill knew this and opened the claim.
I see from Churchills notes that, following Mr Fs email on 3 March 2020, it called him and 
left him a voicemail asking him to call back. A note following this call says, When PH calls 
back advise of above and ask why we have only been made aware at this late date. PH is 
more than likely unable to pursue now. 
Mr F called Churchill in May 2020, just a few days before the end of the limitation period. 
Churchills legal team explained that, given the limitation period, protective proceedings 
needed to be issued in court. Mr F told us that he called a few solicitors who said that 
because of the timescale its something they wouldnt do. This suggests that even if 
Churchill had pursued a belated claim in May 2020 it had little chance of success.
Finally, Section H of Mr Fs policy covers legal assistance. It says, Reporting your claim a) 
You must report full and factual details of your claim to us within a reasonable time of it 
happening. Given it was almost three years since the accident, I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Churchill not to pursue the claim at that stage.
I agree that Churchill should have replied to Mr Fs emails in 2017 and that this would have 
caused Mr F some upset. Mr F wants Churchill to pay him the compensation he would have 
got for his injury in 2017. I dont think thats reasonable. For one thing, theres no way of 
knowing whether any PI claim would have succeeded or what any award might have been. 
But I also think Mr F might reasonably have chased Churchill for a response or complain 
about its failure to do so in 2017. The longer he left it, the less likely the chances of his PI 
claim succeeding. 
Churchill offered Mr F £75. Our investigator recommended that it pay Mr F an extra £75, 
bringing the total compensation to £150. In the circumstances, I think this is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require UK Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill Insurance) to pay Mr F £150 to reflect the inconvenience it caused him. It can 
deduct £75 if it has already paid this amount. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman