DRN-2272858
The complaint
Ms L is director of a limited company that Ill refer to as D. Shes complained on Ds behalf 
that AXA Insurance Limited unfairly turned down a claim on their commercial vehicle 
insurance policy. 
Ms L has been helped in bringing this complaint to our service, but for ease of reading Ill 
refer to all actions and comments as being those of Ms L. 
What happened
One of Ds drivers needed recovering after their lorry became stuck in soft ground. The 
driver said theyd stopped to check a narrow road and the lorry started sinking into the soft, 
wet ground. D arranged recovery and asked AXA if they could recover these costs through 
their policy. 
AXA turned down the claim. It said the policy only covers the cost of protecting or moving the 
vehicle if its disabled as a result of being lost or damaged. And it didnt consider being stuck 
in soft ground as loss or damage. AXA said there was a separate breakdown section of the 
policy, but this excluded recovery where a vehicle was stuck in snow, mud, sand or flood. It 
added that even if Ds driver had been entitled to cover under this section, they should have 
called the 24-hour helpline before arranging recovery. 
Ms L was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service. He said hed taken 
action to prevent the lorry being damaged, which would have been covered by his policy. 
Our investigator looked into Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
AXA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Ms L 
remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Ds policy say that if the lorry is disabled as a result of loss or damage covered 
by the loss or damage section of the policy, then AXA will pay reasonable costs for 
protecting and moving it to the nearest repairers. 
I can see the drivers statement was that the lorry started sinking into the wet, soft ground, 
after they stopped to check a narrow road. Its also been confirmed that there wasnt any 
damage to the lorry. So, I dont think there was any damage to the lorry that was covered 
under the loss or damage section of the policy. As such I dont think Ds driver was entitled 
to reimbursement for recovery under this section of the policy. 
The haulage assistance section of the policy provides cover for vehicle breakdown. But this 
section has an exclusion which says breakdown assistance or recovery isnt covered if the 
vehicle is partly or completely buried in snow, mud, sand or flood. The drivers statement 
says the lorry was sinking into wet, soft ground. So, I think its fair and reasonable for AXA to 
say the lorry was partly buried in mud. And as such I dont think it needed to provide 
recovery under this section of the policy.
Ive considered Ms Ls point that by arranging recovery she prevented further damage. 
However, this is something shes required to do, and it doesnt mean Ds claim should be 
covered as a result.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms L, but I think AXAs decision to 
decline Ds claim was fair and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman