DRN-3585240
The complaint
Ms D has complained about her contents insurer Aviva Insurance Limited in respect of a 
claim she made when there was a fire at her home.
What happened
There was a fire at Ms Ds home which she shares with her family. Aviva accepted a claim 
and appointed a specialist disaster team to list and clear the contents items. A loss adjuster 
wasnt appointed. Ms D asked for assistance with moving out but Aviva thought the buildings 
insurer would be arranging that. Ms D then became concerned that items taken for disposal 
had been missed from the list created by the disaster team, and she wasnt happy with the 
prices that had been presented for items that were listed. The disaster team had taken a 
painting for restoration but after several months Ms D had heard nothing about it. Just when 
Ms D thought the claim was drawing to a close a problem arose with a deposit amount that 
Ms D thought she would receive back. However, a mix-up resulted in Ms D being asked for 
money and/or believing she wouldnt receive this money back.
In January 2021 Aviva established that the disaster team still had the painting, this still 
hadnt been sent to the restoration company. Over several letters Aviva:
Accepted it had been wrong to initially decline Ms Ds claim for outbuildings.
Said it had communicated poorly with Ms D.
Set out what payments it was making for outstanding contents items.
Apologised for the issues which had arisen around the deposit.
Aviva paid Ms D £150 compensation and offered her a further £100. 
Ms D felt that was insufficient given everything shed been through. She still felt unclear 
about what Aviva had paid for contents items as the piecemeal way payments had been 
made was (to her) confusing. She remained unhappy that the painting hadnt been returned 
to her. Overall she felt let down  that Aviva hadnt initially assisted them enough in the early 
stages of the claim, particularly with finding a property. And then when it did step in to assist 
with finding them alternative accommodation (AA), its agent had been ineffectual. 
When our investigator contacted Aviva, it said it hadnt had a complaint from Ms D about the 
contents settlement, or the painting. But it made some enquiries regarding the painting which 
was subsequently returned to Ms D. She was unhappy about the state it was in and our 
investigator confirmed that she would have to make a new complaint about that to Aviva.
Regarding other issues our investigator noted that Aviva only provided the contents cover for 
the property. So he felt it had acted fairly and reasonably in that role. He said it should 
refund Ms Ds costs for moving from the property and it agreed to do so.
Ms D was dissatisfied. Her complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans consideration. 
I felt Aviva had failed Ms D at times and that it needed to do more to put things right. 
I explained my views in a provisional decision, my findings of which were:
property security
I know Ms D was unhappy that, in the aftermath of the fire and for several weeks, the 
property was left insecure. But that wasnt something for Aviva to deal with. That is because 
it was only providing cover for the familys contents items  which in this case included cover 
for the outbuildings themselves as well. I appreciate that the way the property was left was 
very worrying for Ms D  but that wasnt Avivas fault.
removal costs
Aviva was going to arrange removal  but it couldnt get it booked in quickly enough. So 
Ms D found a company herself at a cost of £695. Aviva agreed to pay that sum  that it had 
always said that it would once it saw proof of Ms Ds outlay. I understand that Aviva has 
recently made that payment. Im pleased this has now been settled  I certainly would have 
been making Aviva pay it if it hadnt already agreed to do so. And I think Aviva wanting to 
see proof of Ms Ds outlay was reasonable. As long as it has been paid, in any final decision 
I issue, I wont make any award in this respect.
contents settlement
Ive reviewed Avivas file and I think Ms D did tell it she was unhappy with things. Whilst 
I appreciate she hasnt specifically said she was unclear about what items were being paid 
for, she did say, in reference to her providing lists and costs, that she was having difficulty. 
She said she was feeling like she was having to do the disaster teams work. The implication 
at the very least was that she was struggling. So I think I can reasonably look into her 
concerns about not knowing what settlement has been paid.
I note Aviva did give Ms D a clear list in January 2021 of what the outstanding payment it 
was making at that time was for. And I note that when it made payments earlier in the claim, 
it did give Ms D some detail  but I dont think that was enough. 
So there was a long list of items and costs which Aviva shared with Ms D. The costs detailed 
totalled £11,069.77. Aviva paid that sum to Ms D as an interim settlement. But Ms D 
challenged that. She said some items were undervalued, some having been given no value 
at all and some were missing. Aviva noted that Ms D had added £5,433.74 to the costs it 
had set out, as well as pricing the items it hadnt given any value for at £12,986.93. The 
missing items were set out by Ms D and mostly featured in the further payment list detailed 
in January 2021. However, seemingly, Aviva wasnt wholly persuaded by the totals Ms D 
had presented. It said it would pay her £3,910.77 of the £5,433.74 total sum and £3,384.99 
of the £12,986.93 total sum. That is straightforward enough but I understand where Ms D is 
coming from  she hasnt been told what values have been ascribed to the various items 
which make up those totals and resultant settlements. I think Aviva should share that detail 
with Ms D. She should then, along with the original list and the details provided by Aviva in 
January 2021, have a clear breakdown of Avivas settlement for her claim. She can then 
decide if she is happy with the costs attributed. 
The parties will note I have not given any view on the costs themselves at this point. 
Currently, because Ms D did not have a full breakdown from Aviva, the parties have not had 
chance to consider or review their final respective positions on the amounts paid and any 
resultant disputes. Once that is done, if Ms D remains unhappy, she can make a further 
complaint regarding the quantum of the contents settlement, either as a whole or in respect 
of certain items.
Id add that I know Ms D feels payments have been made piecemeal. I think she is correct in 
that and I can understand this was likely frustrating for her. And I note Aviva accepts that it should have appointed a loss adjuster to oversee this claim. Ill take that into account further 
on. But even with a loss adjuster on board, settlement for claims like this often occurs 
piecemeal. It isnt unusual for a policyholder to feel items are missed or only remembered 
later and have to be added for further review. Furthermore, this service would always 
encourage insurers to make initial, interim and/or emergency payments where appropriate to 
assist policyholders. This unavoidably adds to the piecemeal nature of the settlements.
emergency payment of £200
The fire affected two bedrooms. Ms D told Aviva they (4 adults) had no clothes available at 
all. Aviva paid them £200 on 9 July 2020. Ms D later told us that hadnt been enough.
I cant see that Mr D ever challenged Aviva on the amount of the emergency payment. But 
I bear in mind that she has shared some emails with us that, for whatever, reason, arent 
reflected on the file Aviva has sent us. I also bear in mind though that in the week after the 
emergency payment Ms D was dealing with some very difficult circumstances and she was 
clearly unhappy about the progress of the claim in general. So I think I can reasonably look 
into her concerns about this activity.
I think Aviva could have done more to assist Ms D at this time. I dont think £200 would go 
far. And Avivas file shows that from this point it was chasing the disaster team for its initial 
assessment of the loss. The interim contents settlement wasnt paid until 14 August 2020. 
Whilst an emergency payment wouldnt be expected to stretch to buying a new wardrobe, 
I think it would have been difficult for the family to clothe themselves for that period on such 
a small sum. I think Aviva could reasonably have reviewed what it had paid as the weeks 
went on  and I think that if someone like a loss adjuster had been overseeing this claim, 
things like this would have been managed. Ill take this into account when awarding 
compensation.
AA
Aviva is the contents insurer. It is fair to say that in respect of a claim issue like this, the 
buildings insurer usually takes the lead. So I think it was reasonable of Aviva on 
30 June 2020 to say that the buildings insurer should be handling that. 
However, as of 2 July 2020, Ms D emailed Aviva and asked for its help. Aviva didnt offer 
assistance. And even when its disaster team told it on 9 July 2020 that Ms D had found 
herself having to source AA herself, Aviva still didnt step in. I know that on 16 July 2020 
Aviva heard that Ms D was expecting to move somewhere shortly. But it still didnt get in 
touch with Ms D. And it was 21 July 2020, following a further plea for help from Ms D, that 
Aviva finally looked to assist her. I think Aviva should have stepped in before then. Whilst the 
buildings insurer usually takes the lead it was obvious from 2 July that Ms D wasnt being 
assisted by the buildings insurer and, as her insurer, Aviva should have taken over.    
When Aviva stepped in it seems its accommodation agent began having trouble finding 
appropriate properties for Ms D. Problems like this can sometimes arise and it may take a 
little while to find a property which reasonably accommodates the needs of those involved. 
However, what an insurer usually does in the meantime is put the policyholder into some 
form of short-term emergency accommodation. That type of accommodation will not be like 
their own home but it will get them out of the uninhabitable conditions theyre living in whilst 
more appropriate AA is found. As it was it was 15 August 2020 before Ms D and her family 
moved out of their fire damaged and asbestos contaminated home. Even from 21 July that, 
in my view, was far too long. So I think Aviva failed Ms D in respect of AA. Again I think things would likely have been 
managed, and proactively, if a loss adjuster had been appointed. As it was, when Aviva did 
act, it was seemingly only in response to contact from Ms D. In short it should have stepped 
in to assist her much earlier than it did, and even once it did step in, it didnt do enough to 
move her and the family out of their damaged home. Ill take that into account when 
awarding compensation.
painting
Contrary to what Aviva told us, I can see that Ms D had raised concerns with it about where 
the painting was and what was happening with it. So I am going to look at that part of Ms Ds 
complaint. I know that the painting has since been returned to Ms D and that she is unhappy 
with its condition. But I cant and wont be looking at that as it is a new issue. I trust Aviva 
has progressed her complaint in respect of how the painting has been returned to her.
The disaster team took the painting away on 14 July 2020. By 5 November 2020 Aviva itself 
noted that it needed to find out what was happening with the painting. It was about ten days 
later when it made some enquiries. Whilst nothing came from those, Aviva didnt then follow 
up on the matter until mid-December 2020. And that was only prompted by Ms D having 
asked it for an update. Seemingly the disaster team, at that point, were unsure of the 
whereabouts of the painting and said theyd have to check. In mid-January 2021 Aviva 
ascertained that the disaster team still had the painting at its depot and it had not yet been 
sent for restoration. I have no idea why the painting had sat without being dealt with for all 
that time. This does not equate to a reasonable handling of this claim aspect. Either in terms 
of the time itself or the way in which Aviva followed up on it. Ill take this into account when 
awarding compensation.
But I cant comment on how the delay in sending the painting for restoration may or may not 
have affected the condition it was returned in. Thats partly because I dont know the parties 
full views on the restoration aspect. As I said above, Im not looking at that. But also because 
Im not sure when, after this the painting did get sent for restoration. Theres no more detail 
on Avivas file about it. But as I know there is a complaint pending about the condition in 
which the painting was returned, Im going to stop my analysis of the claim activity which 
occurred in respect of the painting at this point. To be clear that date is 13 January 2021. 
And the painting was returned to Ms D in April 2022. So this period and what happened in 
respect of the painting in that time has not been considered by me and, therefore, can be 
considered as part of a different complaint. As can, if relevant, how the delay in sending it for 
restoration affected its condition upon return.
compensation
Ive set out above some key aspects which Im taking into account when awarding 
compensation. In addition I note that Ms D has certain health issues which Avivas file notes 
it was aware of throughout the claim. And, as such, I accept that Avivas failures had a 
significant impact on her. She also found herself having to care for Mr D who became 
seriously ill during the period the family were living in the damaged home. I cant reasonably 
say that most likely occurred due to Avivas failure to not re-house them. But I think that 
likely didnt help the situation. 
I further accept that Avivas failure regarding the deposit had a huge negative impact on 
Ms D. Aviva had paid the deposit for the AA. But it had deducted the sum from the contents 
settlement paid to Ms D. So Avivas letting agent should have been told to pay Ms D the 
deposit back at the end of the tenancy. But when it checked with Aviva, Aviva told it the 
money had to come back to it. This resulted in the letting agent contacting both Ms D and 
her landlord, demanding that the deposit fund was released to it for payment to Aviva. I accept that, in some ways, this was a relatively minor failing on Avivas part  a simple 
oversight by someone dealing with a complex file. But it was avoidable. Not least as the 
letting agent, when making its enquiry of Aviva, said Ms D had told it she believed it had 
been off-set against the settlement. Which was correct and relatively easily verifiable. In any 
event, whether or not an avoidable error is simple/minor doesnt necessarily speak to the 
magnitude of the impact of the error. In that respect I understand that here, for Ms D, 
finances were somewhat strained, and shed had months of dealing with a difficult and trying 
claim, whilst not being in the best of health. She was also at a point, I think, where she felt 
the biggest issues (although not all issues) had been resolved or were concluding. And then 
Avivas error occurred, and she was suddenly being approached regarding payment of a not 
insignificant amount of money. I dont think her landlord was too happy about the situation 
either and I think this likely caused Ms D more upset and worry. And Ms D herself has 
explained how this situation caused her to need to seek support from a national advice 
service. Its not clear exactly how long Ms D was having difficulty regarding the deposit 
before she approached Aviva  but I think it was likely at least a couple of weeks and maybe 
about a month looking at the date when the error occurred. I note that once Ms D told Aviva 
what was happening it acted quickly within just a few days to both resolve things, apologise 
and offer compensation. I think that likely limited Ms Ds suffering but, even so, Im not 
persuaded the apology and compensation offered were fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So Ive taken all of this into account as well.
Overall, I think Aviva should be paying Ms D a total of £1,500 compensation. It can deduct 
from that any sums it has paid already  likely £150, with the £100 only being offered not 
paid. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances considering all of the upset 
caused by its failings.
Aviva said it didnt think I should be considering the complaints about the emergency 
payment and the painting. Also that it wanted to be sure I had understood the complexities of 
the AA situation. Aviva further said it wanted to better understand my reasons for the 
compensation award. Our Investigator spoke to Aviva to explain that my provisional decision 
set out all my views on the complaint, including why I felt I could consider certain aspects of 
it and to what extent I had done so. 
Ms D said her policy covered her for moving out of the home. She said that if Aviva thinks 
this was the responsibility of the buildings insurer then it had mis-sold her policy. Ms D said 
£1,500 compensation was not enough. She did not think the fact of asbestos being in the 
property had been taken into account. Ms D said the whole house was affected as the 
asbestos was airborne.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Avivas concerns about my considering the issues of the emergency payment 
and painting as part of this complaint and decision. However, it hasnt said anything which 
persuades me I cant or shouldnt be dealing with them. And as Ive explained provisionally, 
Im aware that there is an outstanding issue in respect of the painting which Ms D and Aviva 
are currently discussing between themselves. And I explained that I was not looking at that.
I know Ms Ds policy, which covers the contents of her home, includes cover for AA. Aviva 
does have a liability to Ms D in this respect. And Ms D has benefitted from that because 
Aviva paid for her and her family to live elsewhere for a significant period of time. So her 
policy was not mis-sold to her. But it is the case that the established industry practice, in respect of AA, in a situation like 
this, is for the buildings insurer to take the lead. In any event though, both Ms D and Aviva 
will note from my provisional findings that I said Aviva was made aware within a few days 
that Ms D, as its policyholder, needed assistance. I also said that whilst finding AA like her 
home was clearly difficult, Aviva should have looked at putting Ms D in to short-term 
temporary AA. I still think Aviva could and should have done more to assist Ms D with AA. 
And I can assure Aviva that I say that whilst having fully considered all of its claim 
submissions and having taken into account all the complexities of the claim situation. 
I set out provisionally why I felt a total of £1,500 compensation was fairly and reasonably 
due. Aviva hasnt provided any detail which makes me think that is an unfairly or 
unreasonably high sum. Ms D thinks it is too little. Ive considered Ms Ds response in this 
respect. But it doesnt add anything I wasnt aware of when making my provisional decision. 
As I said provisionally Avivas failure in respect of AA meant she and her family were left in 
the fire and asbestos damaged home for far too long.
Having considered the parities responses to my provisional decision, my view on the 
complaint has not changed. As such my provisional findings are now those of this, my final 
decision. 
Putting things right
I require Aviva to:
Provide a full list, perhaps in a spreadsheet format, to Ms D setting out what has been 
paid for what items.
Pay a total of £1,500 compensation (but any sums already paid can be deducted first 
and just the amount outstanding paid).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman