DRN-3355786
The complaint
Mr F complains about the advice given by JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) to 
transfer the benefits from his deferred defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to 
a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused 
a financial loss.
What happened
In April 2010 Mr F met with JLT via an introduction from his ex-employer to discuss his 
pension and retirement needs. 
JLT completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Fs circumstances and objectives. 
JLT also carried out an assessment of Mr Fs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced overall  but for this transaction it was recorded that Mr F wanted to invest in a 
70/30 split between balanced and adventurous investment profiles.
On 9 June 2010 JLT advised Mr F to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension 
and invest the proceeds in funds JLT deemed matched the investment risk profile split I 
referred to above. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
The investment returns required to both Mr Fs normal retirement age of 65 and his 
assumed early retirement age of 60 were within the range it deemed appropriate to 
recommend a transfer given Mr Fs attitude to risk.
To enable the enhanced transfer value to boost Mr Fs pension funding.
To provide the possibility of a higher amount of tax-free cash at retirement.
Mr F duly accepted the recommendation to transfer and the transfer took place in September 
2010.
In 2020 JLT carried out a proactive review of the advice it provided Mr F in 2010. In 
summary it deemed the advice was suitable. But it determined that it had incorrectly 
recorded Mr Fs target retirement date of 55 when it should have been 60. Because JLT 
acknowledged that this might have had an impact on Mr Fs retirement fund and the way it 
had been invested, JLT carried out a loss assessment. But this showed Mr F had not lost 
out. 
Mr F complained to JLT following the outcome of its review because he said he believed the 
advice wasnt suitable and he should not have transferred out of his DB pension scheme.
JLT didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. In summary it said that it had gathered information about 
Mr Fs circumstances, including his attitude to risk, which had been taken into account in 
providing the recommendation to transfer as set out in its report. It said that assuming a 
retirement age of 60, the critical yield was 7.2%, which was lower than the 7.65% return or 
growth rate it believed was achievable - so the transfer was suitable. It said the report made 
it clear that Mr F could have remained in his DB scheme. Finally it confirmed that it had 
addressed the issue identified in its review of the advice about Mr Fs incorrect preferred 
retirement age.
In 2021 Mr F referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
required JLT to pay compensation. In summary they said it didnt appear that Mr F had any 
particular retirement planning need to suggest why he needed to transfer out of his DB 
scheme. They said the recommendation to transfer was solely based on the potential to 
produce greater benefits than Mr Fs DB scheme. But given the critical yield required to 
match Mr Fs DB scheme benefits was 7.2%, taking account of the discount rate at the time 
which was 6.2%, they said they didnt think the return was achievable. They went on to 
explain that they didnt think the rate of return required took account of the lifestyling option 
built into the investment strategy (this is where around 10 years from retirement the 
investment strategy changes by moving some of the investments into lower risk assets) 
further reducing the potential for the required growth to be achieved. They said they believed 
Mr F was exposed to too high a level of risk to try and meet the return required - so they 
didnt think the advice to transfer was appropriate.
JLT disagreed. In summary it said what it described as the Hurdle Rate referred to in its 
suitability report was a reasonable reflection of an achievable investment return based on 
the term to retirement and Mr Fs attitude to risk. It clarified that this rate had taken into 
account the lifestyling profile contrary to what the investigator concluded. It said it didnt 
have to refer to the discount rate as the investigator said and considered it inappropriate for 
them to have disregarded the hurdle rate and deferred to the discount rate as the reason 
why the advice was unsuitable. It concluded by saying that Mr Fs attitude to risk had been 
correctly assessed and that overall it was satisfied the advice was suitable.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. My reasons are set out below. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, JLT should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Fs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return, or critical yield required to match Mr Fs benefits at age 60  his 
preferred retirement age - was 7.9% if he took a full pension and 7.2% if he took his tax-free 
cash entitlement and a reduced pension. This compares with the discount rate of 6.2% per 
year for 12 years to retirement in this case. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Fs 
attitude to risk as mainly balanced with a smaller exposure to adventurous risk, and also the 
term to retirement. 
In my view there would be little point in Mr F giving up the guarantees available to him
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the
scheme. But here, taking the most likely option of Mr F taking tax-free cash and a reduced
pension, the critical yield was 7.2%. And while marginally, this is still above the regulators 
middle projection rate. But it is also 1% higher than the discount rate. Based on this, I think 
Mr F was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, 
as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
I can see JLT has said it doesnt think it is right to rely on the discount rate in concluding the 
advice was unsuitable and disregard the growth rate it calculated at the time of the advice, 
which it considered was reasonably achievable. Firstly, as I said above I think the published 
discount rates are a useful indication of reasonably achievable growth rates at the time JLT 
provided its advice to Mr F. So I think is it fair and reasonable for me to take them into 
account in assessing the financial viability of the transfer. Secondly, I think it is important to 
highlight that this is not the only factor in my consideration of whether the advice to Mr F to 
transfer out of his DB scheme was suitable. Ive also referred to the regulators projection 
rates and I also think Mr Fs wider circumstances are important here. And this includes his 
capacity for loss, which I consider was low. I say this because Mr Fs DB scheme, as the 
adviser recorded, represented a major proportion of his retirement funding at the time of the 
advice  a guaranteed and increasing income. Hed only recently joined his current 
employers defined contribution scheme and it was worth not much more than £1,000.
But if I accept JLTs argument that the growth rate it calculated at the time  a rate of 7.65% 
- was achievable and so greater than the critical yield figure of 7.2%, it is only higher by what 
I consider to be a small margin. As Ive already said, I consider there would be little point in 
Mr F giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve at 
best the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And here, because the difference 
between the two rates was so small, I think its likely that, at best, Mr F would end up 
receiving benefits of broadly the same overall value as a result of investing in line with his 
recorded attitude to risk. Importantly, there of course still remained the risk that Mr F might 
end up with benefits of a lower overall value than his DB scheme at retirement.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Fs best interests.
Nevertheless, even if I accept that the transfer had the potential to be financially viable, 
crucially in my view I think the adviser disregarded a key need of Mr Fs recorded in the fact-
find, which ought to have reasonably prompted them to conclude the advice to transfer 
wasnt in Mr Fs best interests. I say this because Mr F was asked to tick a series of boxes in 
response to some key questions, which the fact-find said would help to advise on the most 
appropriate option for Mr Fs circumstances. One of those questions was about Control and 
flexibility of pension funds. This asked Mr F to answer either Yes or No to the following: 
Company pension schemes often have strict rules that state exactly how pension benefits are to be paid. These rules do not usually provide flexibility to take account of your individual 
circumstances. In addition, you will have little or no control over the way your pension fund is 
invested. I would prefer to move my pension to an individual plan which is under my control 
And Mr F answered No. 
I think this was an important answer. Not only does it in my view bring into question the level 
of risk Mr F was truly willing to take with his DB pension benefits, it suggests to me that he 
had no real need to transfer out of his DB scheme and had a preference to remain in the DB 
scheme  otherwise he wouldve answered differently. Indeed I can see that immediately 
underneath the reasons why the adviser recommended Mr F should transfer in their 
suitability letter they said: However, this does not accord with your preference to remain in 
the Plan and if transferring you must be comfortable with taking on the investment risk...
But if the adviser didnt think it was a suitable recommendation or in Mr Fs best interests 
taking account of his circumstances, needs and preferences, then they shouldnt have 
recommended Mr F go ahead with the transfer.
Furthermore there were no other compelling reasons in my view to support the transfer or 
objectives which couldnt have been met by Mr F remaining in his DB scheme. For example 
Mr F didnt need access to the cash lump sum on offer representing the enhancement to the  
transfer value; he couldve taken early retirement at 60 from his DB scheme; he didnt want 
to take control of his pension or need flexibility in how he accessed his benefits; and his 
scheme offered a tax-free lump sum at retirement. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the potential for higher benefits and the enhancement to the transfer value 
to boost his pension funding through a personal pension would have sounded attractive to 
Mr F. But JLT wasnt there to just transact what Mr F might have thought was a good idea or 
what he thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr F needed 
and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr F was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr F was very likely to obtain 
at best broadly the same retirement benefits, with the risk that they might be lower. In my 
view, there were no other compelling reasons which would justify a transfer  indeed I think 
Mr Fs needs indicated a good reason not to.
So, I think JLT shouldve advised Mr F to remain in his DB scheme.
I now need to consider whether Mr F wouldve gone ahead anyway, against JLTs advice.
Having done so, I dont think Mr F wouldve insisted on transferring out of his DB scheme
and gone head in any event. I say this because Mr F was not in my view an experienced
investor who possessed the requisite knowledge, skill or confidence to go against the 
professional advice they received. 
So I think Mr F relied solely on the advice he was given. At the time this pension was the 
primary source of Mr Fs guaranteed future retirement provision. So, if JLT had provided him 
with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt suitable 
for him, because he wasnt likely to be any better off in retirement and his preference was to 
remain in the scheme given he didnt want or need control or flexibility, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight. I think Mr F wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think JLT should compensate Mr F for the unsuitable advice, using
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £250 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr F. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish JLT 
 thats the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical 
impact this had on Mr F. Taking everything into account, including that I consider Mr F is 
now at the age when his retirement provision is of greater importance to him, I think the 
unsuitable advice has caused him distress. So I think an award of £250 is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr F, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for JLTs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr F would
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My understanding is that Mr Fs normal scheme retirement age was 65. But Mr F indicated at 
the time of the advice that he intended to retire at 60 and hes told us that hes about to start 
drawing benefits now that hes turned 60. So I think its likely Mr F wouldve accessed his 
benefits from age 60 had he remained in his DB scheme. A retirement age of 60 should 
therefore be the basis for the calculations. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Fs acceptance of the decision.
JLT may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Fs
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Fs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Fs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Mr F within 90 days of the date JLT receives notification of
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes JLT to pay Mr F.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr F the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
JLT Wealth Management Limited should also pay Mr F £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience the unsuitable advice caused.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
JLT Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr F any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require JLT 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr F any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mr F the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr F.
If Mr F accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr F can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr F may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman