DRN-2620342
The complaint
Mr D complained that he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
Mr D said he took out the PPI when he applied for his mortgage in 1999. Nationwide told us 
the policy was taken out by phone at a later date  in 2003  and that it did not offer advice 
on the policy. Mr D said the policy wasnt explained, and he didnt need it as he had good 
employee benefits. 
The PPI policy provided unemployment cover for Mr D at a monthly cost of £27.13, and the 
monthly benefit was £800.00. If Mr D had made a successful claim, the policy couldve paid 
out for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr D disagreed, and asked that 
it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked first at the date of the sale, which Mr D said was in 1999 when he took out his 
mortgage. He also said that he took the policy out through a broker  and I should say at this 
point that, if this were the case, I could not hold Nationwide responsible for answering a 
complaint about the actions of an unrelated third party.
However, I am satisfied that the sale took place in 2003 as Nationwide said. I say this 
because Nationwide sent in copies of its computer records of Mr Ds policy, along with a 
note relating to the setting up of the new policy, and these records show a policy start date of 
March 2003. The contents of the note are consistent with the sale resulting from a marketing 
call, and the note is dated February 2003. 
Im satisfied Nationwide didnt advise Mr D to take out the PPI. But it shouldve given him 
enough information for him to decide if the policy was right for him. 
As the sale took place during a phone call, I cant know how the salesperson explained the 
PPI. However, I can see that there were other levels of cover available (Mr D couldve had a 
policy covering accident and sickness instead of, or as well as, unemployment) and he 
couldve had a longer benefit period. So this suggests that there was some discussion so as 
to determine Mr Ds requirements. And I have no reason to think Mr D couldnt have simply 
said no to the PPI if he had no interest in taking it. 
I also cant know how the salesperson explained the things not covered, but I cant see that 
Mr D wouldve been affected by any of these. Its not clear how the cost of the PPI was 
explained to Mr D  although the note shows the premium of £27.13 as having been quoted 
 but I dont think its likely that he would have agreed to take the PPI without some idea of 
the amount hed need to pay. And Ive no evidence to suggest the premium was 
unaffordable for him. 
Mr D told us that he wouldve been entitled to sick pay and redundancy pay from his 
employer, but didnt say how much he wouldve received. He also mentioned having had 
savings and investments he couldve relied on, but again didnt mention the amounts 
involved. The policy covered unemployment, so couldve paid out for up to 12 months in the 
event of Mr D being made redundant - which wouldve allowed him to use his savings and 
redundancy pay for his other everyday living expenses. In any case, I think Mr D could 
reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment that was secured on his home.
On balance, although I cant know whether Nationwide clearly explained all of the policy 
details, I think Mr D would still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided useful 
protection if hed lost his job. Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, as I can see he feels strongly 
about this, but my conclusion is that on the evidence I have, I cant fairly say the PPI was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman