DRN-2547602
The complaint
Mr T complains Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr T took out a £1,000 loan with Barclays in 1995 in a meeting at a branch. He also bought
whats called a single premium PPI policy. This type of PPI policy meant it had to be paid for
up front in one single payment. The PPI premium Mr T paid was just under £200. Both the
main loan and the PPI loan ran for 48 months.
The PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit that wouldve covered Mr Ts monthly loan
repayments for up to 12 months if he lost his job and for up to the length of the loan if he
couldnt work because of sickness or an accident.
Mr T says he was told the PPI was desirable, the inference being it was necessary to get
the loan. He says Barclays knew his banking and employment records but didnt take a risk
assessment.
In my provisional decision of 16 December 2020 I explained why I didnt intend to uphold   
Mr Ts complaint. Mr T doesnt accept my decision and has given me some comments on it. 
Barclays says it doesnt have anything to add. Mr Ts complaint has now come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ts complaint. In my decision, I said:
Our adjudicator said in her view that Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr T the PPI was
optional. I agree. She also said she didnt think there was enough evidence to show Barclays
had done this. Thats where I disagree, as Ill explain. 
We have a copy of Mr Ts signed and dated loan agreement. This clearly sets out details of
Mr Ts main loan of £1,000 and his loan to pay the PPI premium. Theres nothing in the loan
agreement itself to say the PPI is optional.
But Barclays says Mr T wouldve completed an application form before his loan agreement
was prepared. It doesnt have Mr Ts actual application form (which, after 25 years, I
wouldnt have expected it to keep). But it has sent us an eight-page information booklet
about Barclayloans, which it says was in use from just before Mr T took out his loan.
This booklet includes an application form for a Barclayloan. The application form has a
section for what is called Barclayloan Protection (that is, the PPI). This invites an applicant to
tick one of two options  either to take PPI or to decline it.
From what we know about Barclays process for branch sales of PPI at this time, I think its
likely Mr T wouldve filled in an application form like the one Ive just referred to. And it gives
a clear choice about PPI. Since theres no doubt PPI was added to Mr Ts loan account, I
think its likely he (or an adviser on his behalf) ticked the application form to say he wanted
PPI when he was applying for the loan, because thats what he wanted at the time.
Mr T says he remembers being told the PPI was desirable and perhaps necessary to get
the loan. And I think its very likely he had a conversation with an adviser in which the
desirability of protecting his loan was discussed. But this isnt enough to make me thinks its
likely he was denied a choice about it.
Ive also seen a letter sent by Barclays to Mr T which enclosed a copy of his loan agreement
and gave instructions about how he should sign it. This letter also refers to details about PPI
cover being included with the loan agreement, if you have taken Barclayloan Protection.
The use of the word if strongly suggests to me that PPI was optional at the time with loans
of this type. And it therefore strengthens my current view that its likely Mr T chose to have it
knowing he didnt have to.
So, on the information I have at the moment, I think its likely Barclays made it clear to Mr T
he had a choice about PPI and he agreed to have it  even though (and not surprisingly after
such a long time), this isnt how he remembers it.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mr Ts complaint but,
again based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think there are.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr T so it needed to make sure it was right for him
in his circumstances. There isnt enough information available from the time for me to know
what steps Barclays actually took to do this. And I know Mr T says Barclays didnt carry out a
risk assessment. But, from what Mr T says of his circumstances at the time, and the policy
details Ive got, I think the PPI was right for him. I say this because:
Mr T was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main
things the policy wouldnt have covered (like known medical conditions or unusual
employment arrangements). So there wouldve been nothing to stop Mr T claiming
the full policy benefit if hed needed to.
Mr T says he cant remember what sick pay hed have got but hed have been paid
for a long time. I dont think, though, this means the PPI wasnt right for him. Thats
because, if hed made a successful accident or sickness claim, the PPI wouldve paid
out on top of his sick pay  and potentially wouldve covered him for the life of the
loan. It would also have paid a benefit for up to 12 months if Mr T had lost his job. So
I think the PPI offered Mr T useful additional protection on top of his workplace
benefits.
Although its possible the PPI wouldnt have given Mr T a proportionate refund of his
premium if hed repaid his loan early and cancelled the policy, theres nothing to
suggest this was in his plans at the time. So although I think its unlikely Barclays
advised him about the policys cancellation terms, I dont think having this information
wouldve made a difference to Mr Ts decision to buy it.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mr T, Barclays also needed to give him enoughclear information about the policy for him to be able to make an informed decision about
whether he wanted.
Again, I dont know what steps Barclays took to do this. But I can see the cost of the PPI 
the amount of the loan, the interest on it and the total cost, as well as the monthly payment 
are shown on Mr Ts loan agreement. So I think this important information was clear.
And, as Ive already said, its my current view that Mr T is likely to have agreed to the PPI,
knowing he didnt have to  and that it was right for him in his circumstances. I think clearer
information about the PPI  if it had been needed  would only have confirmed this to Mr T
and so wouldnt have stopped him going ahead with it.
Mr T has responded to my provisional decision. He says in those days he felt under pressure 
to take out the PPI. He says he really needed the loan and could do nothing to make getting 
it less likely. And he says it was clear in the interview the expectation was that protection 
should be taken. 
I dont doubt the honesty of Mr Ts recollections. But the sale took place more than 25 years 
ago. And (unsurprisingly given the time thats passed) Mr T hasnt given us any information  
apart from his recollections  to show Barclays put him under unfair pressure to buy the PPI.
What Mr T has told us isnt enough on its own and without anything else to back it up for me 
to think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold his complaint on this point. I say this 
especially given the backdrop of what we know about Barclays usual sales process in 
branch meetings at this time, which Ive already described in my provisional decision.
Mr T also doesnt accept my provisional finding that the PPI was right for him. He says from 
1996 he never knowingly took out PPI because he realised it was expensive for the risks 
covered. And he says he was never disadvantaged by not having it (that is, he never 
defaulted on any loan repayments). So he says this means the PPI wasnt suitable for him.
But insurance is designed to protect against the unexpected. I dont think it follows that, 
because Mr T says he was never in a situation where hed have needed to make a claim, the 
PPI was therefore unsuitable for him. For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I 
dont think the PPI was unsuitable.
So Mr Ts comments dont change the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision, which 
now form part of this final decision. I dont think Barclays mis-sold him this PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman