DRN-2942303
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs R have complained about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited has 
recorded a claim against their motor insurance policy on a shared insurance database (the 
database).
Mr O is the principal policyholder and Mrs R is a named driver on the policy. Mrs R has 
taken the lead in dealing with this matter. So, for ease of reading, where I refer to her 
comments below those should be read as being in respect of both herself and Mr O.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs Rs horsebox was stolen while attached to her car. Mrs R claimed for its theft on her 
policy. Admiral said her policy didn't cover the theft of anything being towed. It recorded the 
claim on the database. 
After Mrs R insured her car with another insurer, the broker whod arranged the sale told 
Mrs R that Admiral's record of the theft had caused her insurance premium to rise from £680 
to around £3,300.
Mrs R complained to Admiral. Admiral said it had recorded the claim correctly and wasn't 
responsible for how other insurers calculate their premiums.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't think 
Admiral had done anything wrong. Mrs R didn't agree so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mrs R has also complained that Admiral turned down her claim for the theft of the horsebox. 
I've dealt with that under a different reference number; so I don't intend to comment on that 
complaint here. 
I can understand how frustrating Mrs R would find it to learn that a claim she isn't covered for 
is affecting her insurance premiums going forward. But that doesn't mean Admiral has done 
anything wrong. 
Like the majority of insurers I'm aware of Admiral has signed up to use and contribute to the 
database, which records insurance histories. And Admiral is obliged to record on it all 
reported incidents whether those lead to a claim or not. In this case Mrs R did make a claim 
and Admiral had to respond to it. So Admiral was required to record the claim on the 
database. Admiral recorded it as being a theft from the car, that it was notification only, 
that it didn't make any payment and that the claim didn't affect no claims discount (NCD) 
entitlement. That seems an accurate representation of what happened. That is Mrs R 
reported something stolen from her car but Admiral didn't pay anything out to settle the 
claim. So I think Admiral has recorded the incident fairly.
Insurance is essentially about risk assessment. That is insurers consider the likelihood of a 
potential policyholder making a claim, and the likely costs for those. And a person's 
insurance history, that is the claims theyve made or incidents theyve been involved in, will 
affect the risk that insurers believe individuals pose as potential policyholders. But each 
insurer will assess that risk in its own way. And I'm aware that some insurers will say that 
"notification only claims don't affect an individuals risk rating at all. But, for others, its the 
fact that an incident happened, regardless of whether the policyholder was at fault or even if 
they didn't make a claim, that affects the perception of risk. But thats for each individual 
insurer to decide. So it's not Admirals fault if other insurers consider that the claim for the 
theft of the horsebox means Mrs R is an increased risk as a policyholder.
Im aware that the increase in Mrs Rs premium has had a fairly dramatic effect on her ability 
to find affordable insurance, which has negatively affected other aspects of her life. But it 
was the theft itself thats had that effect rather than Admirals handling of it. I think it's also 
worth pointing out that, if Admiral had paid the claim for the theft, then it would have 
recorded it as a fault claim (because Admiral wouldn't have recovered its outlay from 
someone else). That fault claim would have likely affected Mrs Rs NCD entitlement and 
almost certainly increased the risk she posed to the majority of insurers, more than a 
notification only incident would.
So, while I have considerable sympathy for the position Mrs R finds herself in, I don't think 
Admiral has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman