DRN-3632038
The complaint
Ms A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has recorded her address 
incorrectly and has failed in its attempts to rectify the issue. 
What happened
Ms A is a long-time customer of NatWest. In May 2020 she moved address. However, 
having provided her new address to NatWest, it transpired that NatWests system was 
unable to record it correctly. This meant that bank statements and other correspondence, 
including replacement debit cards were going to an incorrect address. 
NatWest originally put a fix in place and credited Ms As account with £50 in compensation 
to recognise the inconvenience this had caused. However, the issue continued, so NatWest 
looked at it again. It advised there was an issue with its software, so it put another fix in 
place and credited Ms As account with another £50.
But Ms A remained unconvinced that the problem had been rectified so she came to our 
service. One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said she was happy the fix 
would work like NatWest said. But the issue happened again, and Ms A continued to 
encounter problems with her address. So, shes asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote to both parties last week and asked for further updated information. I indicated to 
both parties that I was considering an increase in the distress and inconvenience award due 
to the ongoing issues Ms A is having. Both parties have now responded so I will issue my 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
NatWest has acknowledged theres a problem with its IT system and the postcode 
keeps getting corrupted. It has advised there are two options. It says Ms A can 
remain as a customer, and it will manually check the address each month before a 
statement is issued to make sure its correct. Or, it has suggested that Ms A may 
need to change to another bank.
But Ms A doesnt want to change to another bank. Shes banked with NatWest since 
the 1980s and shes reluctant to change. Ms A wants an assurance there will be a 
permanent solution in a reasonable timescale.
Since our investigators last correspondence Ms A told me that as of 15 February 
2022 her postcode on the NatWest system has remained correct, bar one email she 
received in March which had the wrong postcode. She says the postcode has now 
been recorded correctly again, but now the first two lines of her address have been 
mixed up. 
NatWest has provided us with a screenshot of its system. As of yesterday, Ms As 
postcode is recorded correctly and I can see the address was last updated in March 
2022, which corresponds with what Ms A has told us. However, I note the first two 
lines of Ms As address have been inverted. 
Ms A says she hasnt asked NatWest to change the first two lines of the address, as 
its the postcode thats most important and shes afraid inverting the first two lines will 
cause further problems.
Its not my role to tell a bank what to do. However, it is my role to make sure the bank 
has done everything it can to resolve the situation fairly and reasonably for Ms A. So, 
I wont be telling NatWest to change its IT system. I just need to be satisfied NatWest 
is doing all it can. 
The system screenshot indicates the address has remained unchanged since March 
2022, and NatWest has confirmed it gets checked manually each month. So, I think 
NatWest has done all it can in this instance. Its not ideal, but to me it looks like 
theres a problem with how the IT system recognises the postcode. So even if the 
first two lines of the address remain inverted, Im satisfied NatWest has now done all 
it can, bar replacing its whole IT system to rectify the problem.
But, Im conscious of the time and effort Ms A has put into trying to rectify this issue. 
Im also conscious of the distress and inconvenience caused and that Ms A will still 
have to continue monitoring this issue. I note that it was through this continued 
monitoring that Ms A discovered a further issue in March 2022, even after NatWest 
told us it had a fix in place.
As a service we consider whether compensation is appropriate in each case. For us 
to make an award we'd need to see that the impact of a business's mistake was 
more than someone would expect to experience as part of everyday life.
If an error has caused more than the levels of frustration and annoyance you might 
reasonably expect from day-to-day life, and the impact has been more than just 
minimal such as a single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort or a few weeks to sort 
out, then an award between £100 and £300 is considered fair.
NatWest has admitted theres a problem, and it has put a fix in place. And I know that 
Ms A could change her banking provider. But thats a lot of inconvenience and 
besides Ms A doesnt want to move bank. 
But even though NatWest has already given Ms A £100 to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, I dont think NatWest has awarded Ms A 
enough. Especially given that its likely the issues will be ongoing and theres the 
likelihood that Ms A will need to remain engaged with NatWest. 
Getting a permanent fix for this issue is out of my hands. But because of the ongoing 
nature of the situation Im recommending NatWest pays Ms A an additional £150 
(£250 in total) for the inconvenience she is suffering. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require National Westminster Bank 
Plc to:
Pay a further £150 in compensation (£250 in total) for the inconvenience Ms A is 
suffering as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman