DRN-4332754
The complaint
Miss M complains about St Andrew's Insurance Plc, referred to as St Andrews or the 
business. 
In short, she is unhappy about the pay-out she received in response to a claim.  
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
In October 2002, Miss M was advised to take out a level term assurance (LTA) policy 
with Critical Insurance Cover (CIC) referred to as the 2002 policy  by a third party 
business  with a £46,000 sum assured, and £46,000 worth of CIC, due to expire in 
October 2027. 
The key policy documentation made clear the following:
oWe will make one payment of either Life Cover benefit or Critical Illness 
benefit included in this policy. Once we have made a payment of either Life 
Cover benefit or Critical Illness benefit, all Life Cover and Critical Illness 
Cover included in this plan will end. 
oBecause the CIC claim value of £46,000 has already been paid, no further 
claim will be considered under this policy.  
In December 2007 a decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy with CIC  referred to 
as the 2007 policy  was set up. The nature and operation of the policy was made 
clear in the key policy documentation:
oYour plan is a decreasing term assurance and so your life cover benefit and 
or/critical illness benefit will reduce each plan year throughout the term
Whilst Miss M says that she didnt receive any policy documentation regarding the 
2007 policy  so wasnt aware that it was arranged on a decreasing cover basis  
she ought to have queried this when the policy started. 
Any concerns she has regarding the medical report being sent to St Andrews she 
should take up with her doctor. This isnt something that she can blame the business 
for. 
St Andrews hasnt done anything wrong by making the payment that it has.  
Miss M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she made the following key points:
Having viewed the documentation provided by the investigator, she still doesnt 
agree. 
The original document  titled Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) conditions 
April 2002, referred to as the 2002 TMPP document  is different to the one referred 
to by the investigator. 
Shes not convinced that her submissions have been considered by the investigator. 
At no point in 2022 did she contact the TMPP administration. She spoke to a 
mortgage adviser over the telephone, in relation to changing the mortgage from 
variable rate to a fixed rate. Her queries were dealt with, and matters went no further. 
She didnt contact St Andrews until January 2023, which was about the £69,000 
insurance policy and her original policy taken out in 2002. 
In August 2023 she received the letter dated October 2002 (via the investigator)  it 
was the first time she saw it, and the amended version of the policy. It contains 
inconsistent information including inaccurate calculations. 
St Andrews has fabricated information to convince our service that it didnt do 
anything wrong. 
The following disclaimer wasnt in the original document: 
o" We will make one payment of either Life Cover benefit or Critical Illness 
benefit included in this policy. Once we have made a payment of either Life 
Cover benefit or Critical Illness benefit, all Life Cover and Critical Illness 
Cover included in this plan will end. Please refer to 'Your Plan Summary' 
above which outlines your current cover and benefits."
oThe original document from 2002 doesnt contain that statement.  
The investigator mentions the Illustration document from August 2002 but not the 
original policy document dated September 2002. 
The documentation provided by her, including documents dated September and 
October 2002  make clear that the October document isnt genuine  the style and 
font is all different  and for that reason she wont accept it.   
She also never received the 2007 policy booklet. But when she made the mortgage 
enquiry in April 2002, she was told that she had a second policy worth £69,000. 
She doesnt understand why the 2007 policy was taken out  therell be evidence, 
including written and audio thatll clarify what happened. 
Despite what the investigator says, she didnt have an issue with her GP. Its clear 
that the investigator is biased. St Andrews is trying to mask the fact that it has 
consistently played dirty by shrinking the authorised medical consent form, which 
prevents my GP from forwarding my medical records, until I viewed them.
The investigator held her liable for not receiving the booklet, and not commenting on 
whether the policy was decreasing. How could she disagree with something she was 
unaware of? The bank only started taking money for the policy in 2011, and not in 
2007. 
The investigator has chosen to prefer St Andrews evidence. By not refereeing to the 
evidence submitted by her the investigator has caused her distress which has 
impacted upon her impairment/disability.
If hed considered the documents referred to, he wouldve mentioned them.  
She might be undergoing medical treatment once the case has been allocated to an 
ombudsman, so shed appreciate patience.   
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss M says, I cant safely say 
that St Andrews has done anything wrong by not paying the life cover sum assured in response to a successful claim already made (and paid) under the CIC element of the 2002 
policy. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Miss Ms strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry for recent 
health challenges she is facing and the recent loss shes suffered. I appreciate this must be 
a difficult time for her. 
Miss M has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Miss N and St Andrews, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. I dont need 
any further evidence to make my decision.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, on a balance of probabilities whats more 
likely than not to have happened.
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
I note Miss M was sold the TMPP by a third-party business, and she chose life cover 
and CIC as the two cover options she wished to have. I note its recorded that she 
didnt have any mortgage/life cover at the time. I note Miss M also says that the 
policy was a condition of her mortgage. But regardless of whether or not it was, I 
cant consider the suitability of the recommendation in a complaint against the 
provider. 
On balance, Im not persuaded that Miss M wouldnt have received the key policy 
documentation for the 2002 policy.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what she says about counterfeit 
documentation, Im satisfied that the key documentation from the time wouldve made 
clear the nature and operation of the policy. 
Based on what the investigator says, I note it made clear that it would make one 
single payment  either under the life cover element or the CIC element of the policy 
 in response to a successful claim, and then the policy would end. 
I appreciate Miss M seeks to make a distinction between the Illustration and what she 
describes as the policy documentation  but I think the key policy taken collectively, 
makes clear the position. 
oOn balance, Im satisfied that Miss M therefore knew, or ought reasonably to 
have known, that she would receive only a single payout in response to a 
successful claim, after which the policy would end. 
oIn other words, upon a successful claim she would receive a single total 
payment for £46,000 for either life cover or CIC and not a total payment of 
£92,000. 
oThats not how Life and CIC policies are generally designed to operate, and 
Ive seen nothing to suggest this one was, or that it has been amended to pay 
out £92,000  its not entirely clear why Miss M thinks that it was.  
oIve seen no evidence that she was told or led to believe that this would be 
the case. In other words, I cant blame the business for what she thought 
would be the case because its not based on any evidence.   oDespite what Miss M says, this isnt evidence of St Andrews taking advantage 
of her health situation and deliberately blurring the line between its aims and 
her entitlement.  
In the circumstances, St Andrews isnt obliged to consider any further application 
regarding the policy and hasnt done anything wrong by refusing to do so.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss M says I cant safely 
say that St Andrews hasnt administered the policy in the way that it was designed to. 
In other words, unless it specifically agreed at the outset, that it will honour two 
claims  so that its obliged to  it had no obligation to do so. I would also point out 
such policies dont generally exist. 
Despite what Miss M says, I think its more likely than not she took out the 2007 
policy but cant recall the details of this happening. This may explain why she still 
wants a greater payout, over and above what shes already been paid.   
On balance, I think its more likely than not, Miss M was supplied with key policy 
documentation after the 2007 policy was taken out.  
oIn other words, despite what she says, I think its more likely than that she did 
receive key policy documentation setting out the nature and operation of the 
policy, but its possible that she didnt read them or misplaced them. 
oI note St Andrews says that a policy schedule was sent on 2 January 2008 
with all the cover details. On balance I think this is probably what happened. 
oIm mindful that she wouldve being paying premiums form her bank account 
and therefore wouldve known and ought reasonably to have questioned any 
matters that werent clear to her and/or didnt make sense.   
I think it was made clear that the policy was a decreasing term policy in which the life 
cover and CIC would reduce in line with the outstanding borrowed amount each year. 
I note the DTA policy started in December 2007 and was due to end in December 
2032, before a claim was made and paid. It seems that this policy commenced in line 
with a further advance on her mortgage in December 2007. I note she says that in 
January 2008, she took out a loan for home improvements, so its likely that the two 
are linked. I note she also said:
oThe only changes to my Mortgage during December 2007-2008 were that I 
made an application for a loan of approximately £12000 which was issued in 
2008.
Despite what Miss M says about her employment status, and financial circumstances 
at the time, its unlikely that the policy wouldve or couldve been initiated without her 
authority. 
I should also make clear that the 2007 policy is a totally separate policy to the 2002 
policy, taken out at a separate point in time in relation to a separate borrowing. 
Despite Miss Ms concerns, the 2007 policy isnt a substitute for the 2002 policy 
which is wholly different. 
Despite what Miss M says, I dont agree that theres been an element of deception 
deployed by the business in this instance.
I note on the one hand Miss M says she doesnt recall taking out the DTA but on the 
other hand shed like the policy to pay out £69,000  as per the figure quoted in an 
email to her dated April 2022. But on the face of the available evidence, Im satisfied 
that this is a mistake. 
In other words, in terms of the £69,000, on balance Im satisfied that there was a 
typo, and the correct figure was considerably lower, in line with the subsequent 
explanation offered by the business. This doesnt mean that Miss M is entitled to the 
incorrect figure. Despite what Miss M says, I dont agree that her policy has been 
devalued just because it was set up on a decreasing basis. 
Im mindful of Miss Ms concerns about the medical report/evidence, Im aware she 
ticked the box saying that she wants to see the medical report before it is sent to the 
business. The obligation was therefore on her doctor to ensure that this happened  unless 21 days had passed without Miss M not contacting the doctor about seeing it. 
Despite what Miss M says about the form it seems she had an opportunity to see 
some of the information before it was passed to St Andrews. I note Miss M said:
oOn 30 March 2023, staff from my GP practice called me, as they were about 
to mail out the GP's response to the TMPP Administration unit. I went in the 
following day and was able to look at the medical information before it was 
sent off but was not able to meet the GP before he completed the response. 
Halifax TMPP Admin Unit had reduced the size of the medical authorisation 
form, which was a distraction as the staff could barely see that I wanted to 
see the medical information before it was sent off, none-the-less, I was able 
to view the medical information, and asked the GP staff for a copy of the 
information before they returned the medical information to the insurance 
company.
If Miss M remains unhappy with how this issue was dealt with, its something that she 
can raise with her doctor at the first instance. Its not something that I can hold St 
Andrews responsible for. 
Im mindful of Miss M concerns about fabrication of key policy documentation. 
Despite what she says, Ive seen no evidence that this was the case.
I appreciate that Miss M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate her frustration, I cant safely say that St Andrews have behaved unreasonably. 
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant uphold this 
complaint and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman