DRN-4111171
The complaint
Mr S complains that Topaz Finance Limited  trading as Rosinca Mortgages recorded 
incorrect information on his credit file. As a result he said he was unable to remortgage.
What happened
Mr S has a number of buy-to-let mortgages with Rosinca. Hed agreed payment holidays on 
the mortgages. But Rosinca incorrectly recorded one of the mortgages as being in arrears. 
Mr S considers that he was unable to remortgage because of the incorrect information. He 
also said that Rosinca took too long to respond to his complaint and it had written to him at a 
wrong address.
The investigator thought Rosincas offer of £200 was fair. He said that there were other more 
serious markers on his credit file that would have affected his ability to remortgage in any 
event. Mr S did not accept what the investigator said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Rosinca recorded incorrect information on Mr Ss credit file. Where a 
business has made a mistake we try and put the affected party in the position they would 
have been in had the mistake not occurred. 
The difficulty here is that the evidence we have shows that there was other adverse 
information on Mr Ss credit file  not just the information recorded in error by Rosinca. I am 
not persuaded that Mr S would have been able to remortgage but for the adverse 
information recorded by Rosinca. Therefore I dont consider it should compensate Mr S for 
any financial loss in not being able to remortgage. 
Ive considered the evidence Mr S provided from his broker. But I dont consider it helps his 
case. It merely shows that there were other pieces of adverse information on his credit file 
that needed to be removed before the broker would even submit an application. That is not 
sufficient evidence that the application had any prospect of success.
I understand that the letters Rosinca sent to the wrong address were an acknowledgment 
and holding letter. Id note that I cant make a finding that there has been a breach of data 
protection law. But there has clearly been a breach of Mr Ss confidentiality and Rosinca 
ought to have taken more care to write to the correct address. But we have no evidence 
those letters were actually opened by someone else And if they had been they contained no 
sensitive or financial information. 
Rosinca has offered Mr S £200. I think that is a fair amount to reflect the inconvenience and 
worry he experienced when he discovered the incorrect information on his credit file and in 
sending letters to the wrong address based on what Mr S has told us and Rosinca about the 
impact of those matters on him. I accept that Mr S experienced a great deal of stress 
because he couldnt remortgage and Rosinca contributed to that. But I think it is difficult for 
me to say Rosincas error was the only reason for that stress. In the circumstances, I dont 
consider it needs to do any more. 
I note Mr S is unhappy about the length of time it took Rosinca to respond to his complaint. 
But under the relevant rules, it had eight weeks to do so. So I cant say that it delayed 
responding to his complaint.
My final decision
Topaz Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages has made an offer of £200 to settle 
this complaint, that offer is still open and I consider it a fair way to resolve the complaint.
My final decision is that Topaz Finance Limited  trading as Rosinca Mortgages should pay 
Mr S £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman