DRN-3566859
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wouldnt lend them 
money so they could buy a new property. They said it had turned them down because of 
their credit scores, but they thought those scores were good.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L said that they had asked Halifax to lend them money so they could buy a new 
home. They intended to sell their current home, use some of that money to clear some 
debts, and some of the money as a deposit for their new house. They said they would also 
clear their old mortgage with Halifax. 
Mr and Mrs L said Halifax turned them down for the lending, although they wanted less than 
four times Mr Ls annual salary, and they wanted to borrow less than half the cost of their 
new house. They said Halifax had turned them down because of their credit score, but they 
said Mr Ls score was good, and Mrs Ls score was excellent. They wanted Halifax to give 
them an unconditional mortgage offer.
Mr L said when he spoke to Halifax, it said that the problem might be that Mr L had missed 
two payments on his mortgage in the last year. Mr L said this was more than six months ago, 
and hed missed the payments by just two days, because his mortgage payments came out 
a couple of days before he gets his salary paid. 
Halifax said its mortgage applications do use credit scoring, and it was because of the 
results of its own credit scoring that Halifax wouldnt lend to Mr and Mrs L. Halifax told us 
that when it credit scores, it looks at all the things it can see on Mr and Mrs Ls credit reports, 
like all the borrowing they have, how long theyve had that borrowing for, as well as 
considering what they want to borrow now. Halifax said that a credit score fail didnt mean it 
had received any adverse information from credit reference agencies or that the customers 
were bad payers, they just didnt meet the banks risk profile at the time of the application.
Halifax didnt think it had made a mistake, and it wouldnt change its mind. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Halifax has its own 
way of working out how much it would lend to someone, and it doesnt have to share the full 
details of that. Here, it had decided not to lend to Mr and Mrs L. Our investigator had looked 
at how Halifax had assessed this application, and she thought it had treated Mr and Mrs L 
fairly. She understood that Mr and Mrs L were existing customers and they felt Halifax 
should have accepted this application, but they were seeking to borrow more than on their 
existing mortgage, so Halifax did have to do checks. 
Mr and Mrs L thought our investigator had misunderstood, they didnt want to borrow more 
on their existing mortgage, they wanted a new one. Our investigator said she understood 
that, but they were looking to borrow a little more than their existing mortgage, so Halifax 
would still do checks. 
Mr and Mrs L wanted someone else to consider their complaint, so it came to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr L says that what he wants to borrow is well below the usual multiples that banks quote 
when they indicate how much they might lend to someone. But unfortunately the tests that 
banks carry out to decide on lending arent quite as straightforward as that. 
Halifax does have to carry out quite detailed checks whenever someone wants to take out a 
new mortgage, or move an existing mortgage to a new home and add a little more lending. 
So although Mr L stressed this would be a new mortgage, and he would pay back the old 
one, that doesnt make a difference in this case. 
Halifax said that Mr L and Mrs L failed on its credit scoring. Mr and Mrs L say their credit 
scores with a credit reference agency are high, and theyve shown us evidence of this. But 
when Halifax does its own credit scoring, it doesnt just look at the scores that the agency 
provides. Rather, it looks at all the underlying information thats visible on their credit file. So 
it weighs up for itself things like the total lending that Mr and Mrs L have, and how long Mr 
and Mrs L have had that lending, which our investigator mentioned. It then comes up with its 
own score. This is the score that Mr and Mrs L were unsuccessful on.
Broadly speaking, Halifax is allowed to assess the risks of lending to Mr and Mrs L for itself. 
It has explained that different banks assess this in different ways, so a different bank may be 
happy to lend to Mr and Mrs L, but it says it wont do so. I dont think that Halifax has been 
unfair or unreasonable in the assessment it has done, and the way in which its lending 
criteria have been applied. So I dont think it would be appropriate in this case for me to tell 
Halifax it must lend to Mr and Mrs L. And that means, although I know that Mr and Mrs L will 
be disappointed, I dont think their complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman