DRN-3025299
The complaint
 Mr H is unhappy with how FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd dealt with the voluntary 
termination of his hire purchase agreement with them. 
What happened
 On 20 February 2017 Mr H was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
FCA. He paid a deposit of £200, and the agreement was for £9,863 over 48 months, with 47 
monthly payments of £150.40, and a final optional payment of £4,435 if Mr H wanted to 
purchase the car. 
In April 2020, Mr H asked to voluntarily terminate the agreement. FCA said he could, but he 
still needed to pay £87.60 in order to meet the requirements for early termination. FCA then 
cancelled the direct debit and told him that the outstanding balance would be payable when 
the car was returned. They also told him to ignore any letters chasing him for the outstanding 
balance, as they couldnt stop these being sent out.
Mr H tried to arrange to return the car. But, because of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, 
FCA werent immediately able to collect the car. And it wasnt collected until 21 August 2020. 
But, because the £87.60 remained outstanding while the car was waiting to be collected, 
FCA reported this to the credit reference agencies. And they defaulted his account.
Mr H complained to FCA and they updated the credit file and removed the default. But Mr H 
wasnt happy  his mortgage deal had come to an end while the default was showing on his 
credit file, and hed had to renew this on a higher interest rate as a result. So he brought his 
complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Mr H asked FCA on 23 April 2020 how he could pay the outstanding 
balance, and they told him this wouldnt need to be paid until the car had been collected. So 
he said that FCA shouldnt have defaulted the account. But he thought theyd acted 
reasonably by removing the default and correcting Mr Hs credit file.
The investigator also said that Mr H was inconvenienced by the default, but he hadnt seen 
any evidence that Mr Hs mortgage rate (and payments) has been affected solely because of 
this default. But he did think Mr H had been caused some months of worry because of the 
default being registered. So he thought that FCA should pay Mr H £100 to compensate him 
for the impact of their error.
FCA accepted the investigators view, but Mr H didnt. He thought that the default was the 
sole reason why hes paying more for his mortgage, and he provided copies of his credit file 
when the default was registered and after itd been removed, to show the impact this had. 
He thought there was no other reasonable conclusion that could be reached than the default 
being the sole reason for his higher mortgage payments, and he asked for an ombudsman to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
FCA wrote to Mr H on 22 April 2020, telling him he needed to: pay £87.60. This is to satisfy 
the requirement to pay half of the total amount due on your agreement and is payable 
immediately. Mr H emailed the following day, asking how to pay the £87.60, and saying I 
will make that payment today.
In reply FCA explained the car couldnt currently be collected due to Covid-19 restrictions. 
They also said we have cancelled your direct debit to avoid any further monthly installment 
[sic] from being debited, if you have any contractual amounts these will be detailed in the 
letter you receive after inspection and you can look to make the payment at such time.
As the direct debit has been cancelled it is likely you will receive arrears letters or SMS 
messages. Please disregard these, we cannot suppress these on our system.
Based on this, Im satisfied that Mr H tried to make the final payment and was told not to until 
after the car had been collected, and any additional charges had been invoiced. Im also 
satisfied that he was told to ignore any arrears letters he received, which would include any 
default notices.
Given the above, I dont think FCA acted reasonably by defaulting Mr Hs account before the 
car has been collected, and before theyd sent him the post-collection inspection letter. And 
if they hadnt already corrected Mr Hs credit file by removing the default, I would be asking 
them to do this.
Putting things right
 Mr H has also explained the impact of the default on his mortgage and finance for a 
replacement car. Hes provided two copies of his credit file  one from 27 August 2020 and 
the other from 3 September 2020. These show that the default registered by FCA on 27 April 
2020 was still showing in August 2020 but had been removed by September 2020. And his 
credit score from the credit reference agency was Very Poor in August 2020 and Excellent 
in September 2020. However, lenders dont normally consider the credit score itself, and 
instead consider whats actually contained within the credit file before making a decision.
Mr H believes the above difference in his credit score, which I agree was highly likely as a 
result of the default, resulted in him getting a worse deal for his remortgage and car finance. 
While Ive seen the contents of his credit file, I havent seen anything from the finance 
providers saying that, if it wasnt for the default, Mr H wouldve received a different deal that 
wouldve resulted in different/lower payments. Without this evidence, I cant speculate what 
mightve happened, and ask FCA to compensate Mr H accordingly.But I am satisfied that the default shouldnt have been registered. And having this on his 
credit file wouldve caused Mr H some distress and worry. Hes said that he found out about 
the default on 20 August 2020, and (as shown by the credit files hes provided) the default 
had been removed by no later than 3 September 2020. So Im satisfied that this period of 
distress and worry was limited to around two weeks. And Im also satisfied that the £100 
recommended by the investigator for this period is fair in the circumstances.
So, FCA should pay Mr H an additional £100 to compensate him for the impact of the default 
being recorded against him in error.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman