DRN-3388924
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited settled a claim under his car insurance 
policy without telling him. Hes unhappy that he lost the number of years No Claims Discount 
(NCD) hed accrued as a result of the claim.
What happened
Aviva received a claim from a third party for damage to a vehicle they said had been caused 
by Mr Bs car in an incident in December 2019.
Aviva wrote to Mr B in December 2019 and March 2020 and tried to call him. As it didnt hear 
from him, it settled the third party claim on a without prejudice basis. 
Mr B said he became aware of the claim at renewal in September 2021 when his policy 
documents showed his NCD had reduced which he was unhappy about. Mr B said he didnt 
receive anything from Aviva about the claim. He said he wasnt given the opportunity to 
defend the claim. 
Aviva replied to Mr Bs complaints in September (about the reduction in NCD) and October 
2021 (about the claim). It didnt uphold them. Aviva said it had settled the claim and reduced 
the NCD correctly and in line with the policy.  
Mr B asked us to look at his complaints. He said Aviva told him during a call that it would 
resolve his complaint to his satisfaction which he understood meant it would reinstate his 
NCD. 
Our Investigator thought Aviva hadnt done anything wrong. Aviva provided a recording of a 
call where Mr B discussed his complaint. After listening to the call, she didnt find that Aviva 
had promised to reinstate the NCD. 
Mr B didnt agree. He believes there must be another call recording. Mr B wants an 
ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. 
When Aviva received a claim from a third party in December 2019, its claim notes show it 
tried to call Mr B in December 2019 and again in March 2020 to discuss the incident and 
claim. It also wrote to Mr B in December 2019 and March 2020. In its second letter, Aviva 
said if it didnt hear from Mr B in the next seven days it would settle the third partys claim on 
the best terms possible in line with the policy. 
Mr Bs policy with Aviva has a very common term which says it can settle a claim in Mr Bs 
name. 
The circumstances of the claim are that Mr B pulled out from a side road and collided with 
another car that was correctly proceeding on the main road. Mr B says he remembers a 
minor collision with another vehicle. Irrespective of how major or minor the incident was, 
Avivas recording of the claim as a fault claim wouldnt change. I think it made reasonable 
attempts to contact Mr B before deciding to settle the claim as it did. I note that it settled the 
claim on a without prejudice basis. So if Mr B wished to pursue the matter separately he 
can do this. He may need to seek legal advice about that. 
Under Avivas policy, it explains how the (non-protected) NCD will reduce in the event of a 
fault claim. It says that if a fault claim is recorded where the NCD years are five or more, it 
will reduce to three years at the next renewal. Aviva did reduce the NCD years to three at 
the renewal date in September 2020 and the renewal documents showed this reduction. So I 
find that Aviva treated Mr B fairly and as it would any other customer in the same position. 
I havent seen any evidence to show Aviva agreed to reinstate Mr Bs NCD.
I understand Mr B will be disappointed with my decision. But from what Ive seen, I think 
Aviva has acted reasonably and in line with the policy. So Im not asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman