DRN-3760396
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not adjust the amount of a second 
charge it holds on their property to a nominal amount, to enable drawdown of a new 
mortgage with a different lender. They also complain that the lending they hold with HSBC is 
unaffordable.
What happened
In November 2004, Mrs and Mr G borrowed from HSBC to assist with the purchase of a 
property. The lending was secured with a legal charge over two properties owned by Mrs 
and Mr G. Mrs and Mr G intended to convert the property they had purchased into separate 
units and repay the loan from the sale of some of the units. This loan was due to be repaid in 
full by June 2005.
Between 2005 and 2006 Mrs and Mr G began to experience some financial difficulties as the 
conversion of the property was behind schedule. Following discussions with HSBC, they 
were granted an overdraft facility to assist them with covering their interest repayments on 
this loan. HSBC issued a formal demand for the debt to be repaid in February 2011.
In addition, Mrs and Mr G have an interest only mortgage with another lender which has 
expired and is now due to be repaid. They wanted to settle this mortgage by applying for a 
re-mortgage. They have been offered a mortgage by another bank (the other bank) 
however the other bank is not willing to proceed with its offer due to Mrs and Mr Gs 
outstanding debt and the size of the charge held by HSBC.
Mrs and Mr G contacted HSBC in early January 2022 explaining the situation and asking 
HSBC to either remove the charge it holds on their property or agree to a deed of 
postponement. HSBC acknowledged Mrs and Mr Gs situation and agreed to the deed of 
postponement in February 2022. Mrs and Mr G continued to correspond with HSBC in an 
attempt to get them to reduce the amount of the charge in order to meet the other banks 
requirements. They also complained that the lending was unaffordable.
HSBC responded to the complaint saying the loan was granted based on the information 
Mrs and Mr G had provided to them at the time of the application and there was nothing to 
indicate that Mrs and Mr G would not be in a position to meet the repayments. With regard to 
Mrs and Mr Gs request for the redemption figure or charge to be reduced to a nominal 
amount, HSBC said this was not commercially feasible as there was a possibility the bank 
would be committed to the reduced amount on a permanent basis. 
HSBC didnt comment on all the issues Mrs and Mr G raised as some of the issues had 
previously been the subject of a complaint considered by our service, on which an 
ombudsman has already given a final decision.
Mrs and Mr G were unhappy with HSBCs response, so they brought their complaint to us. 
Mrs G told us they would like HSBC to do the following in order to resolve the matter:
Agree to either remove its charge completely or reduce it to a nominal sum so the re-
mortgage with the other bank can go ahead. The nominal sum could always be 
increased at a later date - after the mortgage has completed with the other bank. 
Refund the interest and charges pertaining to the second charge as the lending is 
unaffordable.
Refund the difference between their current mortgage payments and the proposed 
new mortgage payments with the other bank for the length of time it has taken to 
resolve the matter.
Make them an ex gratia payment for the stress the whole situation has caused them 
over the years.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He thought HSBC had abided by the terms 
and conditions of its agreement with Mrs and Mr G and that it had taken reasonable steps to 
try and assist them with the matter. So, he didnt think HSBC needed to take any action.
Mrs and Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case was passed 
to me to decide. In response to our investigators view Mrs G said:
Whilst she could see some logic in the investigators response, HSBC took too long 
to investigate and negotiate the matter.
Because of this, the monthly repayments would now be more than double what was 
originally offered by the other bank.
The lending is unaffordable if they are never going to be able to afford to repay it.
HSBC has subjected them to incredibly stressful financial and mental hardship 
because of its lack of customer service and care to two highly vulnerable and elderly 
people.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the issues Mrs and Mr G have described in their submissions to 
our service. They have clearly experienced very challenging and difficult circumstances in 
the last few years. 
Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint. So, while I may not comment on everything raised, Ive thoroughly 
read and considered all the evidence and arguments from both sides. Having done so, Im 
sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr G but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ive explained my 
reasons below.
Unaffordable lending 
As a final decision was previously issued by one of our ombudsman addressing some 
aspects that fall under unaffordable lending and the actions HSBC took when Mrs and Mr G 
found themselves in financial difficulties, I am limited as to what I can look into here. So, I will 
only comment on the claim of unaffordable lending in relation to the original loan in 2004.
Having reviewed the information available to me, I have not found any reason to think that HSBC made any error in agreeing to the original lending. The information available to it at 
the time, and provided by Mrs and Mr G, indicated they were in a position to meet the 
repayments until the units were converted and sold the following year - at which stage the 
loan would be repaid in full. 
HSBC provided Mrs and Mr G with the terms of the loan, including the amount of security it 
would take against the lending. Mrs and Mr G accepted these terms and drew down the 
loan.
 
Ive not seen any evidence that the lending was unaffordable at the time the agreement was 
entered into or that there were any concerns about the repayments on either partys behalf. 
So, while I know this will disappoint Mrs and Mr G, I am not persuaded that HSBCs actions 
were inappropriate based on the information it had available to it at that time.
Second charge and customer service
Mrs and Mr G contacted HSBC in January 2022 and asked it to either adjust the amount of 
the charge it holds on their property to a nominal amount to enable drawdown of a new 
mortgage with the other bank; or to agree to a deed of postponement. 
HSBC agreed to the deed of postponement in February 2022, meaning it now holds a 
second charge over the property. It agreed not to take any legal action while negotiations 
were ongoing with the other bank and arranged an interest discount to reduce the 
outstanding debt in an effort to assist Mrs and Mr G to meet the other banks requirements.
I can understand Mrs Gs argument about the current value of the property the charge is 
against and how HSBC is unlikely to benefit from any sale. However, HSBC are entitled to 
make a commercial decision and it would not be appropriate for me to interfere with HSBCs 
decision. Although they might not be able to recoup their losses as it stands, there is nothing 
to say for sure that the circumstances might change in the future, including a rise in the 
valuation of the property the charge is against. So, I cant say HSBC have done anything 
wrong for wanting to protect their interests. 
Id expect to see that HSBC treated Mrs and Mr G in a sympathetic manner, particularly 
given their personal circumstances. Unfortunately, being in financial difficulty doesnt mean 
the bank doesnt have the right to actively seek recovery of the funds owed to it or to ensure 
protection of its interests. From what Ive seen, HSBC has taken reasonable steps to assist 
Mrs and Mr G in meeting the requirements of the other bank. However, if the other bank is 
refusing to proceed with its offer, HSBC is not responsible for the actions of the other bank.
There was no requirement for HSBC to agree to the deed of postponement or the reduction 
in interest, so I cant say it was responsible for the other bank not proceeding with their offer. 
In any case, it appears that HSBC took action in an effort to assist Mrs and Mr G with their 
circumstances. 
I can see there were some crossed wires in terms of communication while this negotiation 
was ongoing, however Mrs and Mr G had contacted a number of different people in quick 
succession, including HSBCs CEOs office, in relation to their situation. I think this led to 
confusion as to who was responding however, I havent seen anything on file to indicate that 
HSBC were deliberately obstructive about the request or caused any intentional delays.
As a result, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask HSBC to cover the 
difference between the mortgage repayments had the agreement with the other bank 
proceeded.  Conclusion
So, to conclude, I havent seen anything to indicate that HSBC has treated Mrs and Mr G 
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint. I truly empathise with the 
situation they have found themselves in, but for the reasons Ive explained above, I wont be 
asking HSBC to take any further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman