DRN-2110163
The complaint
Mr R applied to surrender his investment with Phoenix Life Limited. He says he was told the 
units had been sold and he would receive the money in a few days. Phoenix Life have 
suspended the fund and Mr R has not received his money.
What happened
Mr R has a policy which is now with Phoenix Life. This is invested in a property fund. The 
terms of the policy set out how the value of the policy would be calculated if the policyholder 
applied to surrender it. The policy conditions also referred to special circumstances where 
the actuary had discretion to make adjustments to the benefits under the policy. 
On 19 March 2020 Mr R called Phoenix Life to surrender his investment in the property fund. 
He remembers being told the units had been sold and he would receive £8,512.03. And this 
would take up to seven working days to reach his account. On 3 April when he called 
Phoenix Life to chase the payment, he was told the property fund had been suspended on 
23 March. Because of this he would not receive the money until the fund was no longer 
suspended.
There were a number of telephone calls between Mr R and Phoenix Life following the 
suspension of the fund. The fund had actually been suspended on 19 March, but Phoenixs 
call handlers hadnt been informed of this until 23 March. Mr R complained about not being 
paid the surrender value. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She explained the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules allowing firms to suspend trading in 
funds. As independent property valuers could not accurately value the properties within the 
fund, the FCA thought it was reasonable for fund managers to suspend the fund in order to 
be fair to all investors in the fund.
However, the investigator thought Phoenix Life could have provided information to Mr R 
about the suspension of the fund. She recommended Phoenix Life pay some compensation 
to Mr R for the poor communication.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of the policy Mr R has with Phoenix Life allow for the fund to be suspended in 
special circumstances. In my view, it was reasonable for the fund to be suspended in the 
current pandemic, which has made it difficult to value the properties in the fund. I am 
satisfied the units in Mr Rs fund had not been sold. The suspension of the fund has not yet 
been lifted. Unfortunately, Mr R will have to wait for the suspension to be lifted before the 
money can be paid to him.
I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed he is not able to access his money at this time, but the 
suspension is allowed under the terms of the policy. It is required to be fair to all of the 
investors in the fund.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that the service provided to Mr R could have been better. I think 
Mr R was given the impression he would receive the funds shortly after he gave instructions 
to sell his investment. I do not think Phoenix Life explained why they were entitled to 
suspend the fund. I think this must have been very disappointing for him. In my view, 
Phoenix Life should pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the errors.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mr R £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by their errors.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Roy Milne
Ombudsman