DRN-3693099
The complaint
Mr S complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr S with a loan of £3,000 on 5 January 2019, repayable over 24 
months at the monthly rate of £235.87. Mr S got into difficulties over repayment, and 
effectively he couldnt make any payments after April 2019, the payments made failed or 
were returned. The loan was sold to a third party in September 2019. He complained to 118 
118 Money about irresponsible lending.
118 118 Money said it reviewed his application which contained details of his income and 
expenditure and used standard industry verification checks to validate that information. It 
also carried out a credit check and used the amounts disclosed from that along with 
reasonable average expenditure figures. It assessed that the loan was affordable, at the time 
of the application.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that based on the 
evidence submitted so far, he thought the loan was both affordable and suitable for Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he had adverse credit, missed payments and some defaults. He 
also said his income was less than his outgoings and hed never been asked for any 
evidence of income. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that 118 118 Money had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
The credit report obtained by 118 118 Money at the time of Mr Ss application showed that 
he had two credit cards with total balances of £920, two mail order accounts with total 
balances of £594, and a credit sale with £338 outstanding. The only active account with 
payments missed was one of the credit cards with a £195 balance. I also see that Mr S had 
had a Hire Purchase (HP) loan on which hed recently missed payments but that been paid 
off in full the month before his application to 118 118 Money by, he tells us, his partner.
It's important to note that these loans arent generally for people with good credit records. So 
it should be expected that there might be some issues on Mr Ss credit record. But in 
assessing affordability only active accounts would have been relevant and therefore taken 
into consideration. On the basis of the credit report I calculate that Mr S would have been 
spending about £132 a month on the credit commitments shown in the report. With the new 
loan payments added this would have been about 18-19% of his income, which should have 
been affordable.
A credit report wont necessarily show every credit account especially where any such 
account may have been taken out recently. It will then be up to the consumer to declare this.
On the question of income Ive noted that 118 118 Money carried out standard industry 
verification checks. This would mean Mr Ss income was independently verified. In any 
event that appears to be the figure Mr S declared, and I havent seen any evidence to show 
that was wrong.
In respect of expenditure, 118 118 Money assessed this using the figures in Mr Ss application. It also used reasonable average expenditure figures. The rules say that a 
business can do this unless there was some indication that standard figures wouldnt be 
appropriate. Here Ive noted that the credit report showed that Mr S had a small overdraft of 
£39. If Mr S were struggling to pay his debts, I would have expected that figure to be much 
larger.
Ive said that 118 118 Moneys checks had to be proportionate, that is it should carry out 
necessary checks to assess the affordability of the loan. Its not usually required to carry out 
a detailed financial investigation. If its checks indicate that there might be a problem e.g. 
large amounts of outstanding credit or a high overdraft near or over the limit, then it should 
be alerted to obtain further information. I havent seen anything in this case which might 
have alerted 118 118 Money to do that.
So I think 118 118 Money carried out proportionate checks and that it made a fair lending 
decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman