DRN-4498252
The complaint
Mr G complains that Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Capital One was irresponsible
when it offered him two credit card accounts.
What happened
Capital One opened a credit card account for Mr G in December 2015 and another one a
year later in December 2016. The first had a limit of £200, the second a limit of £500 and
neither limit has been increased since opening. I understand that both accounts are now
closed.
Mr G complained to Capital One in late 2022 that it didnt look into his circumstances in
enough detail before offering him an account and the credit was unaffordable for him. Mr G 
said he was unemployed and receiving benefits at the time and had difficulty repaying 
previous debt, as his credit record would have shown. Agreeing more credit left him stuck in 
persistent debt, making payments which were difficult for him and caused him stress and 
inconvenience. Mr G said that Capital One shouldnt have agreed a second account for him, 
given how hed managed the first one.
Capital One didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said that it used a variety of information to
check that the credit would be affordable for him including information hed provided and
information from the credit reference agencies. Its checks showed that the credit would be 
appropriate and affordable for him.
Mr G referred his complaint to us. Our investigator assessed the complaint but didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. They found that Capital One wasnt irresponsible to have
opened either account for Mr G.
Mr G didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to decide and it came to me. I issued a provisional decision on 7 November 
2023 explaining why I planned to uphold Mr Gs complaint in part. Both parties have 
accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything again and, as both parties have accepted my provisional 
conclusions, I see no need to change my view of the complaint. For completeness, Ill set out 
my reasons for upholding Mr Gs complaint in part again in this final decision. 
As before, Ive had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set 
out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Capital One, need to
abide by. Capital One will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set 
out on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them.
Before entering into a credit agreement, Capital One needed to check that Mr G could afford 
to repay the credit out of his usual means, within a reasonable period of time, without having 
to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit, for 
example the amount offered, and to Mr Gs particular circumstances. The overarching 
requirement was that Capital One needed to pay due regard to Mr Gs interests and treat 
him fairly. CONC gave an example of contravening this as targeting customers with 
regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, 
poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my considerations are did Capital One complete reasonable and
proportionate checks when it opened each account for Mr G to satisfy itself that he would be
able to repay the credit offered within a reasonable period of time? If it didnt do this, what
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did Capital One
make fair lending decisions?
Capital One said it relied on information provided by Mr G about his circumstances and
information from the credit reference agencies (CRAs) about his debt when carrying out its
checks. It used national datasets to estimate his living costs and concluded that the credit
offered would be affordable for him.
When Mr G applied for his first credit card he told Capital One he was an administrator with
a salary of £20,000 (approximately £1,460 net a month) and was living with his parents. I
dont have any information about Capital Ones estimate of Mr Gs expenses, other than it
concluding that he had enough disposable income to afford the credit.
The credit file information showed that Mr G had defaulted on three accounts in 2014 with
balances of around £6,200. The last of these had defaulted in November, more than 12
months prior to the application and there wasnt any evidence that Mr G was making
payments to them. Mr G held two current accounts and one communications account. This
latter account was reported with a default balance of over £800 by one CRA and as having
been four payments in arrears during 2015 by another CRA.
Capital One agreed a limit of £200 for Mr G. Had there been no adverse information on his
credit file, Id likely say that the checks Capital One carried out here were proportionate to
the lending and the circumstances. However, although the amount of credit it agreed was
low relative to Mr Gs declared income, I think the information Capital One saw on his credit
file ought to have prompted it to look into things further before agreeing to lend to him. It
appeared that Mr G had sizeable debts and had recently missed payments on another
account, all of which raised the possibility that he might not be able to afford to repay more
credit. The regulations at the time stated that it wasnt generally sufficient to rely solely on a
customers statement of current income in a creditworthiness assessment and given the
above, I think it would have been proportionate here for Capital One to have verified what
Mr G said about his income at least.
Mr Gs provided us with his bank statements from the time. To be clear Im not suggesting
this is the information Capital One ought to have considered but its what I have and I think
its reasonable to rely on it to check what Mr Gs means were. I can see from these that he
wasnt receiving a regular salary but state and council benefits. He was also in receipt of a
student loan which was paid termly. Altogether, his income on a monthly basis amounted to
more than hed declared. So I think Capital One would have been reassured about Mr Gs
ability to meet his repayments for the credit and wouldnt have declined to lend to him had it
asked for verification of his income.
Mr G said he feels that Capital One took advantage of him because it should have seen thathe wouldnt be able to make his repayments without difficulty given how hed managed
previous credit, and this has caused him stress. I dont doubt what Mr G has told us about
his experience and Im sorry to hear how difficult things have been for him. I have borne in
mind that Capital One was not only required to consider sufficient information to be able to
make a reasonable creditworthiness assessment but also to pay due regard to Mr Gs
interests and treat him fairly. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr G but in this
case I cant say Capital One treated him unfairly because the amount of credit it offered
would have seemed repayable within a reasonable period of time and without difficulty, even
within the context of his outstanding debts.
Capital One opened a second credit card account for Mr G about a year later in December
2016. This had a limit of £500. As before, it relied on what Mr G said about his income,
checked his credit file and estimated his monthly expenses. This time Mr G said he was a
teacher, was living with his parents and gave his income as £24,000. Capital One noted that
Mr G had a county court judgement awarded against him in December 2015 and had no
active debt other than his first Capital One credit card balance of £198.
Capital One said it also considered how Mr G had managed his first account. It said that all
payments had been received on time, that these were all more than the minimum amounts
requested and the full balance had been paid on six separate occasions. However, Mr G
said that he struggled to manage this account. While he sometimes paid the balance off in
full he then spent it again on necessities or withdrew it and deposited it into his bank
account.
Ive reviewed Mr Gs statements for his first account up to December 2016. It is true that
Mr G paid above the minimum each month and cleared his balance on many occasions. Its
also true that when the account was opened he immediately spent up to the limit, went over
the limit twice, used the credit for food and transport purchases, withdrew cash several times
and had a direct debit payment returned. Mr G incurred fees for the returned payment, cash
withdrawals and being over the limit albeit most of which were returned on his request. At
the least, I think its fair to say that Mr Gs ability to manage his account in this first year was
mixed and I dont think Capital One could be reassured that he was repaying the credit
without difficulty. I think his account management combined with his county court judgement
ought to have raised serious concerns for Capital One about Mr Gs ability to manage further
credit without it having an adverse impact on his financial situation.
As before, Ive reviewed Mr Gs bank statements from the time and I think its likely that
Capital One would have learnt that he was paying rent and that his income consisted of
universal credit payments and student loans paid termly, had it investigated his means. I
dont think Capital One would have declined to lend to Mr G solely on the basis that he
couldnt afford to meet his repayments. However, it should have seen that further credit was
likely to be unsuitable for Mr G given how he was using his existing credit card and that it
had been confirmed through a court order that he wasnt dealing with his defaulted debts. On
this occasion, I dont think Capital One treated Mr G fairly or with due regard to his interests 
by offering him more credit.
Mr G spent up to his limit on this second account within a month and incurred several
overlimit fees in the first year. Mr G fully utilised the available credit most months, was over
his credit limit for around a third of the time the account was open and withdrew almost
£1,000 in cash. As with his other account Mr G was charged fees for returned payment, cash
withdrawals and being over the limit, in addition to paying interest for over six years to have
access to £500. Altogether, Ive concluded that Capital One was irresponsible to have 
agreed this second account for Mr G.Putting things right
As per our usual approach I think its fair that Mr G repays the capital as hes had the use of
this but he shouldnt pay any interest, fees or charges associated with his account opened in
2016. Therefore, Capital One should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied (and 
were not removed at the time);
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr G along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Capital One should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Mr Gs credit file.
Or, if after the rework, there is still an outstanding balance, Capital One should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr G for the remaining amount. Once 
Mr G has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account 
should be removed from his credit file.
**HM Revenue & Customs requires Capital One to deduct tax from any award of interest.
It must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I am upholding Mr Gs complaint in part about 
Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Capital One and it now needs to take the above steps to 
put things right for him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman