DRN-3381250
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the National House-Building Councils (NHBCs) decision to 
decline his claim for damage to his flat, caused by water ingress. 
What happened
On 2 March 2022, I issued my provisional decision explaining why I wasnt intending to 
uphold this complaint. This is what I said: 
What happened
Mr B is an owner of a flat within one of the two buildings that are the subject of this 
complaint. Mr B is represented in his complaint by a company who I will refer to as 
R. R is also representing five other owners and policyholders in the buildings, who 
have separate, but the same, complaints with our service. The buildings form part of 
a larger development, however, not all of the owners in the development have 
brought this complaint to our service. 
Mr B, and the other five owners, are aware that what I say here in respect of Mr Bs 
complaint will apply to the same complaints brought by the other five owners who are 
represented by R. 
Mr B has made a separate claim for damage to the common parts of the building, 
which Ive addressed in a provisional decision, of todays date. 
Mr B, like the other five owners, has separate cover under the Buildmark policy for 
damage to his flat caused by a defect. This complaint concerns NHBCs decision to 
decline Mr Bs claim for damage to his flat, made under section 3 of the policy. Mr B 
has said his flat, (as is the case with the other five flats) has been affected by water 
seeping into the flat causing damage to walls and windowsills.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been set out in 
the provisional decision Ive issued to Mr B, on todays date, regarding NHBCs 
decision to decline a claim for damage to the common parts. So, I wont repeat the 
background here.
Mr B complained to NHBC about their decision to decline his claim, and, unhappy 
with their response to that complaint, brought it to our service. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened and issued her view, partially upholding the 
complaint, in December 2021. In summary she said:
Any damage caused by the incorrect installation of the windows and lack of 
maintenance of the sealant around the windows wasnt covered by the 
Buildmark policy;
There is a possibility that some of the internal damage to the flat has been 
caused by defective render, which she believed NHBC was liable to cover; 
and
As theres not a clearly identified sole cause of the water ingress, the fairest 
way to settle the claim would be for NHBC to cover 50% of the cost of repairs 
to the internal damage in the flat, subject to the claim meeting the applicable 
minimum claim value.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not intending 
to uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
Its not in dispute that the internal parts of Mr Bs flat, which are the subject of his 
claim, could potentially be covered by the Buildmark policy. However, the evidence 
would need to show that the damage to his flat was caused by a defect in a part of 
the building thats covered.
There have been a number of reports carried out by or on behalf of NHBC and the 
owners between 2014 and 2020. The reports identify a number of possible causes of, 
or contributors to, the damage. These include: defective seals letting water into the 
building; incorrect construction of the cladding system resulting in a failure to provide 
protection from adverse weather conditions; poor repairs; and lack of maintenance, 
among other things. As explained in my common parts provisional decision, apart 
from the render, none of those parts of the building or issues are covered by the 
policy.
In respect of the render, while on of the list of covered parts, its failure still needs to 
be caused by a defect. A Defect is defined as A breach of any mandatory NHBC 
Requirement by the Builder or anyone employed by him or acting for him. And, as 
Ive explained in my provisional decision on the common parts claim made by Mr B, 
Im not persuaded that NHBCs requirements were breached in respect of the render.
I concluded that I hadnt been persuaded the damage was caused by a defect in a part of 
the building thats covered. So, NHBCs decision to decline Mr Bs claim for damage to his 
flat was made in accordance with the Buildmark policy terms and conditions and was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I invited both parties to let me have any final comments or evidence theyd like me to 
consider before issuing my final decision on the complaint. Mr B provided further 
submissions in relation to his complaint about damage to the common parts of the building, 
which Ive addressed in a final decision issued on that complaint, issued on todays date. 
However, no other arguments or evidence have been provided by either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any further evidence or arguments for me to consider in 
relation to this complaint, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision. So, for the reasons included in my provisional decision, and this final decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman