DRN-2631801
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mrs R. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
So Ill refer to it as the seller.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1999 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs R was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs R has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
Mrs R says she was told to tick a box in order to get a discount off that days purchases. I 
understand Mrs R got several store cards over the years, so its understandable if she didnt 
precisely recall this particular sale from over 20 years ago. But it does mean Im relying more 
on the paperwork from the time when reaching my decision. The application form, which Mrs 
R signed, set out the PPI as a choice, and Mrs R signed separately to confirm she wanted it. 
Mrs R has said the PPI wasnt explained properly. It doesnt seem that AXA recommended 
the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Rs individual needs. This means it didnt have 
to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It would have been for Mrs R to decide whether 
it was suitable.
However AXA did need to give Mrs R clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least the information on the 
form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what, if any, other information was given to 
Mrs R. So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference. 
But given Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary 
information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. 
I say this because its seems the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer 
sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy 
pay. And she could have kept in reserve any other means she had for meeting her living 
costs and debts. So the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt 
look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman