DRN-4507424
The complaint
Mr P complains that MBNA Limited wont refund him a payment of £3,097.50 which he says 
he didnt authorise.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mr P has explained that whilst he was on holiday a payment of 
£3,097.50 was taken from his MBNA credit card which he says he didnt authorise. MBNA 
and Mr P didnt agree on things, so Mr P referred his complaint about MBNA to us. Our 
Investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally, so the case has been passed to me 
for a decision.
I sent Mr P and MBNA my provisional decision last month. Now that both parties have had 
opportunity to comment further, Im now ready to explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of comments made in response to my provisional 
decision, Ive reached the same conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the same 
reasons. Ive explained my reasons again below. 
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 are relevant here. In short, the payment service 
provider (MBNA) will generally be liable for unauthorised payments; and a payment out of 
someones account can only be authorised if the payer consented to it. So, whilst MBNA has 
provided technical evidence from which Im satisfied its most likely Mr Ps genuine card and 
PIN were used together to authenticate the payment, this isnt enough on its own to say the 
payment was authorised. 
To decide Mr P authorised the payment, Id also need to be persuaded Mr P most likely 
consented to it. But its important to highlight consent here, under the applicable regulations, 
doesnt depend on Mr P having been fully aware of the details of the payment at the time he 
presented his card and entered his PIN (if indeed he did so). So, for example, if there was a 
mistake or Mr P was somehow tricked into paying a different amount to what he expected, 
and possibly to a different merchant, this wouldnt necessarily mean he didnt consent to the 
transaction for the purposes of the regulations; for Mr P to be regarded as having consented 
to the payment under the regulations, it would be enough for him to have agreed to make a 
payment and willingly entered his details to authenticate it.
I understand Mr P has said he never noticed his card missing. And I note there are genuine 
transactions either side of the disputed transaction indicating the card stayed within Mr Ps 
possession. Mr P also says he hadnt knowingly disclosed his PIN. Whilst I appreciate hes 
also said he was in a different place at the time compared to the location recorded on the 
transaction, a transaction wont always show accurate information about the location it was 
authenticated from, so I dont think this means Mr P couldnt have authenticated the 
payment.
So, its not easy to see here how the payment could have been authenticated by someone 
other than Mr P without his consent. Mr P has speculated that its possible when he first 
arrived at the airport with his wife and they were paying for car hire, that someone could 
have seen him enter his PIN and then distracted him whilst they took his card and put 
through a separate (unauthorised) transaction  the disputed one for £3,097.50. But I cant 
see any persuasive evidence this really happened (although I can understand why Mr P has 
suggested it as a possibility). And the airport car hire appears to have been paid for on 25 
January 2023, several days before the disputed transaction was instructed. So, I dont think 
this is what most likely happened. 
Without, in my view, any other persuasive possibilities about how someone else could have 
authenticated the payment using Mr Ps card and PIN without his knowledge or consent, but 
given I dont doubt Mr Ps integrity here, it seems to me that the most likely possibility, 
therefore, is that Mr P has somehow ended up authorising a payment for an amount and to a 
merchant he doesnt recognise as a transaction he made himself. 
In this regard, I understand Mr P has said that around the time of the disputed transaction 
his wife asked him to pay for a bag, which he paid for using a different card. But Mr P says 
its possible he tried to pay for the bag first using his MBNA card but somehow this payment 
was shown to him as unsuccessful, when perhaps it wasnt (and was instead, unbeknownst 
to him, for a different amount and to a different merchant to what he had been led to 
believe). In the absence of any other plausible suggestions, it does seem most likely this is 
how the disputed transaction occurred. But, for the purposes of the regulations, Mr P still 
consented to the transaction because he intended to make a payment and he presented his 
card and entered his PIN; as already explained, the fact the payment was neither for the 
amount nor the merchant he thought he would be paying, wouldnt invalidate consent for 
these purposes. 
So, whilst I totally understand Mr Ps strength of feeling, this means I think its most likely 
that he did consent to the transaction in the way consent is decided under the regulations for 
determining whether a transaction is authorised or not. So, I cant say MBNA was required to 
refund the transaction as unauthorised. I appreciate Mr P may think this is unfair; but if Mr P 
has paid a different amount to a different merchant than he was expecting, this isnt 
automatically MBNAs fault, and this wouldnt automatically make the payment refundable as 
unauthorised. However, if Mr P was tricked (which is a possibility), this would mean MBNAs 
fraud prevention measures  and whether they operated as they reasonably ought to have 
done  would become relevant.   MBNA would generally be expected to process payments a customer authorises it to make. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice MBNA should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
So, at the time this payment took place, I would have expected MBNA to be looking out for 
anything noticeably unusual in the transactions Mr P was making. And if it saw anything 
sufficiently unusual about a payment, or pattern of payments, I would have expected it to 
check with Mr P before processing them. However, there are many payments made by 
customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to expect a credit card provider to 
stop and check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be struck between 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent, and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments. And in this case, I agree with the Investigator, that even if Mr P was 
tricked into making this payment, I dont think I can reasonably say the payment was so 
unusual for his account that MBNA reasonably ought to have intervened in it before it was 
executed. This is because Mr Ps prior transactions showed he was in South Africa, so I 
dont think the location ought to have been a flag. I also dont think it would be so unusual for 
customers to use their credit card for one-off larger payments like this from time to time. This 
means Im not persuaded I can say MBNA unreasonably missed an opportunity to prevent 
the transaction before it was executed. 
Turning to address recovery, there are mechanisms whereby a consumer can sometimes 
recover card payments. However, in this case Mr P made the payment from his MBNA credit 
card to Vodacom. This means the merchant here, for chargeback purposes, would be 
Vodacom. And even though it looks like Mr P didnt realise he was paying this merchant, it 
seems unlikely he would have been able to show, for chargeback purposes, that the 
merchant didnt provide the products or services they were instructed to (albeit most likely 
not to Mr P). So, taking this and everything else into account, I dont think MBNAs decision 
to not pursue a chargeback was unreasonable, given I dont think it most likely would have 
succeeded. 
I understand MBNA offered to pay Mr P compensation of £100 for service issues, which 
Mr P didnt accept. MBNA has offered to reinstate this, and I think this is fair. 
In summary, it seems to me that Mr P has mistakenly authorised this payment; but authorise 
the payment under the regulations he nonetheless has. This means MBNA isnt reasonably 
required to refund it as unauthorised. Mr P may have been tricked into the payment, but if he 
was, I dont think this was MBNAs fault because I dont think the payment was so 
uncharacteristic that I could fairly say MBNA should have contacted Mr P about the 
transaction before it executed the authorisation to make it. And as the payment was made to 
what appears to be a legitimate merchant, it seems to me that the payment wouldnt have 
been recoverable through normal card payment recovery methods, because, for example, 
chargeback is concerned with the merchant paid  and whether, here, the merchant 
provided the goods or services intended, but not whether those services were specifically 
provided to Mr P, nor whether Mr P was tricked into the payment. Im sorry, as I know Mr P 
will be disappointed, but all of this means Im not persuaded I can tell MBNA in this case to 
refund the transaction.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman