DRN-2687643
The complaint
Mrs B, together with a trustee, complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd has reduced the sum 
assured on her life assurance policy despite her being told it was guaranteed. Shes also 
complained that it didnt respond to her contact about this issue in 2018.
What happened
Mrs B has a whole of life policy which is now administered by Zurich. When she took the 
policy out, in 1978, it had a sum assured of £17,667. She complained in 2012, when the sum 
assured had reduced and Zurich explained the reviewable nature of the policy and how it 
worked. It didnt uphold her complaint.
In 2015, Mrs B increased her sum assured back up to around £17,000. In 2018, Mrs B 
contacted Zurich as her sum assured had reduced below £17,000 again and she felt that this 
was wrong so wanted to find out why it had happened. Zurich didnt respond. In 2020, the 
sum assured reduced further and Mrs B complained. Zurich explained that it had dealt with 
her complaint about the reviewable nature in 2012 but said that it ought to have spoken to 
her in 2018 and it didnt. So it offered her £155 compensation. Unhappy with this response 
Mrs B referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator explained that any complaint about the reviewable nature of the policy, and 
the changes in sum assured couldnt be dealt with as Mrs B hadnt referred her complaint to 
us in time  which wouldve been six months after shed received the final response letter in 
2012. Our Investigator did consider Mrs Bs complaint that shed signed for her sum assured 
to not decrease again in 2015. The Investigator said the 2015 document showed Mrs B had 
increased her sum assured but concluded that this didnt suggest it wouldnt change again. 
The Investigator felt the compensation for the lack of communication in 2018  which has 
now been paid in full - was fair.
Mrs B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision. She said that she didnt 
feel the 2015 document was relevant and doesnt believe she signed it. She reasserted that 
she had signed something, after her original complaint in 2012, that said her policy would 
pay out no less than £17,667.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigator broadly for the same reasons. Our Investigator 
has already explained that we cant consider the complaint about the reviewable nature of 
the policy that was dealt with in 2012. As this wasnt contested by either party, Ive not 
considered this in my decision. Rather this decision focuses on what happened after that 
point  that Mrs B believes she was told her policy wouldnt provide less than £17,667.
2015 increase in sum assured
In 2015, Mrs B and the trustee, completed a form to elect to increase the sum assured to 
around £17,000. Prior to this the sum assured was around £15,000 so I cant see that Mrs B 
was told the policy would provide at least £17,667 before this date. Mrs B says she didnt 
sign this form but Ive not seen evidence this was the case. And in any event, it appears that 
she wanted the higher cover that was available, so I think its likely she did elect to increase 
it when Zurich gave her the opportunity. Mrs B has complained that she thought the sum 
assured wouldnt decrease after this. She has mentioned shed signed a different form to 
confirm this but hasnt been able to provide a copy of it.
Ive looked at the documents she received in 2015  and afterwards  and Ive not seen 
anything to say that the sum assured would stay the same. Zurich had already explained to 
Mrs B that the sum assured could change (and it had changed previously) so I see nothing 
to suggest Mrs B was led to believe that increasing her cover in 2015 would mean there 
wouldnt be any further changes.
I do understand Mrs Bs strength of feeling about this, but the evidence Ive seen suggests 
that Zurich hasnt misled her about the policy cover since her previous complaint. The letters 
shes received show that she could increase her sum assured, and later letters indicated it 
could change before it then had to be decreased. I cant see anything to suggest Zurich has 
done anything wrong or led Mrs B to believe anything would happen differently.
Lack of communication in 2018
Zurich acknowledged that it shouldve called Mrs B in 2018 when she contacted it about her 
decreasing sum assured. And it accepted that this wouldve caused frustration. Zurich 
offered Mrs B £155 compensation for the trouble and upset its lack of communication 
caused her. This payment also covered £5 for call costs. I think the total amount of £155 is 
fair and reasonable for the impact the lack of call had on Mrs B. I cant see she contacted 
Zurich again until 2020 so I dont think she was caused a level of distress that warrants 
additional compensation. Zurich has confirmed it has paid Mrs B this in full. 
As I cant see that Zurich has misled Mr B since her last complaint to it, and I think the offer it 
made for its lack of communication in 2018 was fair, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman