DRN-3252157
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Covea Insurance plc avoided her motor insurance policy (treated it like 
it never existed) and refused to pay her theft claim.
A representative has supported Mrs K in bringing this complaint, but for simplicity Ill mainly 
refer to her in this decision.
What happened
Mrs K took out a motor insurance policy online with Covea in 2019, and it automatically 
renewed to begin on 20 March 2020. On 22 November 2020 unfortunately Mrs Ks car was 
stolen, and she contacted Covea on 30 November 2020 to try and make a claim. 
Covea said shed answered the question they asked about convictions incorrectly as she 
had a MS90 carrying six penalty points from July 2017 shed not disclosed. And they 
considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled 
them to avoid her policy, turn down her claim because of this and keep the premium shed 
already paid. Covea also outlined a number of concerns they had over conflicting information 
regarding the theft  and said this meant theyd currently not pay her claim in any event.
Mrs K brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and agreed it was deliberate or 
reckless and that Covea were entitled to avoid Mrs Ks policy and retain the premium shed 
paid.
Mrs K doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She 
said this is because she didnt know about the MS90 conviction at the time of taking out the 
policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show theyd have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea thinks Mrs K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she answered a question about motoring convictions. Theyve said she was asked if she had 
any, but said no. But, later on, she said she was aware she did have the MS90 conviction 
but hadnt declared it as she thought itd expired.
An MS90 conviction is generally because the registered owner of a car has failed to provide 
information regarding who was driving at the time of an offence.
Ive looked at the question Mrs K was initially asked when taking out the insurance, which 
was whether shed been convicted of any motoring offences, or had a fixed penalty imposed 
within the past 5 years?. The answer on the Statement of Insurance says no. Ive noted 
though Mrs Ks argument is that she wasnt aware of the conviction at all. While Ive noted 
Mrs Ks point, Ive also listened to the call she had with Covea when they were looking into 
things. The conversation went like this:
Covea  following a check of your licence it does show an undisclosed motoring 
conviction I just want to know why that wasnt disclosed to us?
Mrs K  I believed that had finished to be honest by the time I had got the insurance. 
Actually I cant recall I actually wasnt aware of the conviction, I think it was just 
due to not sending the paperwork back to the Police and theyve given me those 
points
Covea  So you werent aware or you believed itd finished?
Mrs K  When I later found I knew theyd finished once I knew that I had them I 
knew it was finished anyway. I cant recall at that time why I wouldnt have done it to 
be honest
I think its difficult for me to conclude Covea are acting unfairly saying Mrs K wasnt aware of 
the MS90 conviction, as when she was first asked, she said she believed itd finished by the 
time she got the insurance. 
The question she was asked when first taking out the insurance was if shed had a 
conviction in the last five years  but the MS90 was added three years earlier. So, if she 
knew about it then she should have disclosed this. When discussing this issue with Mrs Ks 
representative he said he could prove Mrs K wasnt aware of the conviction.
If that is the case, then Mrs K couldnt have disclosed it, as she didnt know about it  so she 
would have taken reasonable care  meaning there couldnt be a misrepresentation.
It wasnt clear to me whether Mrs K or her representative had heard the call, and I also 
wanted to understand what evidence they had which would show Mrs K didnt know about 
this  so, we shared the call, and asked for any evidence they had to show Mrs K didnt 
know about the MS90.
In response, Mrs Ks representative said:
As an MS90 is a conviction for failure to respond / identify, if Mrs K was aware of this, 
shed have identified the person, or taken the three points rather than six.
Theyve submitted a claim to the court to have the MS90 removed. 
I do understand their point, but I think there is enough evidence to suggest Mrs K was aware 
of the conviction, despite what she and her representative have said. And the conviction 
hasnt been vacated yet by the court. So, I think on balance, Mrs K failed to take reasonable 
care.Having decided Mrs K failed to take reasonable care, I now need to consider whether this 
misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation  as in, did it make a difference to 
whether Covea would have offered Mrs K insurance, and on what terms.
Covea have provided their underwriting criteria. I cant share it, as its commercially 
sensitive, but it shows they wouldnt have offered Mrs K cover if shed told them about the 
MS90.
This means Im satisfied Mrs Ks misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Covea have said Mrs Ks misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless because Mrs K has 
demonstrated she knew about the conviction but didnt declare it.
I agree that Mrs Ks misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, because in that phone call 
it does sound like she knew of the conviction.
As Im satisfied Mrs Ks misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate or reckless, Ive 
looked at the actions Covea can take in accordance with CIDRA.
They can avoid her policy, turn down her claim and keep the premium shed already paid  
which is what theyve done.
Therefore, Im satisfied Covea was entitled to avoid Mrs Ks policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  her policy never existed, Covea does not have 
to deal with her claim following the theft of the car. As CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Covea to rely on it to avoid Mrs Ks 
policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Ive noted the representative for Mrs K has said theyre taking this matter to court to prove 
she wasnt aware of the conviction. If the court vacates the conviction, then Mrs K can ask 
Covea to re-review the claim again. Ive noted Covea said they had other concerns about the 
claim  but if the conviction is vacated, Id expect Covea to thoroughly investigate whether a 
legitimate claim has now been presented. If Covea turn down any subsequent claim, then 
Mrs K would be entitled to ask us to look at a new complaint for her about that decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman