DRN-3478897
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) 
unfairly turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
On 28 November 2007 Mr and Mrs S purchased a points-based timeshare from the 
supplier. Ill call this business, X. The total cost of this was £13,644 and it was funded 
by a £8,049 loan from GE Money and by trading in their existing timeshare (a trial 
membership) for the value of £5,595. The loan was set to run for just over 10 years. Mr 
and Mrs S repaid this loan early on 20 May 2008. GE Money has said that the funds 
from this loan werent paid directly to X, but to another provider Ill call Y.
On 1 May 2008 Mr and Mrs S purchased additional points for the points-based 
timeshare from X. The total cost of this was £6,880, and together with an additional 
£1,044 for membership fees, these sums were funded by another loan with GE Money 
for £7,924. This loan was set up to run for just over 15 years. This loan didnt refinance 
the previous loan (which was paid off later the same month). GE Money is unable to 
confirm when this loan was repaid as it no longer holds records. Mr and Mrs S have 
confirmed it was repaid on 16 June 2008 when they refinanced this loan with another 
provider and purchased further timeshare points. This decision will focus on the two 
GE Money points-based timeshare membership purchases. 
Mr and Mrs S have said that when they purchased the points-based timeshares, 
they were told a number of things which they say turned out to be untrue. And 
they said if it wasnt for these misrepresentations, they wouldnt have purchased 
the points-based timeshares.
Theyve said they were sold the points as an investment and told theyd be able to 
easily sell their points. However, when they tried to, they found there was no resale 
market. When on holiday they found non-members at the same resorts for less than 
or the same price as their membership fees and so the resorts were not exclusive 
like they were led to believe. And whilst they were told the membership fees would 
increase, they were assured this would only be by small amounts. They were told 
theyd be able to travel worldwide including during the school holidays. However, 
when they tried there was a lack of availability (particularly during the school 
holidays) and there was a limited choice of destinations. They raised this during the 
subsequent purchase and were told that additional points would provide them with 
more options during the school holidays, but they were met with the same problems.
Mr and Mrs S have also said they were subject to high pressure sales tactics during 
the sales meetings and shown luxury resorts/facilities to entice them into purchasing 
points. They were unaware they could give notice and end their agreements or that 
there was a 14 day cooling off period. And theyve said that during the sales they 
werent given sufficient time to read the documentation. In addition, theyve argued 
that both loans were unaffordable and so shouldnt have been lent.
In April 2020, Mr and Mrs S, using a representative complained to GE Money. In relation 
to the first loan GE Money has said that because the loan proceeds were paid to Y and 
not X there was no debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship in place which is 
needed to make a s.75 claim. It also said that because GE Money wasnt present during 
the sale and didnt sell the points-based timeshare, it cant investigate some of the 
issues raised. And that Mr and Mrs S should approach the supplier, X, directly about 
these issues. In relation to the May 2008 sale GE Money said it didnt have any 
information on its systems about this loan.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed 
to do anything further. They thought that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had 
been brought too late under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA), so they didnt think GE 
Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. They also thought that there 
wasnt sufficient information to conclude the loans were unaffordable for Mr and 
Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S representatives responded to explain why they thought the complaint 
had been brought in time. They argued that the time limits under the LA should be 
extended under s.32 LA because they felt Mr and Mrs S date of knowledge was 
several years later. This is because Mr and Mrs S have said they werent aware they 
had an actionable claim until they took legal advice in late 2016. Specifically, this 
was when they found out that an open-ended contract was unlawful under Spanish 
law. And that X didnt disclose that Mr and Mrs S could end they contract by giving 28 
days notice.
So the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 setting out why I didnt think I could look at the 
s.75 claims and why I didnt plan to uphold the other aspects of Mr and Mrs S complaint. A 
copy of my provisional decision is included below.
I currently dont think I have jurisdiction to consider a claim under s.75 CCA for either 
of the 2007 or 2008 loans. And whilst I think I do have jurisdiction to consider claims 
under s140A CCA for both loans, I think these claims were raised too late and GE 
Money has a complete defence to them under the LA. I also dont think I have sufficient 
information to conclude the loans werent affordable for Mr and Mrs S. Ill explain 
further below.
Section 75 CCA
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look 
into complaints. These are set out in the FCA Handbook under DISP and are not 
discretionary. DISP. 2 sets out the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
DISP. 2 says that in order to be within the ombudsmans jurisdiction a firm (i.e. a 
financial business which is authorised to carry out one or more regulated activities by 
the FCA or PRA) needs to be within the ombudsmans compulsory jurisdiction at the 
time of the events (the act or omission) being complained about.
In the case of a s.75 claim the regulated activity being complained about the firms 
handling of the s.75 claim, typically and in this case, when the firm declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs S representatives wrote to GE Money on their behalf to raise the s.75 CCA 
claim on 8 April 2020. GE Money issued a holding letter with referral rights to our 
service in May 2020 and then subsequently sent a final response letter declining both 
claims1 in July 2020. Prior to this on 6 December 2019 GE Money resigned from being 
FCA regulated and so after this time it was no longer authorised by the FCA. GE 
Money therefore no longer came under the ombudsmans compulsory jurisdiction. So 
at the time of the regulated activity being complained about, the consideration of the 
s.75 claim, GE Money was not subject to the ombudsmans compulsory jurisdiction. As 
1 GE Money rejected the claim in relation to the 2007 loan. It said it couldnt locate information regarding the 
2008 loan and therefore effectively rejected this claim.such our rules do not allow me to consider the s.75 CCA claim in relation to either loan.
In addition, financial businesses can also elect to be part of the ombudsmans 
voluntary jurisdiction. However, GE Money has never been a member of the 
ombudsmans voluntary jurisdiction. So GE Moneys handling of the s.75 in relation to 
both loans is outside of the rules I must apply and I cannot consider a complaint in 
relation to this.
For the avoidance of doubt, I should explain that the regulated activity Im considering 
under a s140A claim is the lenders rights and duties under a regulated credit 
agreement. The consumer is asserting that the lender was party to an unfair debtor-
creditor relationship and the lender had and exercised rights and duties under the 
agreement during the currency of that unfair relationship. The credit agreements in 
question were entered into on 28 November 2007 and 1 May 2008. At these times GE 
Money was a member of the ombudsmans compulsory jurisdiction. So I dont think the 
same reasoning applies for the s.140A claims as it does for the s.75 claims and Ill now 
go on to explore these claims further.
Section 140A CCA
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by explaining that where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my decision about the merits of this complaint on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I also need to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my 
decision. And I want to assure Mr and Mrs S, if I dont address every point thats 
been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything 
thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on 
what I think is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Does Mr Es claim meet the requirements for a claim under the CCA?
A debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement is needed to consider the associated 
timeshare agreements when thinking about the fairness of the debtor-creditor 
relationship under s.140A CCA. GE Money has said that there was no such 
arrangement in relation to the first loan as the loan proceeds went to a different 
business to X (Y) so no claim could be brought. Having looked at the points-based 
timeshare agreement for the second loan which Mr and Mrs S have supplied, the 
same situation occurred. The loan proceeds for the second purchased were also paid 
to Y directly. So I think GE Money would likely have raised the sale concerns in 
relation to this loan if it had been able to trace this loan within their records.
However, having considered all the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as 
simple as GE Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates it is possible a court 
would conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr and 
Mrs S s.140A CCA claims. What is crucial is the relationship between the X as the 
supplier of the service and the business that took the payment (Y). But Ive not gone on to 
make a finding on that point as, even if I did think there were the right relationships in 
place for both claims, I think GE Money would have a total defence to each of them under 
the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under s140A CCA a court may make an order under section 140B CCA in 
connection with a credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has 
the power to make such a determination, but I think this is relevant law and I 
have taken it into account.
Ive set out Mr and Mrs S allegations in full above and therefore dont intend to repeat 
them. Essentially, Mr and Mrs S have said that X misrepresented the nature and 
benefits of the timeshare agreement. Theyve also made allegations about the sales 
process and how the points-based timeshare was sold to them. I think these allegations 
could be considered under a s.140A CCA claim.
But any claim made under s.140A is subject to the LA, which provides periods in 
which claims must be brought. Any claim would be an action brought for a sum 
recoverable by statute and therefore covered by s.9 LA. That means any claim had 
to be brought within six years of the date the cause of action accrued.
It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A 
CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the relationship arising 
from the credit agreement ended (if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made). This is because s.140A CCA considers the whole relationship arising from 
the credit agreement. In this case the date the relationship arising out of the first 
credit agreement ended was when the loan was repaid in May 2008. And the 
second credit agreement was June 2008.
However, Mr and Mrs S didnt raise their claim until April 2020 which was outside 
of this time period. I therefore think an action under s.140A CCA was brought too 
late and I dont think GE Money acted unfairly in declining this claim (albeit it did so 
for different reasons).
On their behalf Mr and Mrs S representatives have asked me to consider s.32 LA, 
which states that in cases of fraud, concealment or mistake, the limitation period 
only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud, concealment or mistake 
(or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). Theyve argued that 
although Mr and Mrs S were aware they had a legitimate grievance as they hadnt 
received the services promised, they werent aware they had an actionable claim 
until they took legal advice in late 2016. And specifically, they werent aware the 
contract was open-ended which they say was illegal under Spanish law. Theyve 
argued this was concealed by X. Theyve also argued that the fact they could exit 
their membership by giving 28 days notice was also concealed from them.
Ive thought about these points carefully, together with everything thats been 
raised in relation to this issue, but I dont agree with the arguments Mr and Mrs S 
representatives are making. As explained above, s.32 allows for the start date for 
the limitation period to be delayed in circumstances of fraud, concealment or 
mistake to either the point the claimant discovered this or would have discovered 
this if theyd exercised reasonable diligence. This provision doesnt draw the same 
distinction Mr and Mrs S representatives are inviting me to conclude between 
discovery of a legitimate grievance and discovery of an actionable claim. 
Ultimately the testimony Ive been provided with confirms Mr and Mrs S were 
aware they didnt receive the services they were promised shortly after entering 
each contract, which formed the basis of their claims. 
So even if I agreed there had been fraud, concealment, or mistakes in relation to 
this, because they discovered this shortly after contracting, the limitation period 
involved wouldnt be materially different to what Ive outlined above. And Ive not 
been directed to anything that Mr and Mrs S representatives say was concealed 
from them that would mean they werent aware they had a cause of cation against 
GE Money. Therefore, Mr and Mrs S would still have raised their claim too late.
Turning to the two specific points raised, whether the duration of the contract does or doesnt breach Spanish law is not the issue here. Looking at the terms for the 
points-based timeshare purchased in 2008, these clearly state that the contract is 
governed by English law. Ive not been provided with a copy of the 2007 purchase 
terms, but from what I know about the suppliers contracts from that time and 
given the purchases were with the same supplier within approximately six months 
of each other, I think its likely this contract wouldve also be governed by English 
law. Ive not been presented with any arguments or reasons why the duration of 
the contract would be unlawful under English law. So I dont think there is 
evidence to suggest why s.32 would help them with their claim.
For largely the same reasons I also dont think not being aware that they could 
exit the contract by giving 28 days notice changes the position on the claims 
being raised too late. I havent been provided any evidence that this was 
concealed from Mr and Mrs S and how that would mean they wouldnt have been 
aware they could have made the claims than they did earlier. So I dont think the 
arguments raised in relation to s.32 persuade me that this claim was raised in 
time and Ive not seen any other reason why the limitation period should be 
extended in this case.
The lending decisions
Mr and Mrs S representatives have also argued that Mr and Mrs S couldnt have 
afforded to repay the loans provided. And so theyve argued that proper credit 
assessments were not carried out prior to lending.
As explained above, GE Money cannot locate details of the 2008 loan, however it has 
been able to provide details of information gathered about Mr and Mrs S circumstances 
during the first loan application. From this I can see Mr and Mrs S provided income and 
employment information, and basic expenditure information. They also provided details 
of their property including the amount of equity in it. I dont have details about what 
information may have been gathered at the time of the second loan.
Based on the limited information Ive been provided with, it is possible that GE Money 
didnt undertake proper credit assessments prior to agreeing either loan, but I make no 
finding on that point. In order to uphold this aspect of their complaint Id need to be 
satisfied that the lending was unaffordable, and that Mr and Mrs S lost out as a result of 
this. Mr and Mrs S and their representatives havent provided any detailed information 
about their financial circumstances at this time or why they feel Mr and Mrs S couldnt 
afford to repay the borrowing, aside from saying that they had other debts. So I dont 
have sufficient information to uphold this aspect of their complaint even if I did think the 
right checks hadnt been done.
I asked both parties to provide me with anything further in response to my provisional 
decision. Neither party has provided a response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, given neither party has provided anything further, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I reached in my provisional decision (which are detailed above and form 
part of this decision.) 
So I follows that I dont have the power to consider the complaint in relation to the s.75 CCA 
claims. And I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint in relation to GE Moneys handling of the 
s.140A claims or the affordability of the loans.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I cant consider part of Mr and Mrs S complaint and I 
dont uphold the parts I can consider of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
