DRN-1805439
The complaint
Mr K complains that esure Insurance Limited provided poor service to him and misled him 
about the suspension of his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K contacted esure on 1 May 2020 to say he wanted the policy to be suspended for four 
months immediately. Hed already declared the car off road. esures advisor asked if he 
wanted a full suspension or a 75% suspension, which would leave fire and theft cover intact. 
Mr K asked for a 75% suspension. The advisor checked, then said he couldnt have that 
unless his car was going to be kept in a locked garage. Mr Ks car was going to be left on his 
driveway. He then decided to opt for the full policy suspension. 
When Mr Ks car was stolen on 28 June 2020. esure didnt cover the claim. Mr K said hed 
been pushed into suspending the policy fully. He said he was in a rush at the time, as he 
was leaving the UK that day. Mr K also said the risk to esure of the car being stolen at night 
from his driveway was no greater than if it had been in a locked garage. He said as the 
thieves stole the car key from his house, they would have found a garage key, too. He 
pointed out that (although he wasnt aware of it at the time) the policy documents didnt say 
the car must be kept in a  garage in order to get a 75% policy suspension. And he said he 
wasnt sent amended policy documents  nor a partial refund of the premium. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ks complaint. She thought the advisor had made 
esures position clear. She said that policy documents dont cover every situation. She didnt 
think it would have made any difference to Mr K had he been sent revised policy documents 
either. In her view it was reasonable for esure to decline the claim, but she thought Mr K 
should have been given a partial premium refund. esure told her it would arrange that.
Mr K said everything hed already said still stood and that esure should pay him £18,000 for 
his stolen car. He added that he thought all relevant details should be set out in the policy 
documents  / terms and conditions. He said as esure didnt contact him after the suspension 
took effect, hed forgotten all about it, so as far as he was concerned, the policy was still 
active. Mr K said esure hadnt paid the £50 compensation it offered for a delay in reviewing 
his complaint. In his view, the delay wasnt lengthy, so he thought esure had only offered 
that sum to steer him away from complaining to this service.  As there was no agreement, 
the complaint was passed to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy wording says that any suspension of cover can only take place if a consumers 
car isnt left on a public road. That doesnt fully explain esures criteria, but Mr K says he 
hadnt looked at the policy anyway. His decision to ask for a full suspension of the policy was 
based on the specific details given to him by esures advisor when he contacted esure to 
discuss it. I think the transcript shows that she explained the options clearly. I dont think she 
pushed Mr K into anything. And it wasnt esures fault that he contacted it at the last minute. 
 
In my opinion, it would have made no difference had Mr K read the policy before contacting 
esure. Had he done so, hed have been expecting esure to say that he could suspend the 
policy as long as the car wasnt going to be kept on a public road. But hed still have been 
subject to esures full terms and conditions on the two options. I dont think it matters that the 
policy didnt give more detail. Had it done so, Mr K would havent have seen it. But if he had, 
the only difference would have been that hed have known earlier that the storage of the car 
in a locked garage was a requirement for a partial suspension to be applied. 
I think the crucial point is that esure must be able to show that it makes consumers aware of 
any conditions or limitations before they decide what to do. I think esure did that when Mr K 
asked for the suspension. As he would have preferred retaining cover for fire and theft, he 
must have realised that there was a risk in leaving the car on the driveway for four months. 
But when he then had to choose between leaving the policy in place, or having no cover at 
all on the car, he chose the latter, without querying it or expressing any reservations. 
In my view, it would have been better had esure written to Mr K to confirm the change of 
cover hed asked for. But I think he made his decision without any pressure from esure. He 
didnt waver at the time, and he knew the policy had been suspended. So I dont think 
theres any reason to assume it would have made a difference to Mr K had that happened. 
Mr K says he doesnt agree with esures underwriters that a car is less likely to be stolen if 
its kept in a locked garage rather than on a driveway. But its for an insurer to decide what 
risks its prepared to cover and on what terms. In doing so, insurers consider relevant data 
(including motor theft statistics). So I dont think its pertinent that the thief entered Mr Ks 
house, found the car key (and might have stolen the car, even if it had it been locked away).
I think esure should have paid the £50 compensation and returned the partial premium 
promptly (as agreed later with the investigator). I dont think its likely that esure thought 
offering Mr K a very modest sum for delay would have any effect on his decision to approach 
this service, given the amount at stake on the declined claim.      
I understand why Mr K is distressed about what happened, as hes suffered a substantial 
financial loss. Whilst I sympathise, given the position Mr K has found himself in, I dont think 
hes been able to show that esure acted unreasonably, so I cant uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules I must ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman