DRN-1071144
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Rooftop Mortgages Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
charging fees to his mortgage account since 2007. He wants all fees and charges paid 
refunded, the account recorded with the credit reference agencies as being fully up-to-date, 
and compensation for the trouble and upset he's suffered.
What happened
Mr G had a mortgage with Rooftop, and in September 2018 he received a refund of £177.45 
from the previous administrator of the mortgage of overcharged interest. Mr G said that he 
believed as a result that his account should've been in credit, not arrears, which would mean 
that the arrears fees and charges had been applied unfairly.
Mr G complained to Rooftop. It said it charged three arrears fees and two returned direct 
debit fee in November and December 2018 as Mr G didnt pay his October and December 
monthly payment, and remained in arrears until February 2019. Upon review of the charges 
made, Rooftop actually took four arrears fees, not three.
Mr G complained to us. The investigator's view was that Rooftop wasn't at fault. He said that 
the overcharged interest by the previous administrator had the effect of reducing the interest 
Mr G would pay over the lifetime of the mortgage, and didn't affect the contractual monthly 
payment Mr G had to pay or reduce the balance. The investigator pointed out that the money 
was repaid to Mr G directly, not to the mortgage account, and that in 2018 Mr G failed to pay 
his direct debit - it was this was caused him to pay fees and arrears charges. The 
investigator said that Rooftop was able to charge these fees under the terms and conditions 
of the mortgage and because Mr G was in arrears due to the failed direct debits.
Mr G disagreed. He said he was charged fees when his mortgage account was in credit and 
wanted an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I can only look at fees charged in the six 
years before Mr G came to this service due to the regulations which set out what this service 
can and can't look at, unless there were exceptional circumstances why Mr G wasn't able to 
bring his complaint in time. Im also only dealing with the complaint against Rooftop, as 
opposed to the other complaints Mr G has brought in connection with this matter.
The evidence available to me shows that Mr G after Rooftop took over the mortgage in 
December 2016 was only charged arrears fees and returned direct debit fees due to the 
failure of his direct debits in 2018. This was after Mr G received the overpayment refund 
from the previous administrator of the mortgage.  The failure to pay the direct debits on time 
meant Mr G was one month or more in arrears; under the terms and conditions of the mortgage, Rooftop was entitled to claim these fees as a result and I can't say that this was 
unfair. 
I also note that the refund was paid to Mr G direct, not to his mortgage account, and was 
nothing to do with fees or charges, but due to overpaid interest. The fact that a previous 
administrator refunded interest direct to Mr G didn't render his mortgage account in credit - 
Mr G didn't pay his monthly payment as required and owed arrears as a result. Mr G hasn't 
provided any evidence of him being charged other fees and charges while the mortgage 
account was in credit.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 20 
May 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman