DRN-4390979
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Tradex Insurance Company Limited (Tradex) handled and 
declined a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H had a motor insurance policy arranged through Tradex covering his car, which he uses 
for his job as a private hire driver.
His car was damaged in November 2022 and he made a claim. Tradex looked into his claim 
and asked Mr H for more information about his ownership of the car so it could satisfy itself 
about his circumstances.
There was a series of correspondence between Tradex and Mr H about this and other 
matters.
Tradex didnt receive the information it said it needed and it declined Mr Hs claim.
Mr H complained about the time it took Tradex to carry out its checks and that it hadnt 
settled his claim. 
He brought his complaint to this service. He asks that his claim is settled, plus compensation 
for his loss of earnings and for his distress and inconvenience. Our investigator looked into it 
and said he didnt think it would be upheld. He said he thought Tradex acted fairly in its 
request for information and it had a duty to validate claims.
Mr H didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why as I appreciate this will 
be a considerable disappointment for him
Its not the role of this service to decide if a claim should be paid. We look at whether the 
insurer has acted fairly and reasonably in how its dealt with a claim and whether its reached 
a reasonable result.
Its Tradexs responsibility to validate any claims made, and its Mr Hs responsibility to co-
operate with Tradex and provide it with the information it reasonably needs to validate and 
handle his claim.
I can see from the file that Tradex asked Mr H for further evidence about his circumstances 
in November 2022 and that Mr H supplied it. Tradex then carried out further investigations 
about how Mr H had originally bought the car. And I can see this involved setting up 
interviews with third parties. 
Tradex has said why it needed to carry out those investigations and I dont think its reasons 
are unfair. Ive also looked in detail at the timescales Tradex used to check and verify the 
results of its validation and investigation work. Again, I cant say Tradex acted unfairly in how 
it progressed the claim. 
Ultimately Tradex wasnt able to validate the information to its satisfaction and so it wasnt 
able to progress Mr Hs claim. 
Its important I say that Tradex has said if further information is supplied in future then it will 
review it and potentially deal with the claim.
But I dont think Tradex has acted unfairly in how its handled Mr Hs claim or the decisions 
its made.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman