DRN-3798134
The complaint
Miss B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse funds she lost when she fell 
victim to an investment scam.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 12 October 2022. Ive copied the content of 
that document below:
Miss B saw an advert for a cryptocurrency investment firm on a social media platform. Miss 
B conducted internet searches of the company and found a forum containing largely positive 
reviews. On this basis she left her details to be contacted on. 
Miss B was contacted by an individual purporting to be an account manager. He talked her 
through how cryptocurrency works and provided Miss B with some investment training. After 
this, Miss B agreed to make an initial trial payment of around £260 to invest. She was shown 
her investment on a trading platform which led her to believe shed made a profit of around 
£100. Miss B was contacted by her managers secretary who helped her set up a Binance 
account, by which to withdraw her profits, which she did successfully. Encouraged by these 
profits, Miss B agreed to make further payments to the firm via Binance, as listed below:
Date of payment Amount Payment method
14/05/2021 £2,000 Debit card
20/05/2021 £9,000 Debit card
20/05/2021 £9,000 Debit card
20/05/2021 £2,000 Debit card
24/05/2021 £5,000 Debit card
02/06/2021 £10,000 Debit card payment funded 
by loan with HSBC
Miss B was told that the final payment she made for £10,000 was to pay HMRC taxes shed 
incurred on her profit. Miss B has explained both her account manager and his secretary 
were threatening and advised if she didnt pay this, she wouldnt receive her profits. Miss B 
questioned why this hadnt been explained sooner and was told it was a very normal 
procedure. Miss B therefore took out a loan to cover this payment. After making the final 
payment, Miss B expected to receive her profits within two hours. When this didnt happen, 
she tried to call her manager back, but the telephone number was no longer active. At this 
point she realised shed been the victim of a scam and contacted HSBC to raise a fraud 
claim. 
HSBC considered the claim but didnt agree it was liable to reimburse Miss B. It said as Miss 
B authorised the payments, she would need to contact the retailer directly to dispute them. 
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Miss B brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. Although she didnt consider the initial 
payment to be unusual, she found the second payment  for £9,000  ought to have 
triggered HSBCs fraud alert systems, as it was unusual and uncharacteristic for the 
spending on Miss Bs account. And she was satisfied that had HSBC intervened, the scam 
would likely have unravelled. She also considered whether Miss B had contributed to her 
losses but found she hadnt. 
HSBC disagreed with the outcome reached. In summary it said:
Miss B appeared to have had concerns before making the final payment of £10,000 
to the fraudster  and would likely have had these sooner, had she conducted further 
checks before investing 
Miss B did on occasion make large payments, including one for £9,000 in March 
2021. It therefore doesnt consider the second payment Miss B made was out of 
character for her account. 
Even if HSBC had intervened, there were no warnings at the time about the firm Miss 
B was corresponding with. It could therefore only have provided general investment 
warnings, which it doesnt consider wouldve stopped Miss B from deciding to invest. 
Contributory negligence should be considered as Miss B didnt conduct enough 
checks before making the payments. HSBC finds the reasons given for the final 
payment of taxes to be particularly implausible and a warning sign that it considers 
she ignored. 
The 8% simple interest applied to the adjudicators view wasnt in line with our 
approach. HSBC considered interest applied at the savings account rate would 
therefore be more appropriate. 
The investigator agreed with HSBCs comments regarding interest at the account rate being 
appropriate and advised Miss B of this amendment to her opinion. As HSBC didnt agree 
with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks and 
building societies should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. 
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
they were duped into doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customers as a result. HSBC is aware of our general approach to its 
safeguarding and due diligence duties to protect customers. 
The payments made by Miss B were made using her debit card and theres no dispute here 
that she authorised them. Miss B is therefore liable for payments unless there is evidence 
HSBC could and should have done more to protect her, which is the issue Ive considered.
First, Im persuaded Miss B did fall victim to a scam  while there are no warnings available 
on the FCA website to confirm this business was acting illegitimately, the actions of the 
individual she corresponded with (including contact via enquiry form, an initial small 
investment with quick returns, the account manager and trading platform set up) all bear the hallmarks seen in investment scams, as well as the request for a final tax payment followed 
by lack of contact. 
Miss B made a number of payments. But none of them went directly to the fraudster.  
Instead, Miss B was making payments to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange. This is 
important as it wouldnt have been known to HSBC where the ultimate destination of the 
funds was. It also means any chargeback attempt would likely have failed as payments went 
to a different party. 
But I do think HSBC should have intervened. Miss B made a number of debit card payments 
from her account. I agree with the investigator that the first payment wasnt unusual or 
uncharacteristic for the account, based on the payments value. I therefore dont find HSBC 
ought to have intervened when the first transaction of £2,000 was made.
However, I find the first payment made on 20 May 2021 for £9,000 was sufficiently unusual 
and uncharacteristic that it ought to have triggered HSBCs fraud systems and the payment 
paused for intervention. I appreciate HSBC has flagged one other previous bill payment in 
the past six months of a similar value as its rationale that this scam payment wasnt 
sufficiently unusual  but I disagree with this. Firstly I dont agree that one prior payment 
would make a later transaction not appear as unusual  if anything I think both stand out as 
unusual against Miss Bs general account use and could warrant intervention. The fraudulent 
payments were also made to a cryptocurrency exchange. While I accept that buying 
cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise, both the FCA and Action Fraud had warned of 
cryptocurrency exchange and forex trading scams in 2018. And in May 2019 Action Fraud 
published further warnings that such scams had tripled in the past year. This type of insight 
is something regulated businesses including HSBC, ought to take notice of. So even if Miss 
B had been sending money to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, it didnt follow that her 
money was safe, or that she wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud or a scam. 
Had HSBC carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Miss B about the payment, 
Ive no reason to doubt she would have explained what she was doing. Whilst I accept it had 
no duty to protect her from a poor investment choice, or give investment advice, it could 
have provided Miss B with information about the high risks associated with these types of 
investments and common hallmarks of scams. 
Miss B has explained shes lost her life savings through this scam. Had Miss B been advised 
on the common hallmarks of investment scams, the majority of which (as Ive listed above) 
featured here, I think its more likely than not that Miss B wouldnt have proceeded with the 
payments and the scam therefore could have been stopped, preventing further losses.
I also need to consider whether Miss B ought to bear some responsibility for the losses she 
incurred. HSBC has stated Miss B ought to have done more checks before proceeding with 
any payments, and been particularly concerned when making the final payment for £10,000. 
I dont think Miss B acted unreasonably when initially making payments towards the scam  
by this point the fraudster had taken a lot of time to build Miss Bs trust, teaching her how 
cryptocurrency works and even providing her with perceived profits from her earliest 
payment. Miss B thought she could see her money being invested and her profits 
accumulating so I can understand why, without any advice on how investment scams can 
appear, this appeared very genuine to Miss B. 
However I do agree that when Miss B made the final payment of £10,000 there were further 
causes for concern that ought to have made Miss B pause and further question what she 
was being told. Miss B acknowledges the behaviour the fraudsters used when requesting 
this final payment was threatening  which I think shouldve alerted Miss B that something 
may be amiss. I think Miss B ought to have asked further questions after receiving this request  such as why taxes couldnt be released directly from her profits, why payment was 
being made to Binance rather than HMRC directly and why she hadnt been advised of this 
tax sooner. Overall, Im persuaded Miss B should bear some responsibility for this particular 
payment, as more couldve been done to assure herself this was genuine before proceeding. 
I therefore think HSBC and Miss B should be equally liable for 50% of this final payment.
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is to partially uphold this complaint and for HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund payments two to five listed above in full (totaling £27,000) 
Apply interest for payments two to five at Miss Bs savings account rate, from the 
date the payments were made until the date of settlement 
Refund 50% of the final payment of £10,000 Miss B made towards the scam 
Refund 50% of the interest Miss B paid towards the loan that funded this £10,000 
payment, from when the loan was taken out to when it was paid off 
Apply interest at Miss Bs savings account rate on the funds Miss B used to repay 
50% of her loan, from the date she paid off the loan, until the date of settlement.
Both parties have now had the chance to respond to the provisional decision. HSBC 
confirmed it had no further comments to make. Miss B accepted the provisional findings, 
although made the following further comment:
She only realised this was a scam after waiting for two hours for her profits - and the 
firm then disappearing. When Miss B spoke to the secretary involved in the scam 
and felt threatened, she thought he was rude and not good at his job. She asked to 
speak to a manager about why she was not informed at the beginning about this 
additional charge. The manager was calm and logical. At this point she still genuinely 
believed this was a legitimate firm.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no doubt that Miss B genuinely believed the payments she was making were 
legitimate at the time she transferred the funds. However what I need to consider is whether, 
in light of all the evidence available at the time, she ought reasonably to have had cause for 
concern when making the final payment and therefore ought to also be held partially 
responsible for this loss.
As the fraudster had never made Miss B aware of any requirement to pay taxes until this 
final demand for payment, coupled with the secretarys sudden change in behaviour, I think 
there were additional red flags here that ought to have made Miss B pause and conduct 
further checks. Had she done so, I think it wouldve become clear to Miss B that it was not a 
usual request for investment firms to ask for HMRC tax payments and that further caution 
should be applied. Therefore I remain of the view that a 50% split of liability for this final 
payment is fair, considering all the circumstances of the complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank PLC to:
Refund payments two to five listed above in full (totaling £27,000) 
Apply interest for payments two to five at Miss Bs savings account rate, from the 
date the payments were made until the date of settlement 
Refund 50% of the final payment of £10,000 Miss B made towards the scam 
Refund 50% of the interest Miss B paid towards the loan that funded this £10,000 
payment, from when the loan was taken out to when it was paid off 
Apply interest at Miss Bs savings account rate on the funds Miss B used to repay 
50% of her loan, from the date she paid off the loan, until the date of settlement.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman