DRN-3944458
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as Chase, have her name 
recorded incorrectly on their systems.
What happened
Mrs A doesnt have a last name. Her passport lists a series of capital letters as her first 
name  which Ill refer to as the token name  and lists Mrs As correct name as her last 
name. But Mrs As passport also includes a clear explanatory note which states that the 
token name stated as her first name on her passport isnt part of Mrs As actual name. 
Mrs A applied to Chase for a new account and was unhappy to discover that Chase had 
listed the token name as per her passport as her first name. Mrs A contacted Chase about 
this but was frustrated at the lack of help she received from Chase, as well as that Chase 
continued to list the token name incorrectly as part of her name. So, she raised a complaint.
In response, Chase explained that their systems required a first and last name to be used, 
and that a customers name must match their name as displayed on the identity documents 
used during the onboarding process  which in Mrs As case had been her passport. Mrs A 
wasnt satisfied with Chases response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel Chase had acted unfairly 
and felt the limitations of Chases systems as theyd described them were reasonable. Mrs A 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This 
means that it isnt within my remit here to declare that Chase have acted in a non-regulatory 
or unlaw way  such declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to 
potentially make. Instead, this service is an informal dispute resolution service with a remit 
focussed on fairness of outcome, as considered from an impartial perspective.
I can appreciate that Mrs A is unhappy that Chases systems cant accommodate her name 
as it correctly is. But I hope that Mrs A can similarly appreciate that her name  being a 
singular first name with no last name  is unusual when considered against UK naming 
conventions, which almost always include both a first and a last name.
Chase have explained that their systems simply arent designed to allow a customer name to 
be input without both a first and a last name. This seems reasonable to me, given what Ive 
explained above, and I dont feel that Chase have acted unfairly by having a system that 
wont allow a singular name to be recorded and maintained without a second name.
It also must be noted that Mrs As passport lists her first name as the token name. So, it 
seems clear that the UK Passport Agency employs a system with similar restrictions. And, 
while the nature of a passport is such that an explanatory note can be added, the nature of a 
bank account is such that this would be neither possible nor appropriate. 
Chase have also explained that its included in their terms that a customers name must 
match the name as given on their identity documents. In this case, the identity document that 
Mrs A supplied was her passport. And given Chases terms here  which Mrs A agreed to 
when opening her account with Chase  I dont feel that its unreasonable that Chase record 
Mrs As name in line with that as listed on her passport, given their system requirements. 
Mrs A has suggested that Chase change her name so that her first and last name are both 
listed as her correct name, rather than using the token name as listed on her passport. But I 
dont feel its within the remit of this service to instruct Chase to go against their terms as Mrs 
A would like here, especially as Mrs As name would still be incorrect in this scenario.
Im also satisfied Chase have done all they reasonably can to try to accommodate Mrs As 
request to have her correct name listed on her account. I say this because Chase referred 
Mrs As request to the appropriate persons within the business who then confirmed that Mrs 
As request wasnt one that could be accommodated by Chases systems. Chase have also 
updated Mrs As preferred name on her account to her correct name  which will inform 
Chase staff of how to correctly address Mrs A  and confirmed that Mrs As debit card can 
be customised to her correct name. 
Finally, while I appreciate Mrs As frustrations that Chases telephone staff were unable to 
help her, I feel that this was unfortunately reasonable, given the unusual nature of Mrs As 
request and that it ultimately wasnt one that Chase were able to meet.
All of which means that I dont feel that Chase have acted unfairly towards Mrs A here, and it 
follows therefore that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Chase to take any 
further action. I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs A was wanting, but I hope she will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman