DRN-3233604
The complaint
Mr P complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC provided her with a loan she couldnt afford to 
repay.
What happened
AvantCredit provided Mr P with two loans. The first, on 25 August 2015 was for £11,100, 
repayable over 60 months at the monthly rate of £432.50, paid off by May 2016. The second, 
on 24 May 2016 was for £5,000 repayable over 24 months at the rate of £275.72, paid off in 
November 2016.
Mr P says he struggled to pay the loans and had to borrow more money to pay off each loan. 
He was self-employed and on a variable income but says he wasnt asked for proof of 
income or bank statements.
AvantCredit said Mr P provided it with details of his financial circumstances in his loan 
applications. It considered this information and verified the income amounts you provided 
against information available to it from the Credit Reference Agencies. It obtained a recent 
bank statement for both loans. It assessed that the loans were affordable in both cases.
Mr P has provided a recent credit report and bank statements covering the period of both 
loans, from May 2015 to July 2016.
Our adjudicator said that for both loans it was unlikely Mr P wouldve been able to 
sustainably repay either of them. He said it was irresponsible for AvantCredit to have 
approved the loans based on what it knew of Mr Ps circumstances when he made his 
application. He said Avant Credit should repay all the interest and charges for both loans.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr P would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ps ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr P undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
The first loan was for 60 months, the second for 36 months and the instalments required a 
substantial commitment from Mr P. So I think AvantCredit needed to carry out thorough 
assessments. 
loan1
AvantCredit obtained recent bank statements for both loans. And I can see that those 
statements showed a regular income from Mr Ps occupation. I think that his income was 
sufficiently verified. However the statements at the time of the loan application showed Mr P 
to be consistently running a high overdraft and not managing to reduce it. The credit check 
showed that Mr P at the time had six accounts in default. The statements show a consistent 
pattern of borrowing from finance companies and other sources. I think that AvantCredit did 
do proportionate checks, but those checks should have alerted it to carry out more detailed 
financial checks, especially in light of the amount of the loan and the time period over which 
it was to be repaid. So I dont think that AvantCredit made a fair lending decision.
 
loan 2From Mr Ps bank statements it appears that the £11,100 from the first loan was used up 
and the account went back into overdraft. It appears that the loan was used to pay off a 
personal debt. And the account shows that Mr P paid off loan 1 in two tranches, in March 
and May 2016. He paid that off by further borrowing  AvantCredit should have been able to 
see this from his statements. Having paid off one substantial loan, he then set about 
obtaining another loan, this time for £5,000 from AvantCredit. Its not clear what the purpose 
of this loan was, but it is clear that Mr Ps account went back into overdraft, which again he 
wasnt repaying. I think that taking into account that Mr Ps financial situation hadnt 
improved since the first loan (he still had six accounts in default), on the face of it the loan 
was unlikely to be sustainable. And I think AvantCredits checks should have alerted it to 
carry out more detailed financial checks. I dont think that AvantCredit made a fair lending 
decision.
Putting things right
Its fair and reasonable that Mr P should pay the capital sum of the loan back, as he has had 
the benefit of it. But I think AvantCredit should repay all interest and charges from the 
amount paid under the loan agreement.
AvantCredit should:
refund all interest and charges Mr P paid on both loans.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date(s) they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement.*
remove any negative information if appropriate about the loans from Mr Ps credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman