DRN-2214685
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs Z complain that Penrith Building Society went back on its agreement to give 
them a mortgage. As a result they incurred costs relating to their abandoned purchase.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs Z needed a specialist mortgage because of the way Mr Ps salary was paid. 
Penrith was one of the limited number of lenders offering such a product. So Mr P and Mrs Z 
approached Penrith. It told them that it was prepared to lend them what they needed.
When Mr P and Mrs Z found a property they wanted to buy, the estate agent asked for an 
agreement in principle (AIP), to show that they were able to complete the purchase. Penrith 
said it didnt offer AIPs, but said it would send an email confirming how much it could lend. 
Mr P and Mrs Z instructed solicitors in relation to their purchase and put in an application to 
Penrith for the mortgage. But Penrith declined the application.
Mr P and Mrs Z complain:
Penrith doesnt have a formal process for this type of mortgage.
They gave Penrith complete and truthful information to Penrith in their application. It isnt 
acceptable to decline an application without giving a reason where the potential 
borrowers have provided all of the information Penrith asked for and it indicates it will 
approve the application.
Penrith has already refunded the application fee of £249. Mr P and Mrs Z want Penrith to 
reimburse them for the £792 in costs they incurred.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt consider that Penrith 
had made an error or treated Mr P and Mrs Z unfairly.
Mr P and Mrs Z didnt accept what the investigator said. They made a number of points, 
including that their complaint isnt about the application being declined, but rather about 
Penriths process. A borrower should have the certainty of having a mortgage in place before 
they make an offer on a property. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr P and Mrs Z thought that Penrith had given them a firm commitment to 
lend them as much as they needed to buy a home. Ive looked carefully at the information 
given to Mr P and Mrs Z. I think it is difficult for me to say that anything Penrith said 
constituted an irrevocable commitment to give Mr P and Mrs Z a mortgage. 
I can see that Penrith made its initial assessment based on details of Mr P and Mrs Zs 
income and expenditure, and copies of their payslips. It said that Mr P and Mrs Z met its 
affordability criteria. It goes on to say if they want to progress their enquiry they should 
arrange a mortgage fact find appointment. 
Mr P and Mrs Z were given mortgage advice. They were given the recommendation report, 
titled Your Mortgage Requirements. It said, as is relevant the mortgage offer is subject to 
valuation and production of documentation to support your application, Mortgage Illustration 
and/or a decision in principle does not constitute an offer of a mortgage. I note that the 
mortgage illustration sets out clearly and prominently that This document does not 
constitute an obligation for Penrith Building Society to grant you a loan.
The email from Penrith to the estate agent said that providing there are no material changes 
to Mr Ps circumstances it was happy to progress this to full application. Again, I dont 
consider this could reasonably be taken to mean that the application had been approved  
merely that if nothing changed Penrith was happy to consider a full application.
When Penrith considered the full application from Mr P and Mrs Z it declined it. Penrith has 
given a number of reasons why it might decline an application  there is no obligation for it to 
tell a potential borrower why an application had been declined. Im satisfied the decision it 
made was fair and reasonable and it wasnt required to tell Mr P and Mrs Z anything else.
I understand Mr P and Mrs Zs point that they thought their application was likely to succeed 
and they started the process of buying a house based on that. That was their decision. But I 
cant see that Penrith had told them it would definitely approve their application. It was their 
decision to proceed without a formal offer in place. So I dont consider Penrith should pay 
the costs they incurred.
Penriths process is in line with many if not most mortgage lenders. It gives an informal 
indication of how much it is prepared to lend based on a basic amount of information. It then 
carries out more detailed checks  some of which it is required to do under the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Mortgage and Home Finance : Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(MCOB). If it is satisfied with the information it has been given it will issue a mortgage offer. 
The offer is usually binding apart from in very limited circumstances, in line with MCOB. But 
as no formal offer was issued in this case Penrith wasnt obliged to lend to Mr P and Mrs Z. 
One of the things that I must take into account in deciding what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of a case is the relevant rules and regulations. I 
note Mr Ps concerns that there should be regulations to safeguard potential borrowers. But 
as I have explained, there are rules in place to prevent lenders going back on their word  
but it Is not until a formal offer has been issued. So I dont consider Penrith acted unfairly in 
the individual circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman