DRN-3221587
The complaint
A company, which Ill call T, is unhappy Society of Lloyd's (SoL) has declined a claim it 
made under a liability policy for the loss of a document.
Mr Q, a director of T, makes the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Q has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered carefully everything hes said. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have 
raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by 
T and by SoL, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of 
the case.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator that the case should 
not be upheld. I do so for the following reasons:
Under the lost documents section of the policy, loss via theft is not covered. Mr Q 
initially reported the pen drive and hard copy document as having been stolen in 
separate incidents. I think SoL is entitled to rely on the initial submissions Mr Q gave 
and it was reasonable for it to decline the claim under that section of the policy. 
Loss by theft is specifically referred to in other sections of the policy document 
therefore I am satisfied the lost documents section isnt intended to cover loss via 
theft. 
Even if loss via theft was covered under that section, it would be for T to provide SoL 
with sufficient evidence which satisfies SoL of the value of the loss. At present SoL 
has indicated it is concerned that T hasnt satisfactorily substantiated the value of the 
loss incurred and asked for further information. So, here, even if I had of concluded 
the loss was covered, which I havent, the position of the claim would be the same as 
SoL would still be entitled to refuse to meet the claim until it is satisfied of the value of 
the loss. 
Ive considered if the loss could be covered under other sections of the policy, 
namely the contents section. However, this section confirms valuable papers, which I 
think this document could reasonably be classed as, are not considered to be 
contents. The section also includes exclusions relating to loss of data and value of 
lost data. So, Im satisfied its more likely than not, no cover would be provided under 
this section of the policy either. 
For the reasons above, I think SoL have acted fairly and reasonable in how it has dealt with 
Ts claim. I wont therefore be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Ts complaint against Society of Lloyd's.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman