DRN-2219688
The complaint
Mrs H  on behalf of Company A  complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) have mishandled its legal expenses insurance claim and 
have applied an incorrect level of indemnity.
NFU use intermediaries to manage claims and administer their legal expenses insurance on 
their behalf, so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including 
the acts or omissions of such intermediaries.
What happened
Company A owns a farm and holds a Farm Select policy with NFU, which provides cover for 
legal expenses for contractual disputes amongst other things. 
Company A submitted a claim to NFU for assistance with a legal dispute in June 2018. The 
dispute arose out of a contract for the purchase of an aviary system (the equipment) from 
the defendant of the legal action (the defendant), which Company A purchased in 2014. 
The equipment comprised of nesting boxes for around 66,000 hens and also automated the 
process of egg collection.
Company A complained to the defendant in March 2015 as it said a large proportion of its 
eggs were either broken, cracked or contaminated after being collected through the 
equipment. It said there was a serious flaw in the system. The defendant initially suggested 
that the issue was with the hens diet and that changes were needed to strengthen the egg 
shells. However, the defendant subsequently carried out an inspection of the equipment in 
May 2015 and identified a drop of 10cm to 11cm, which was suspected as being the main 
cause of the issue. Company A said the equipment was not fit for purpose.
The defendant implemented a temporary repair but said it would not be able to permanently 
fix the issue until 2016 at the end of the lifecycle of the flock. As a gesture of goodwill, the 
defendant paid £30,000 to compensate Company A in recognition of the defect.
A further repair was eventually implemented in February 2016, but reportedly made little 
difference to the damage sustained by the eggs. It wasnt until April 2018 that one of 
Company As buyers attended with a Crackless Egg which runs through the system and 
records bumps, drops and g-force. After using the technology, Company A identified that it 
was the significant drop within the system that was most likely causing the damage, so it 
issued a claim against the defendant for breach of contract. 
NFU accepted the claim and applied a £100,000 limit of indemnity. Company A said this was 
incorrect, as its policy schedule stated the sum insured as being £250,000. NFU explained 
that the applicable level of indemnity is that which was in place at the time the dispute arose. 
They said that the evidence from Company As solicitors showed that the dispute arose in 
March 2015, which was taken as being the date of occurrence for the purposes of the policy, 
and at that point the applicable level of indemnity was £100,000. Company A complained 
because it said the date of occurrence was April 2018 when it used the Crackless Egg to 
diagnose the problem. It said it was only at this point that it had the technology to discover 
the design flaw and provide proof of the issue, and that they could not rule out other potential 
causes before this (such as the hens diet and weak egg shells). The insurer refused to 
instate the higher indemnity limit and the claim proceeded with an indemnity of £100,000. 
Company A subsequently applied to the court for a freezing order and expediated trial as it 
was concerned that the defendant would enter into liquidation if the legal claim was 
successful. However, this was denied by the court in a preliminary hearing of 
September 2019, when Company A was ordered to pay the defendants costs of the hearing, 
which were assessed at £27,500. NFU were notified by Company As solicitor and were 
asked to make payment to the defendant, but the insurer missed the deadline to pay the 
costs.
A further cost order of £20,000 was also made against Company A following the withdrawal 
of its application  with payment of the total costs due to be paid on 29 October 2019. The 
solicitor informed NFU and also explained that the £100,000 level of indemnity had since 
been exceeded with costs and disbursements. But again, no payment was made by the 
insurer within the deadline.
The defendant eventually applied to the court for security of costs as it was concerned that 
Company A would be unable to meet the cost orders. The defendants application for 
security was approved by the court on 7 November 2019, where the judge was critical of 
Company A for failing to make payment beforehand. It was ordered to pay £90,000 into the 
court by March 2020.
Company A complained that NFUs failure to pay the cost orders in a timely fashion had 
harmed its case and caused the judge to find against it in the defendants application for 
security of costs. It said this has caused significant hardship and caused a great deal of 
stress and anxiety. Company A said that the failure to apply the correct indemnity had also 
damaged its case, leading the judge to find that it would not likely be able to pay the costs. 
As a result, Company A submit that NFU should grant the correct indemnity of £250,000 and 
also compensate it for the harm caused to its case by the late payment of the cost orders. 
NFU maintained that its decision to designate the date of occurrence as March 2015 was 
correct, such that the correct level of indemnity had been applied. However, it noted that 
payment of the cost orders had not been made in a timely fashion, for which they apologised 
and offered £850 compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that NFU had fairly 
designated the date of occurrence as being March 2015 as Company A could reasonably 
have been expected to become aware of the breach of contract at that point. The 
investigator acknowledged that NFUs delay in making payment had likely contributed to the 
judge accepting the defendants security for costs application but did not think it was the only 
reason. So she thought that the compensation offered was fair for the inconvenience 
caused. Company A disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Level of IndemnityI appreciate that the level of indemnity was set at £250,000 when Company A made its 
claim. But the relevant date to consider for the level of indemnity is the sum that was in place 
at the date of occurrence of the claim. The policy terms and conditions define this as:
For contractual disputes, the date of occurrence is when the insured person could 
reasonably be expected to become aware of the breach of contract.
Company A submits that it only became aware of the breach after using the Crackless Egg 
technology, which confirmed that it was the drop within the system that was causing the 
damage, rather than anything related to the health of the hens or the quality of the feed etc. 
But there are several reasons why I consider they could reasonably have been expected to 
become aware of the breach in 2015.
First, I note that on the claim form Company A itself stated that the dispute first started in 
March 2015, as did the solicitor in the claims management report, because it was at this 
point that Company A had complained to the defendant about the high volumes of 
damaged/contaminated eggs emerging from the equipment. 
The particulars of claim submitted to the court also include an email sent from Company A to 
the defendant on 22 March 2015 complaining about the problem, where it said: 
Under the Sale of Goods Act 1979 section 14, the new egg laying system is not fit 
for purposeThis new system has now been in production for 6 months and the 
problem of far too many cracks has not been resolved and we have already taken 
enough of a financial hit. We know there is a fundamental flaw in the design of this 
egg system installed by [the defendant]We expect [the defendant] to refund the 
money of purchasing this equipment, alter the system to a satisfactory production 
output, replace the system and compensate.
So it seems clear from this that Company A suspected that there was a fundamental flaw in 
the equipment and that it was not fit for purpose  i.e. it had cause to believe that the 
defendant had breached the contract by supplying defective goods. Company A say that the 
Crackless Egg technology identified that the damage to the eggs was being caused by a 
significant drop within the system. But the particulars of claim set out that the defendant had 
already identified this in May 2015:
In or about May 2015 the Defendant carried out an inspection of the Aviary Systems. 
The Defendant considered that the drop of 10cm to 11cm from the left hand nest 
boxes to the right hand nest boxes was the main cause of the problems..
So, while I appreciate the Crackless Egg provided more conclusive evidence of the problem 
being with the equipment, it seems to have only served to confirm what the defendant had 
originally identified when it inspected the machinery in May 2015  i.e. that a significant drop 
was causing the issues. So I do not accept that Company A was only in a position to 
discover the flaw in the system in 2018 as it had been brought to its attention some three 
years prior. The fault identified by the defendant also led to it paying £30,000 compensation 
to Company A  suggesting it had also accepted that the equipment was flawed.
The drop within the system has further been categorised as a breach of contract within the 
particulars of claim:
It is averred that the Defendant is in breach of contract and/or breach of duty of care.
PARTICULARS OF BREACH(i) The drop for the upper left-hand floor of the Aviary system varies between 
10cm and 11cm, which is unacceptably high and causes cracking and 
breaking (any drop over 6cm would be unacceptably high).
Company A has clearly said that any drop above 6cm is unacceptable, and that the drop of 
10cm-11cm is unacceptably high and constitutes a breach of contract. So, given that 
Company A was made aware of the unacceptable drop in May 2015, I think it could 
reasonably have been expected to become aware of the breach of contract by this point at 
the very least (indeed, it has categorised it as such in the particulars of claim), if not sooner 
in March 2015.
I therefore do not consider NFU to have acted unreasonably by designating 2015 as the date 
of occurrence, meaning that the correct level of indemnity has been applied by the insurer at 
£100,000 given that this was in place at the relevant time.  
Company A states that section 14A of the Limitation Act 1980 enables a negligence claim to 
be brought outside the usual six-year limitation period if the claimant did not have the 
requisite knowledge to bring a claim any earlier or could not have attributed the damage to 
the defendants acts or omissions. I understand the principle of the argument being made in 
this instance, but I do not think it makes a difference. First, this legislation is applicable to the 
statutory time limits in which to bring a claim for negligence  not for what can reasonably be 
considered as the date of occurrence under an insurance policy for a breach of contract. 
The policy has its own definition of what constitutes the relevant date, and regard must be 
had to the contract of insurance in the first instance, rather than using legislation to introduce 
an alternative interpretation. In any event, I think Company A did have the requisite 
knowledge to bring a claim in 2015 for the reasons I have already explained. So I dont think 
section 14A would grant them any longer under the Limitation Act 1980 in these 
circumstances anyway.
I note that Counsel (in an email of 30 September 2019) was also of the opinion that a claim 
ought to have commenced in 2015. He said there was a very powerful argument against 
Company A that it delayed bringing the claim by three years, and that a court would 
objectively consider that it should have contacted a solicitor and commenced a claim in 
2015. This provides further grounds for treating 2015 as the date of occurrence and, in 
addition to the reasons already set out, Im satisfied that NFU have acted reasonably in 
doing so.
Delayed payment of the cost orders
Company A submit that NFUs failure to pay the defendants costs in line with the deadline 
set by the court had harmed its case and caused the judge to find against it in the 
defendants application for security of costs.
Having considered the evidence, it does seem that NFUs delayed payment of the cost 
orders did in part prompt the defendant to pursue the security of costs application  but so 
too did the matter of the level of indemnity available under the policy as well as Company As 
current financial position and ability to meet the costs. In the judgment handed down on 
7 November 2019, the judge commented that the initial cost orders (totalling £47,500) meant 
that almost half of the indemnity would be used up, and that there was evidence to suggest 
that the indemnity limit had already been exceeded at that point in costs and disbursements. 
The judge concluded that there was good reason to believe that Company A would be 
unable to pay the defendants costs and found that it was appropriate to make an order for 
security. But having considered the judgment, Im not persuaded that the proximate cause of 
the defendant seeking security for costs can solely be attributed to NFUs failure to pay the cost orders on time, as there were several factors taken into account by the judge when 
making the order (such as Company As impecuniosity and the lack of information provided 
about its legal expenses insurance policy for example). It therefore seems likely the 
defendant wouldve always sought this order notwithstanding NFUs delay in paying costs. 
So Im not satisfied that it was NFUs acts or omissions alone that resulted in Company A 
having to make a £90,000 payment into the court as a result of the security for costs order.  
I do appreciate, however, that NFUs handling of the matter has been poor, and has no 
doubt caused a significant degree of distress and inconvenience to Mrs H personally. But the 
policyholder (and complainant) in these circumstances is Company A  not Mrs H as an 
individual. So I cant award compensation based on any distress she may have personally 
experienced as a result of NFUs failings, and can only consider the inconvenience caused 
to the company as the eligible complainant. NFU has offered £850 compensation in 
recognition of its poor handling of the payment of the cost orders, which I consider to be fair 
compensation for the inconvenience it likely caused Company A. So I will not be directing 
the insurer to make any further award.
My final decision
The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited have made an offer to pay a 
total of £850.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
NFU should pay Company A (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of receiving 
its acceptance of this decision.
Company A should note that if it accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, 
and it probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, it rejects the decision, although Company As legal rights will 
remain intact, itll purely be a matter between Company A and NFU as to whether the £850 
offer still remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the 
offeror after rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H  on behalf 
of Company A  to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman