DRN-4077073
The complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) did not return a 
credit balance to him for months after he left them.
What happened
Mr C says he left Amex in July 2021, but they didnt inform him he had a credit balance of 
£12.28 for months. He said they last emailed him a statement on 6 July 2021. Mr C says 
Amex emailed him and asked him to call them back for the credit balance in early 2022 and 
they finally refunded him the credit balance in May 2022. Mr C complained to Amex.
Amex did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. They said that when his account was closed in July 
2021, this left his account in credit due to a pro-rata refund of his annual membership fee. 
They said that since August 2021, he had been advised of this on each of his monthly 
statements, which Amex said were correctly issued to him. Mr C brought his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. She said Amex confirmed their process is 
to continue to issue statements each month for an account that is closed but remains in 
credit. This is an automated system for them, and statements are automatically generated. 
They also confirmed their process is not to automatically transfer a balance credit but only to 
notify customers via letters and statements. She said Amex also sent Mr C three letters 
about the credit balance on 5 February 2022, 20 February 2023 and 7 March 2022. 
Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary he said Amex did not let him know their process when his account was left in 
credit, so he couldnt realise whether they followed their process. He said Amex explained 
that the refund was not being processed at the time of the phone call and the letter. He said 
the refund was processed on 31 July 2021, but they sent him a letter dated 2 August 2021 
which said as he didnt have an outstanding balance, then he wouldnt receive any more 
statements from them, which he says was wrong information. Mr C said that Amex did not 
follow their process to continue issuing statements each month as they emailed him when he 
changed to paperless statements in July 2020, but they didnt inform him when they reverted 
him to paper billing. Mr C said that Amex claimed they sent his statements after the account 
closure by post, but they were unable to provide proof of postage for these statements. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Id like to explain to Mr C that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their processes or procedures such as how they should process refunds on closed accounts 
in credit. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the 
power to instruct Amex to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Both parties do not agree on some of the points made here. When it comes to complaints 
where its one word against another, I have to consider the evidence available to me. I then 
have to weigh the evidence against the balance of probabilities, that is, whats more likely to 
have happened in the circumstances.
It's not in dispute that Mr C asked for his Amex account to be closed on 31 July 2021. Mr C 
says that the call handler he spoke to on this date didnt tell him that the refund was not 
being processed at the time of the call. Factually, the credit for the pro rata of his 
membership fee was processed on 31 July 2021, but it is not clear at what time this was. Its 
probable that the refund would only take place after the account had been cancelled. And 
therefore the call handler may not have been aware of this on the phone, otherwise, it is 
likely on the balance of probabilities that he would have told Mr C about this, and then ask 
him where he wanted it paid to - as Amex do not automatically pay credit balances to an 
account. This would be why the call handler wouldnt have been able to tell him their process 
when his account was left in credit. 
Ive looked at the letter Amex sent to Mr C on 2 August 2021. The letter was correct that Mr 
C did not have an outstanding balance  as he did not owe them any money. But the letter 
also states he would not receive any statements from them which wasnt correct as Amex 
would be obliged to send him at least a final statement. Although the letter on 2 August 2021 
was tailored to an account which wasnt in credit, Im not persuaded that compensation 
should be paid to Mr C just because this says he wouldnt receive any statements from 
them. I say this as the credit agreement sets out that Amex would send a statement if there 
was any account activity. So as the 31 July 2021 credit to his account would class as an 
activity on his account, this is why Im satisfied Amex would send Mr C a statement 
regarding this. Mr C was told on the call on 31 July 2021 that his card would be no longer 
functional including his online account.
Mr C would be able to see from the statement issued on 5 August 2021, that the account 
was in credit. This statement shows it covers the statement period from 6 July-5 August 
2021 and says Your account is cancelled and has a credit balance. Please call us if you 
would like a refund. Normally I would expect Amex to send this statement to Mr C via his 
chosen method of communication  an online statement. However, since his account was 
closed, Amex have confirmed to us that he would not be able to see his statements online 
and this is why they would send a statement via post to him. Although Mr C says they didnt 
tell him they reverted to paper billing, Im not persuaded it would be proportionate for them to 
send him a special notification regarding this as this would be apparent when they sent the 
paper statement.
I can see the August statement shows the same address that is on Mr Cs credit agreement 
and the same address that he gave to our service. I know Mr C disputes Amex sent this to 
him as they cant provide him proof of postage, but there is no requirement that they need to 
obtain proof of postage for the communications they send to their customers (including 
statements). So while Amex cant provide this, Im not persuaded that this equates to Amex 
not sending the statement(s). On the balance of probabilities, its unlikely that Amex 
produced a statement and didnt send it to Mr C despite the credit agreement showing that 
they would need to send Mr C a statement due to the activity on the account. 
In addition, Amex have told us that statements continue to be issued if there is a credit or 
debit balance. So this is why they continued producing statements for Mr C. Again, these 
would need to be sent by post due to Mr Cs account being closed. So if Mr C did not receive 
these statements which told him his account was cancelled, had a credit balance and to call them if he would like a refund, then I cant hold Amex responsible for any issues with the 
postal system. 
As Amex did not hear from Mr C they sent him communications on 5 February, 20 February 
and 7 March 2022 regarding the credit balance. Im satisfied that Mr C received at least one 
of the February communications as he told the call handler on a call on 18 May 2022 that I 
received your email this February. So although Mr C confirmed he received the email in 
February, it was months later when he contacted them about the refund. Mr C contacted 
them on 4 May 2022 for the credit balance and the balance was issued on 5 May 2022. So 
Im satisfied that when Mr C did contact Amex, they processed the refund in a timely 
manner, so it follows I dont require Amex to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman