DRN-1986373
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has handled two claims he 
made on a travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S was abroad as part of a multi-leg short trip. One of his flights was cancelled and as Mr 
S wasnt going to be able to continue with his plans, he arranged an earlier return flight to 
the UK. He made a claim under his travel insurance policy for some of his unused expenses 
and the additional expenses he incurred.
ERGO initially wrongly considered Mr S claim under the cancellation section of the policy 
and turned it down. But it ultimately settled part of his claim under the additional travel 
disruption cover which Mr S had bought as an add-on to his policy. It reimbursed Mr S for 
the additional expenses hed paid out as a result of his flight being cancelled.
Mr S later made another claim on his policy for a damaged phone, which ERGO ultimately 
accepted and settled in line with the policy limits.
But Mr S wasnt happy with the way ERGO had handled either of his claims. He felt hed 
made it clear upfront whatd happened during the first claim and that it wasnt up to him to 
know what section of the policy he should claim under. ERGO had sent him a cancellation 
claim form, rather than the right forms. He also didnt feel it was reasonable to expect 
policyholders to read long policy documents to establish exactly what was covered. And Mr 
S said after hed made the second claim, hed been left in limbo with no updates. He hadnt 
been told he needed to provide further information to support his claim. 
ERGO acknowledged itd made mistakes in the way itd handled Mr S first claim. But it felt it 
had settled the claim correctly. And it said that when Mr S made his second claim online, itd 
sent him an emailing asking for supporting evidence, which it hadnt received. Once it had 
the information it needed, itd paid the claim promptly. It offered Mr S £50 compensation for 
the errors it had made.
Mr S didnt accept ERGOs offer and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought ERGOs offer of compensation was fair. She acknowledged that 
thered been delays it considering Mr S first claim; itd sent him the wrong claim form and 
then wrongly turned down the claim. So she thought it was appropriate for ERGO to pay Mr 
S some compensation. But she thought Mr S did have some responsibility to familiarise 
himself with the policy terms. And she thought it was most likely ERGO had sent Mr S a 
request for supporting information after he registered the second claim. So overall, she felt 
£50 was fair compensation for ERGOs mistakes.
Mr S disagreed. He felt the investigator had accepted all the mistakes itd made with the first 
claim because itd eventually correctly settled it. He wasnt happy that shed found it was 
most likely ERGO had sent him the information request. He felt ERGO had known he had a 
valid claim but had tried to fob him off. He didnt feel ordinary customers should have to read 
long policy documents before an insurer will pay out.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think ERGOs offer of compensation is fair. Ill explain why.
Insurers have a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims 
unreasonably. So Ive considered how ERGO handled Mr S claims and whether I think it 
met its regulatory obligations.
The travel disruption claim
Its common ground that ERGO made mistakes in the way it handled Mr S travel disruption 
claim. While ERGO hasnt been able to provide me with a copy of the calls Mr S made to 
make his claim; I dont think that makes a difference here. I think its likely that Mr S 
explained the circumstances of his claim and the call handler wrongly assumed Mr S was 
looking to make a cancellation claim. I think thats likely what prompted ERGO to send Mr S 
a cancellation claim form rather than the right form for his type of claim.
And its unfortunate that ERGO incorrectly looked at Mr S claim under the cancellation 
section of the policy, rather than the travel disruption section. Especially because I think his 
policy documents made it clear that Mr S had paid for additional cover. So it mightve been 
reasonable for ERGO to look at the claim more widely and discover at an earlier stage that 
the claim shouldve been looked at by another part of its business.
So I do think ERGO has made clear errors in the handling of the claim. I dont think it 
responded to Mr S as quickly as it couldve done. And I think it caused further delays in the 
claim being settled when the claim wasnt placed with the right department as soon as it 
couldve been. I think these delays and errors did cause Mr S a degree of upset and 
inconvenience. And I think its appropriate for ERGO to recognise these errors by paying him 
some compensation.
But it isnt our role to punish or fine the businesses we cover. We look at the individual 
circumstances of a complaint and think about the overall impact on a consumer if a business 
has done something wrong. In this case, despite ERGOs mistakes, it appears Mr S claim 
was settled broadly around two months after he made it. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mr S to have reviewed the policy documentation to check if his particular 
circumstances were covered during the life of the claim. So overall, I think £50 is fair 
compensation to recognise ERGOs service failings in its handling of this claim.
The mobile phone claim
ERGO says that Mr S registered the phone claim online on 22 September 2019. It was paid 
out on 4 November 2019  around six weeks later. Mr S says he was left in limbo and wasnt 
asked for any supporting documents. ERGOs provided an example of the information 
request it says wouldve been sent, although it cant show us it was sent in Mr S case. Its 
unfortunate ERGO cant provide us with this piece of evidence. It seems to me more likely 
than not though that an information request would be automatically generated and sent if an 
online claim was made. But even if I accept the request wasnt sent, I dont think it makes a difference to the overall 
outcome of Mr S complaint. I say that because when Mr S chased up the claim, he was 
quickly advised what information he needed to send in and the claim was settled very 
promptly. So even though I appreciate chasing things up wouldve been frustrating for Mr S, I 
would still have thought £50 compensation overall was enough to take this chase-up into 
account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that ERGO Reiseversicherung AGs 
offer of compensation is fair.
ERGO Reiseversicherung AG must now pay Mr S £50 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman