DRN-3835766
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Al Rayan Bank PLC wouldnt release all the money she held in a 
restricted fixed term deposit account.
What happened
Mrs G held a one-year fixed term deposit account with Al Rayan. It had a balance of around 
£80,000.
 
In August 2022, a few months before the maturity date, she requested early access to the 
full balance. She explained that her circumstances had changed, and now she needed the 
capital.
  
Al Rayan initially said that the terms of the account were clear; no access to the capital was 
permitted until the maturity date. But it did also explain that there was an exceptions process 
 it would just need some further information from Mrs G first to assess her circumstances.
 
Mrs G told Al Rayan that she needed the capital for some necessary outgoings  specifically 
a new heating system and some car repairs. Mrs G also said shed incurred credit card debt, 
reaching her credit limit, which shed like to repay.
 
Moreover, Mrs G said she was self-employed but was currently unable to work. She was 
unwell with Covid-19 and would shortly be having an operation from which shed need to 
recover. Given she couldnt work, Mrs G wanted to reinvest all her capital at a higher rate of 
interest elsewhere and said the greater return shed receive would then act as income.
 
Having considered Mrs Gs circumstances, Al Rayan ultimately agreed to let her access 
£40,000. Mrs G says she had no choice but to accept this amount given her situation, but 
she remained unhappy with how shed been treated. So, she complained.
 
In summary, Mrs G said Al Rayan hadnt treated her fairly; that it hadnt complied with the 
expectations of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  specifically Covid-19 provisions and 
Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) principles  and that it had poorly administered her request 
and subsequent complaints.
 
In its final response, Al Rayan said that allowing Mrs G access to £40,000 was more than 
generous. So, it was satisfied that its decision was a fair one. There were some 
administrative aspects which Al Rayan said it couldve handled better than it had, and it 
offered a total of £75 in compensation to recognise those failings. 
Mrs G remained unhappy, so she contacted our service for an independent review. An 
investigator here looked at what had happened and, while he could understand Mrs Gs 
perspective, he didnt think Al Rayan had acted unfairly in the circumstances.
 
He said the terms and conditions of Mrs Gs account were quite clear; no access was 
permitted to the capital until maturity of the account. Even so, the bank had listened to 
Mrs Gs request and thought about her wider circumstances. It had then offered a 
reasonable compromise to release a significant sum of money so Mrs G could meet her 
expenses.
 
Mrs G disagreed, reiterating that Al Rayan had failed in its duty to meet the regulators 
expectations. She also said that she would have no other income if she wasnt able to invest 
the full capital amount elsewhere at a higher interest rate. Lastly, Mrs G continued to 
express her unhappiness at how Al Rayan had handled things. So, she asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has raised several complaint points with Al Rayan. I have read everything shes said 
and provided, however in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ive 
focussed here on what I consider to be the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable.
Did Al Rayan handle Mrs Gs request appropriately and in-line with applicable guidance?
Ive considered here what Al Rayan did, and ought to have done, in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint with the appropriate rules and guidance in mind.
To begin with, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Gs fixed term deposit account 
to see what they say about access to the capital. Having done so, Im satisfied Al Rayan 
make it clear that access isnt permitted. Thats succinctly explained in the following 
passage:
The account is available for a term, during which you will not have access to your deposit 
amount before the payment date of your account.
Al Rayan does, though, have an exceptions process. Id expect it to; life events can occur at 
a moments notice  and customers may very well need access to money they previously 
thought they could set aside. I think it was right of Al Rayan to consider Mrs Gs request 
under that process, so Im pleased to see that it did.
 
To support her request Mrs G referred Al Rayan to statements issued by the FCA on the 
Covid-19 pandemic, and the principles of the TCF initiative. Ive looked at that, and I think of 
particular relevance here is the FCAs expectations for restricted accounts like Mrs Gs. 
It says:
Customers may contact firms asking to withdraw funds from these accounts. As ever we 
would expect firms to:
pay due regard to the interests of their customers and treat them fairly 
communicate in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading, and
consider the needs of vulnerable customers in their actions or communications.Meeting these obligations does not require firms to offer access to all customers, or to offer 
unlimited access to funds in a restricted-access account. Firms are free to form a judgement 
on a case by case basis, balancing their customers needs with their own obligations... 
Put plainly, then, businesses should consider the circumstances of the customer and form a 
judgement. But theres no obligation to offer customers unlimited access to funds held in 
accounts like Mrs Gs. So, the fact that Al Rayan did not allow Mrs G to withdraw all of the 
funds in her account when asked does not automatically mean that it did something wrong.
Al Rayan has demonstrated that it listened to what Mrs G had to say; considered her 
circumstances and formed a judgement, which it then clearly communicated. All of which, in 
my view, leads me to conclude that Al Rayan adhered to the guidance Ive set out above  
and theres nothing Ive seen which suggests it didnt comply with TCF principles either.
Was Al Rayans decision  to release around half of Mrs Gs capital  fair?
On the one hand, Mrs G said she wanted to reinvest the full amount elsewhere  at a higher 
rate of interest  so any return could act as an income while she was unable to work. On the 
other hand, though, shes suggested that she needed access to the capital because of some 
urgent expenses to pay.
Either way, I think Al Rayans decision to break the terms of the account and release 
£40,000 provided a way in which Mrs G could meet whichever of the needs shes 
mentioned. So, on balance, Im satisfied that its decision was fair. 
I say that because if Mrs G needed to use part of the capital for the urgent expenses she 
mentioned, then I think access to the amount of money Al Rayan agreed to release allowed 
for that.
 
Alternatively, if its the case that Mrs G wanted the money to help provide an income, then I 
think having access to £40,000 would more effectively achieve that over reinvesting the 
whole £80,000 amount and drawing down what would ultimately have been a relatively small 
income given the low interest rates available at the time.
Fundamentally, Al Rayan had no obligation to offer unlimited access to restricted accounts 
like Mrs Gs. Here though, by releasing £40,000, I think it has shown that it weighed up what 
Mrs G said and offered a solution which provided a way for her to supplement her income, 
meet day-to-day expenses and/or meet any larger, more urgent, expenses. So, in 
conclusion, I think it offered a fair and reasonable compromise. 
Customer service
I know Mrs G considers the questions that Al Rayan asked about her circumstances to be 
intrusive. But I dont think that Al Rayan acted inappropriately. Rather, my view is that it was 
trying to gather information to make an informed judgement about Mrs Gs request  
something it was both entitled and required to do.
 
Im aware too that Mrs G is concerned about how Al Rayan recorded the information she 
provided. Al Rayan has provided a screenshot of her customer profile, and Ive not seen any 
trace of it. So, from what I have available, at least, it appears the information Mrs G gave to Al Rayan was used solely to assess her request to access her fixed term deposit account 
early and for nothing else. I hope that provides Mrs G with some reassurance.
That said, Mrs G can contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if she feels 
Al Rayan has breached any data protection rules.
Aside from the above, its true to say that Al Rayan couldve handled some of its 
administrative duties better than it did. Poor administration can certainly be frustrating, and I 
know that Mrs G is unhappy with how long Al Rayan took to assess her request  which she 
said was most urgent.
 
It did take some time to reach a decision, but it seems most of that time was spent gathering 
the necessary information from Mrs G and assessing it. Which, overall, I dont find to be 
unreasonable.
 
In any event, Ive noted that Al Rayan has awarded Mrs G a total of £75 in compensation to 
acknowledge the administrative errors which its agreed could have been avoided. And, in 
the circumstances, I think thats a reasonable amount to recognise that things couldve been 
better. 
Overall
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that Al Rayan treated Mrs Gs request fairly 
 within the guidelines set out by the regulator  and that it reached a fair and reasonable 
decision. So, with all of that in mind, I dont require Al Rayan to do anything more and it 
follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman