DRN-2861626
The complaint
Mr L complains as a director of B, a limited company, that Allianz Insurance Plc rejected a 
claim on Bs business protection insurance policy.
What happened
B provided spa packages to customers. Its customers also had access to facilities at a 
neighbouring property. This property was run by a different business but B had an 
arrangement with them that allowed its customers to use their facilities. 
In November 2019 the neighbouring business closed. This meant B could no longer offer its 
customers the use of those facilities. B experienced a decrease in trade following this.
Mr L said when the neighbouring business closed, staff members had caused damage to the 
premises. He made a claim on Bs policy on the basis the policy included cover for this type 
of situation.
Allianz appointed a loss adjuster to investigate and after reviewing their findings rejected the 
claim. Allianz said any losses were not caused by the damage to the neighbouring property, 
and that section of the policy only provided cover where the loss arose from damage.
Mr L complained on behalf of B but Allianz didnt change its decision. When he brought the 
complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. He said: 
The relevant section of cover - loss of attraction - relates to damage to nearby 
property which affects the insureds business;
B was in effect trading from the damaged premises but hadnt insured itself properly 
in relation to this;
the loss claimed arose from not being able to trade from the closed premises rather 
than a loss of attraction claim caused by damage;
in any event, the loss was due to the neighbouring business not trading any longer, 
which was due to ongoing losses rather than damage.
Mr L disagrees and on behalf of B has requested an ombudsmans decision. He says:
Bs income came from the sale of spa packages, which included the use of the 
neighbouring business facilities, but it never had any business interest in those 
premises;
this was all known to the broker who sold the policy to B;
the landlord of the neighbouring premises has not taken possession of the premises 
or redeveloped them;
the tenant who ran the business next door intends to re-open it and when it does, B 
can then once again offer the spa packages;
in the meantime, B hasnt been able to offer use of the facilities to its customers  it 
has suffered an interference with its business due to the damage, so the claim should 
be paid as the policy includes cover for losses where damage to a neighbouring 
property leads to a loss of custom.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator referred to B having originally made a claim under a different section of the 
policy. He also commented on the fact B had changed its name and whether the change in 
business might have been relevant. Mr L has disputed his comments about these issues. 
B initially sought to claim under the denial of access section of cover. B has confirmed it 
didnt trade from the neighbouring premises. If so, it would not be able to claim for loss of 
access to that property. But in any event, the claim was ultimately considered under the loss 
of attraction section of cover and its the decision to reject that claim which is the subject of 
the complaint. As thats the crux of the matter I have focused on that decision; the complaint 
turns on whether Allianz was right to reject that claim for the reasons it gave.
The relevant section of the policy is Loss of Attraction which provides cover as follows:
Any claim resulting from interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of 
accidental loss or destruction of or damage (other than obstruction of roads, streets and the 
like by weather or climatic conditions) to property within one mile radius of the Premises 
which:
a prevents or hinders the use of the Premises, or
b causes a fall in the number of customers attracted to the Premises
So the issue I need to decide is whether B has suffered a loss due to the damage to the 
property next door which would entitle it to cover under this section. B says it has, because 
the damage to the neighbouring premises caused a fall in customers.
Allianz appointed loss adjusters who carried out enquiries into the circumstances of the 
claim. This showed that the business next door closed in late November 2019. Allianz did 
consider whether B was in effect trading from the neighbouring property, and whether that 
should have been insured. But ultimately it rejected the claim because the loss wasnt 
caused by the damage to the neighbouring property. It noted that the neighbouring business 
closed in November 2019 and the damage didnt happen until early 2020. So it concluded 
the business was going to close anyway, due to other factors; it wasnt the damage that 
caused it to close.
I think that was a reasonable conclusion for Allianz to reach. The damage only happened 
after the neighbouring business had already closed. So it wasnt the damage that caused a 
fall in the number of customers attracted to the Bs premises; it was the decision by that 
business to close. The fall in customers started when that business closed. And any ongoing 
losses were due to the owner not wishing to re-open the premises. 
On this basis Allianzs decision was in line with the policy terms and in the circumstances I 
think it was reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman