DRN-3315138
The complaint
Mrs Ms complained that Brazier Consulting Services Ltd (Brazier) charged her a success 
fee for recovering mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) from a lender  even though 
shed dealt with the lender directly. 
What happened
In 2011, Mrs M used the services of a claims management company (CMC) to claim a PPI 
refund from a business Ill call L.  She received a refund of £25,209.94 and paid the CMC a 
success fee of £9,075.58.
In 2018, Mrs M says she was contacted by Brazier to see if they could assist her in 
recovering PPI.  She explained shed already made claims.  And she regretted asking the 
CMC for assistance.  She says Braziers adviser offered to investigate whether the CMC had 
made any mistakes in the claims  which Mrs M agreed to.  She signed the paperwork 
Brazier sent her in February 2018.
A few weeks later, Brazier contacted Mrs M and told her L had refunded her £25,209.94 and 
asking her to pay their fee of £9,075.58.  Mrs M knew this was the refund shed received in 
2011.  She telephoned L, who confirmed this was the case.  Brazier apologised and 
withdrew their invoice.
After this, Mrs M wanted to cancel her contract with Brazier.  Brazier agreed, but said theyd 
make a cancellation charge if she did.  When Brazier invoiced the charge, Mrs M opted to 
sign a fresh authority allowing the claim to continue.
About two months after Mrs B signed the letter of authority, L confirmed to Brazier theyd 
refunded Mrs M £3,981.44 (net of tax) in April 2018.  Brazier invoiced Mrs M for a success 
fee of £1,067.09.
Mrs M didnt pay the fee as she believes she received the payment as a result of her direct 
contact with L in early 2018.  Brazier passed her matter to debt recovery agents and, when 
this didnt result in payment, issued court proceedings for recovery.  Mrs M filed a defence.  
The claim was struck out in April 2021.
Mrs M had complained to Brazier about invoicing her when she didnt think theyd done any 
work.  When her complaint wasnt resolved to her satisfaction, she brought it to our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Brazier didnt need to do anything 
differently to resolve it.  He said it was fair Brazier had cancelled their invoice for £9,075.58 
as L had refunded Mrs M before she instructed Brazier.
In respect of the second fee, he noted that the letter of authority Mrs M had signed said:
I/we expressly authorise Brazier Consulting Services Limited to liaise with the bank
to obtain any information regarding any account I/We held, whether or not they have
PPI and subsequently to seek compensation of the mis-sold payment protection
insurance which includes compensation for any unfair relationship arising out of the
payment of commission from the premiums paid by me/us.
So he was satisfied shed given Brazier authority to pursue a claim.  And he thought the 
additional refund to Mrs M was the result of contact from Brazier  so they were entitled to a 
fee.
In response to the investigator, Mrs M said that the court action had been stressful.  And the 
investigator should take into account that the proceedings had been struck out.  The 
investigator considered this but didnt change his view.  He noted the case had been struck 
out because Brazier hadnt pursued the proceedings  not because thered been a decision 
about whether the fee is due.  And, while he acknowledged that Mrs M had been stressed, 
he explained that businesses are entitled to use court proceedings to recover what they 
believe they are owed.
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand what Mrs Ms said about what she thought Brazier were going to do for her.  
But thats not what the letter of authority provides for.  The section quoted above clearly 
states that Brazier will find out if a client had PPI and, if they did, seek compensation for 
them.  I cant say that was wrong.
And Im satisfied that Brazier did contact L  which led to L checking their records to see 
what refund Mrs M might be due.  I know Mrs M believes that it was her conversation with L 
which led to the additional refund.  But that conversation took place as a consequence of 
Brazier sending her the invoice for £9,075.58.  Ive not seen anything to suggest that, without 
Braziers involvement, Mrs M would have contacted L and received the additional refund she 
got in April 2018.  So I think it was fair for Brazier to charge her the success fee.
Im sorry Mrs M was stressed by being pursued by debt recovery agents and later by the 
court proceedings.  But  as our investigator explained  businesses can use these methods 
to try and recover what theyre owed.  
I can see the investigator asked both parties for evidence about the striking out to see if it 
meant Brazier shouldnt recover the fee.  Neither has provided a copy of the striking out 
order.  But, from what has been provided, it looks as though Brazier has chosen not to 
pursue the proceedings, rather than the court deciding they cant do so.  And so the 
proceedings dont change my view that Brazier are entitled to their fee  or that they should 
do any more to resolve Mrs Ms complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint about Brazier 
Consulting Services Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman