DRN-2567000
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that a payment was not transferred as part of the current 
account switch process from their previous bank to Nationwide Building Society.
 
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint, and my provisional findings, in a 
provisional decision issued in January 2021. A copy of that decision is attached to 
this.
In that provisional decision I explained why I felt the complaint should be upheld and why 
I thought Nationwide should make a payment of £75 to Mr and Mrs G.
The provisional decision was shared with all parties. Mr and Mrs G were happy with my 
decision to partially uphold the complaint but questioned whether Nationwide had sent 
a letter including a list of the payments that were transferred by the current account 
switch process as referenced in my provisional decision, as they do not remember 
receiving it.
Nationwide also responded to my decision and raised several concerns, which I will 
address in detail below.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board Mr and Mrs Gs comments about not receiving the letter that would 
have allowed them to confirm which payments had transferred as part of the current 
account switch process.
However, Nationwide confirmed that the letter was sent automatically as part of the current 
account switch process, and while Nationwide no longer retain a copy of the actual letter 
posted, they were able to demonstrate that the letter was sent to Mr and Mrs G in line with 
their automated process, and that it was sent to their correct address. While I can of course 
never say for certain whether a letter was or wasnt sent, I feel that in this instance it is 
more likely than not, given the information thats been provided to me, that the letter was 
sent. So, I have maintained my decision on that basis.
Nationwide also responded to my provisional decision and raised several objections to the 
view I put forward. Nationwide noted that my provisional outcome had been influenced by 
the literature Mr and Mrs G had been provided about the [.......] switch, and in particular, 
that the literature didnt provide an explanation that recurring card transactions wouldnt be 
covered in the main body of the text. Nationwide drew my attention again to the fact that 
this information was present in the terms and conditions of the literature.
This point is not in dispute and I acknowledge that an explanation that recurring card 
payments would not be included in the [.......] switch is present in the terms and conditions 
of the literature. However, given that the main body of the text declares that all payments 
will be included in the [.......] switch and makes no reference to any potential exclusions, I 
can still understand why Mr and Mrs G might have not thought it necessary to read the 
terms and conditions in detail.
Nationwide also explained that the wording in their literature is compliant with that 
recommended by the Current Account Switching Service (CASS), which conducts 
annual audits to ensure banks are communicating sufficient information to their 
customers, and which provides banks with guidelines that they must follow.
I can understand Nationwides frustration here, but my role isnt to determine whether 
industry guidelines or suggested wording has been adhered to. Instead, my role is to 
assess whether I think an outcome to an event is fair to all parties. And, in this particular 
instance, in these particular circumstances, I dont feel that the [.......] switch process 
resulted in a fair outcome here, for the reasons previously explained.
Nationwide have also pointed out that they did send a letter confirming which payments 
had transferred over, and that had Mr and Mrs G reviewed this document  and it was the 
very purpose of this document that they would review it  then they would have noticed that 
the recurring card payment hadnt transferred over and this situation would have been 
avoided. I am in agreement with Nationwide here, and it is for this reason that I am not 
upholding this complaint fully in Mr and Mrs Gs favour  and I can confirm that I adjusted 
the compensation amount that I have awarded Mr and Mrs G because of this, as explained 
in my provisional decision.
However, while I acknowledge that Nationwide acted in accordance with all guidelines and 
industry practice standards, I still do not feel that a fair outcome was reached in this 
specific instance.
When I consider this complaint from Mr and Mrs Gs perspective, I can understand why 
the language in the main body of the literature  which didnt contain any reference to 
recurring debit card payments not transferring automatically, but which did refer to all 
payments transferring on a number of occasions  could cause them to assume that 
these payments would transfer, and why they might not think that it would be necessary to 
review the terms and conditions for information that might supersede this.
So, while I would like to thank both Mr and Mrs G and Nationwide for their responses to my 
provisional decision, I remain persuaded that my provisional decision leads to a fair and 
reasonable outcome here. And so, it follows that I will be upholding this complaint as per 
my provisional decision and asking Nationwide to make a payment of £75 to Mr and Mrs G 
on that basis.
  
Putting things right
To put things right I think that Nationwide should make a payment of £75 to Mr and Mrs G 
as per the reasoning detailed in my provisional decision.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society for 
the reasons explained above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman