DRN-2294499
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Vitality Corporate Services Limited trading as VitalityLife didnt pay him 
the full sum assured under the serious illness section of his term assurance policy. 
Mr W made a claim for Parkinsons Disease which Vitality accepted. He expected to receive 
£77,126 but Vitality only paid him £67,247.28. Vitality said thats because Mr Ws claim was 
treated as a progressive claim and so the terms and conditions said he would only receive a 
percentage of the sum assured. 
What happened
Mr W took out this policy in 2012. Sadly, he had to make a claim to Vitality in 2015 having 
been diagnosed with Parkinsons Disease. The claim was accepted, and Mr W received 25% 
(around £22,000) of the sum assured at the time which was £88,000. 
On 21 January 2016 Vitality sent a letter to Mr W confirming that the sum assured on his 
serious illness cover was £77,126. 
Sadly, Mr Ws condition deteriorated, and he made another claim for Parkinsons in 2019. 
The claim was accepted, and Vitality paid him £67,247.28. Mr W was unhappy with this 
amount, so he made a complaint. He said he should receive the full sum assured of 
£77,126. 
Vitality considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it had checked its decision 
against the terms of Mr Ws policy and with one of its actuaries, which confirmed the 
payment it made was correct. Mr W remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this 
service. He said the letter Vitality sent in January 2016 setting out the new sum assured had 
led to a new contract being formed so he should receive that amount. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that he was satisfied 
Vitality had settled the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. He added that the letter 
from Vitality in January 2016 didnt mean a new contract had been formed. So, he didnt 
think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman review. He said the letter Vitality sent him 
formed a new contract because it changed the sum assured for the serious illness cover on 
his policy, and because he had continued to pay the premiums a new contract had been 
agreed. He said the letter Vitality sent in January 2016 was incomplete and misleading. And 
Vitality had failed to adequately explain why he wasnt entitled to the full sum assured.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. I know Mr W feels 
very strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
It isnt in dispute whether Vitality has correctly considered Mr Ws claim as progressive. So, I 
havent considered that here. And the investigator has already explained how the policy 
terms work which Mr W has noted. So, I need to be satisfied that Vitality have treated Mr W 
fairly and in line with his policy terms when it calculated what payment he was entitled to. 
The Key Facts document explains that the serious illness cover on Mr Ws policy pays out 
based on a scale, from 10% for a low severity level of a condition, to 100% for the highest. 
These documents also say if you claim more than once, and the condition is deemed to be 
progressive, you can receive more than one payment. And for further information it refers 
you to the terms and conditions. 
The terms and conditions describe what can be deemed to be a progressive illness and how 
Vitality will calculate the amount it will pay;
We will base the amount we pay on the increase in severity from the original claim to the 
new claim.
We will base the amount we pay on the value of your plan account prior to the original claim.
We will also pay interest for the period from the original date of claim to the date we pay this
progressive claim.
Mr W believes the letter he received in January 2016 has over-written these terms and 
conditions and forms the basis of a new contract. This means he should receive £77,126.
Ive considered the letter and it does say Mr Ws new sum assured for serious illness is 
£77,126. But I dont agree with him that this means he was entitled to this new sum assured 
for any claim he made after January 2016. Instead, Im satisfied Vitality were writing to 
confirm what the new total sum assured for his policy was. As Mr W has said, these types of 
policies can be complicated and come with a lot of terms and conditions. Although the sum 
assured had been reduced due to his first claim, that doesnt automatically mean that any 
claim made under the serious illness section of the policy would receive the new sum 
assured in full and would no longer be considered in line with the terms of the policy. 
I note when Mr W made his first claim, he wasnt paid out the full sum assured under his 
policy at the time  which was £88,000. Instead, he received a percentage of that sum 
assured based upon the severity of his condition  around £22,000. In order to calculate that 
sum Vitality followed the terms of the policy. So, I dont agree with Mr W that he could 
reasonably expect to receive the full sum assured outlined in Vitalitys January 2016 letter 
when he, sadly, had to claim for Parkinsons again. 
As the investigator explained, Vitality agreed, based upon the severity of his condition in 
2019, that Mr W was entitled to 75% of the sum assured for a progressive claim as per the 
terms and conditions. When the letter was sent out by Vitality in January 2016 theres no 
way of knowing whether Vitality would accept a claim for an increased severity claim for 
Parkinsons or if he would definitely claim again within the policy term. So, I wouldnt expect 
Vitality to consider mentioning this in the letter. Ive also considered whether Vitality has treated Mr W fairly. Im satisfied it has because its 
accepted the claim and followed the wording in its terms and conditions which is what I 
would expect it to do. And Vitality must make sure it treats all its customers fairly by applying 
these conditions consistently when it considers claims such as this.
So, Im not going to ask Vitality to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman