DRN-3054619
The complaint
Miss G complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer 
Finance incorrectly placed a late payment marker on her credit file.
What happened
In January 2021, Miss G noticed a late payment marker had appeared on her credit file for 
December 2020 and complained to Santander. Santander looked into her complaint and, by 
the time it replied, the marker had been removed. It acknowledged the marker had been on 
her credit file but rejected Miss Gs complaint.
Miss G was unhappy with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to us. One of 
our investigators looked into it. Santander told him that after March 2020, it had made 
manual adjustments to the credit files of many customers due to the coronavirus pandemic. 
It said its systems had automatically placed late markers (where appropriate) but then 
Santander would manually remove the markers later on. Our investigator felt the marker 
Miss G saw had been correctly applied initially, and it was removed as a gesture of goodwill 
in line with the process Santander had explained.
Santander agreed with our investigator, Miss G didnt. She said Santander had incorrectly 
reported information to the credit reference agencies and didnt remove it until she brought it 
to its attention. She has requested compensation for the error.
As there was no agreement, Miss Gs complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same decision as our investigator. Let me explain why.  
In July 2017, Miss G acquired a car using finance provided by Santander agreeing to pay 
£388.12 per month. In mid-March 2020, she contacted Santander to request a payment 
holiday and change the repayment date which was agreed. She made a payment at the end 
of April 2020, then asked for a further payment holiday which was agreed to the end of 
July 2020. 
Miss G contacted Santander again at the end of July and, in mid-August 2020, it was agreed 
she could pay around £97 per month for a short period. She did so until 29 December 2020 
when she paid £376.20. In January 2021, she paid £400 and from then her payments 
returned to the contracted amount. 
Given the circumstances Ive outlined here, there can be no dispute that Miss G was behind 
with her payments  albeit she had an agreement to pay a reduced amount for a period of 
time. Im not persuaded therefore that Santander reported the information to the credit 
reference agencies incorrectly as Miss G has said. Businesses generally have an obligation 
to report information to credit reference agencies about the running or credit accounts.  
But I note what Santander has said about how it was treating customers during the 
pandemic and Ive looked carefully at the system notes it provided. I can see that it made 
manual amendments to Miss Gs credit file  and not just the entry it put on in 
December 2020. For example, theres note dated 12 November 2020 which says CRA  CF 
amended  LP removed from Sept and Oct 2020. This shows that late payment markers 
had been placed on Miss Gs credit file and then later removed as Santander had told our 
investigator.
Im not persuaded therefore that Santander only took off the late payment marker for 
December 2020 because Miss G complained. I think in line with the other entries and its 
stated policy at the time, it would have removed the marker anyway, but Miss G saw it 
before it had done so. 
The late payment marker showed on Miss Gs credit file for around a month before it was 
removed. I can appreciate that seeing a marker appear on her credit file for the first time 
during this period, may have been upsetting for Miss G. But I havent made an award of 
compensation for this because I dont think Santander made an error  for the reasons Ive 
set out above. I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss G. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman