DRN-2480772
The complaint
Ms G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her account, using a system that she
says isnt fit for purpose. She says shes lost out as a result, because she wasnt able to take 
advantage of a favourable exchange rate.
What happened
Ms G told us that in 2013 she opened two accounts with Barclays, one in euros and one in
sterling. She placed a large amount of money in the euro account, and the sterling account
was there to facilitate an exchange, when the rates were favourable. She told us she got a
quarterly statement until late 2016. She rang because no statement was received in 2017. 
Later, she said she was told that because no interest was payable on the accounts, she
wouldnt get quarterly statements until interest resumed.
Ms G said that on 31 July 2019 she rang Barclays to move half of her money into sterling.
She was told then that her accounts had been closed due to dormancy in 2018. Shed
received no communication from Barclays about this. She said she was shocked her
accounts had been closed without warning her.
Ms G said shed complained to Barclays, and it had rejected her complaint. It said it had a
letter on file of 24 April 2018, to tell Ms G her accounts were closing on 25 June, and that a
bank employee had attempted to contact Ms G before this letter was issued. Ms G said she
had received an email of 21 April from a Barclays employee, but that just said that he was
ringing to introduce himself as Ms Gs new relationship manager.
Ms G said shed tried to get her accounts reopened, but Barclays wouldnt do this. She said
that Barclays system for telling customers that accounts are closing isnt fit for purpose.
Barclays has no proof the letter was sent, and Ms G thought it shouldve been sent by
registered post or recorded delivery.
Ms G said that the exchange rates had dropped between when she asked for her savings to
be returned, and when she finally got the money back in mid-October. She said she lost
some £6,000 as a result.
Ms G wanted Barclays to pay the £6,000 shed lost, and reopen her two closed accounts.
Barclays said it had tried to contact Ms G before it gave notice to close the accounts, and it
had then written to her at her address. It had taken this address from information she had
given it. Barclays said it had considered whether the lack of a postcode meant this letter
didnt reach Ms G, but other post with the same address had reached her.
Barclays didnt think it had done anything wrong in closing Ms Gs accounts.
Barclays did think it had made a mistake about who Ms G needed to ask to verify her
identity, so that it could pay this money to her now. It paid her £150 and £10 costs for that.
Ms G hasnt complained about this issue.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Barclays had followed
its own process to close this account, and given Ms G the notice required to do this. She
knew that correspondence hadnt reached Ms G, but she didnt think that was Barclays fault.
Barclays sent us the missing information on how much notice it had to give to close an
account. This confirmed it had given Ms G the required notice.
Ms G didnt agree. She didnt think shed been treated fairly by Barclays. She repeated that
the email dated 21 March 2018 from Barclays relationship manager said hed called to
introduce himself, not that he had called about the planned closure of her accounts on 24
April 2018. So she thought Barclays had lied in this email.
Ms G also said that Barclays had used a system it knew to be defective, as this system
apparently generated a number of different postal formats in issuing letters to her. And a
later statement didnt have any address at all. She said that the letter giving notice to close
might not have had any address printed on it either, although one appeared on the screen.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I dont think that Barclays made a mistake when it closed Ms Gs account. Broadly 
speaking, its allowed to choose who it does business with, just as Ms G is allowed to 
choose who she banks with. As long as it gives an appropriate amount of notification, 
it may close Ms Gs account.
And I think it did give the right amount of notification. I know Ms G has told us that 
she didnt get this letter, and that shes argued strongly that it may not have been 
sent, but I havent seen anything in this case to make me think that. I think its just 
unfortunate that Ms G didnt get this correspondence. I dont think its likely that slight 
variations in her postal code made any difference.
I know that Ms G has said that one of the statements on this account had no address 
at all, but I think thats because this was printed after shed closed her account. As 
Barclays hadnt been able to confirm that Ms G still lived at the address it held for 
her, I wouldnt expect it to have sent this closing statement there. I dont think this 
casts any doubt on whether the letter notifying her of closure was sent.
We know Barclays did make a further mistake. It sent her an ID form in mid-August, 
so it could confirm it was paying the money from her closed account to the right 
person. Ms G returned this promptly, and informed B of this by email on 23 August. 
On 30 August, Ms B got an email saying that the certifying person wasnt acceptable. 
Ms G had been careful to comply with the requirements set out on the ID form.
More recently, Ms G has said that she didnt exchange her money after this, because 
the exchange rate had moved against her, and continued to deteriorate for the rest of 
2019. So I thought about whether Ms G had lost out because of this delay.
I have looked carefully at the exchange rates for changing euros to pounds that were
available in 2019, and then in 2020. I can see that the rate was very favourable in 
mid to late August, and didnt reach those peaks again in 2019. But the rate both 
reached and exceeded the August 2019 rates in early 2020.
So I think that Ms G could have exchanged her funds at a better rate than that 
available to her on 31 July 2019, when she first asked Barclays to make this 
exchange, at a number of points in 2020. And that means I dont think that the mistake Barclays made, in sending an outdated ID form to Ms G, has caused her to 
suffer a financial loss on exchange, or prevented her from exchanging her funds.
I know Ms G will be disappointed, but I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Barclays acknowledged my decision but didnt reply. Ms G sent a substantive reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G said that Id based my decision on the fact that the euro to pounds exchange rate 
reached and exceeded the August 2019 rate in early 2020, so she couldve exchanged her 
money in 2020 but didnt. She said that was an oversimplification.
Ms G said her Barclays accounts were postal accounts, that could be operated through 
telephone banking. She didnt have, or want, an internet banking account. She has set out 
for us in some detail the problems she faced in finding another account that was suitable for 
her. She said this had involved travelling, and collecting a considerable amount of 
paperwork. She said this was all very stressful, and the new account options she had made 
it much more difficult to exchange funds. She said that if I didnt think Barclays had to pay for 
the difference in exchange rates, she thought it should compensate her for this stress. 
Ms G did still think Barclays should pay for the difference in exchange rates. She said her 
complaint had been made in February 2020, and Id looked at exchange rates after this. Ms 
G didnt think I should be moving the goalposts after this, to her disadvantage. She said if I 
could do that, then the case could be delayed until she wasnt in a position to complain. She 
thought her complaint should be judged on the circumstances as they were on 10 February 
2020, and I should use the exchange rates from that day.
Ms G also said that by the time the exchange rate had improved, she was unable to carry 
out her transaction, because of the pandemic. She also said that by February 2020 the 
summer property season for holiday home sales was over and the houses she had been 
interested in had been sold. She said she cant search for a property now because of the 
pandemic, and she believes this dream will now never be realised. 
Ms G said she wanted to be compensated based on the exchange rate as shed originally 
asked, because she didnt have an opportunity to exchange her savings after they
were returned to her. Or, alternatively, she asked to be compensated for the distress caused 
by the closure of the Barclays accounts, the stress of opening a new account, the travel 
costs involved, and the disappointment when she didnt manage to buy a property. 
I dont think Im able to fairly award Ms G the compensation shes seeking. Ill explain why I 
think that. 
The first point to make is that I found in my provisional decision that Barclays was entitled to 
close Ms Gs accounts. I understand that finding a new account has put Ms G to some 
trouble, but I still think Barclays is able to decide who it does business with. It didnt do 
anything wrong when it decided to close Ms Gs account. So I cant ask Barclays to pay Ms 
G compensation, because she found it both difficult and stressful to find a new account.
Ms G also says its not fair for my decision to take account of exchange rate changes after 
the date when she complained. But I do think I should take account of the situation Ms G is actually in. She hasnt exchanged her money. So she hasnt actually lost the money that she 
would like Barclays to pay. And, as I can see that exchange rates improved in the early part 
of this year (and have been largely in Ms Gs favour since then) I cant say that Ms G will 
ever make the losses she wants Barclays to cover. I dont think it would be reasonable to 
ask Barclays to pay for that. 
Finally, Ms G says that by the time exchange rates had recovered, the winter 2019/20 
season for buying the home she wanted had ended. And she says that she cant buy a home 
now, because the pandemic makes that practically impossible. 
I do accept the point that Ms G makes, when she says that plans she might otherwise simply 
have rolled forward into winter 2020/21 now cant go ahead this year. But I think the key 
reason why her plans cant go ahead this year is because of the pandemic, not because 
Barclays closed her account last year. So, although I appreciate how disappointing this must 
be for Ms G, I just dont think thats Barclays fault.
I know that Ms G will be disappointed, but I still dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
Id like to close by saying, although I havent been able to hold Barclays responsible for 
whats happened, I am sorry that Ms Gs plans for a new home havent yet come to fruition. I 
very much hope that were all able to get back to normal soon, and that as part of that, shes 
finally able to buy her new home.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman