DRN-3573235
The complaint
Mr B complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
D C Financial Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to DCFL.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement. 
Mr B was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do, so he contacted 
independent financial adviser DCFL for advice in July 2017. 
DCFL gathered information about his circumstances and objectives which were broadly as 
follows:
Mr B was 51 years old, not married (but had a long-term partner and they were 
intending to marry shortly). He had no dependent children and was in good health.
He lived in a home valued at approximately £110,000, which had an outstanding 
mortgage of around £36,000. The mortgage had around 8 years left to run. 
Mr B earned £56,000 per year and had a disposable income of around £1,000 per 
month. He had around £150,000 in savings and investments. He owned a buy to let 
property valued at around £90,000 which he had a £38,000 mortgage on.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Bs BSPS was approximately 
£603,719 (later increased to £623,405) and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. 
Mr B had expressed an aspiration of retiring at the age of 60.
DCFL set out its advice in a suitability letter on 12 July 2017. Mr B was recommended to 
transfer out and invest the funds in a personal pension. DCFL said this would allow Mr B to 
achieve his objectives.
Mr B accepted this advice and so transferred from his BSPS to a personal pension. In 2021 
Mr B complained to DCFL about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out of his BSPS. In response, DCFL said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr B had at the time. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCFL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, DCFL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
was in Mr Bs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint.
Financial viability 
As required by the regulator, to demonstrate the financial comparisons between his current 
scheme and transferring out to a personal pension, DCFL referred in its transfer analysis to 
critical yield rates.  
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
income as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show 
how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. DCFL said the critical yield required to match Mr Bs full BSPS benefits at the age of 65 was 
6.91% and 8.73% at the age of 60. No corresponding yields were provided if Mr B had 
chosen to take a reduced pension together with a tax-free lump sum at those ages.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rates published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
before 1 October 2017 were 4.1% per year for 13 years to retirement (calculated to age 65) 
and 3.5% (calculated to age 60), which are well below the main critical yield figures Ive set 
out above.
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate was 8%, the middle projection 
rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. At the time, as DCFL assessed Mr Bs 
attitude to risk (ATR) as moderate, I think a figure around the mid-range of these projections 
was most relevant; again this was below the critical yields for the BSPS. And Ive also seen 
that before the effects of inflation, the fund provider recommended to Mr B by DCFL, issued 
its own projected growth rates. These were 1.41% for low projected growth, and 4.41% (mid-
growth). 
Ive taken all these projected growth figures and the critical yields into account. I have also 
considered Mr Bs ATR and I think theres a clear indication that by transferring out of his DB 
scheme at the time, Mr B would be likely to obtain pension benefits of a lower overall value 
than the scheme he was in, over the longer term.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, DCFL also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. It said the critical yield to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 65 was 3.21% per year if Mr B took a pension under the 
reduced terms of the PPF and 2.77% per year if he opted to take a tax-free cash element 
and a further reduced pension. These were lower yield rates, which on first look may seem 
more achievable. But of course, the comparisons were based on the reduced pension 
benefits provided by the PPF and these rates were for a retirement at 65, rather than the age 
of 60 which was listed as Mr Bs objective in DCFLs suitability letter. Also, taking into 
account the impact of the charges and fees incurred as a consequence of transferring out to 
the recommended personal pension plan, I think these figures fail to show how the advice to 
transfer out was suitable. At best, I think they show that Mr B might possibly have been able 
to achieve broadly the same level of income as provided by the PPF, but the opportunity to 
improve on it was limited.
So, there was simply no reliable evidence from DCFL here that Mr Bs transferred funds 
could confidently exceed the critical yields compared with Mr B remaining in his existing 
scheme. And I think its safe to say the same is broadly true of the BSPS2 scheme, although 
we dont have corresponding analysis here to show it. I say this because the income benefits 
were the same under the BSPS2 but had lower future increases, so I think the critical yields 
were likely to be somewhere between those applicable to the existing BSPS and the PPF. 
Ive also noted that DCFL said that in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of 
equal value to the existing scheme at a retirement age of 65, the funds required would be 
around £1,246,086. At the age of 60, the cost of buying such an annuity was estimated as being £1,110,907. These figures were well above Mr Bs CETV and so they provide a 
window, in my view, into the true value of the DB scheme Mr B was being advised to leave. 
Of course, DCFLs recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal pension was 
not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme. Rather, DCFL said 
Mr B also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other 
considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the 
overall lower benefits mentioned above. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
Ive used a combination of what was in DCFLs suitability letter and the client information 
form it completed about Mr B to help determine what DCFL said were the main objectives for 
transferring out of the BSPS:
It would allow him to retire early which is what he had indicated he wanted to do. 
A more flexible income
DCFL said there were likely better death benefits by transferring out, given his 
personal circumstances.
The pension would no longer be under his employers control and Mr B would be 
able to make further transfers if he liked.
Ive also seen that in its final response letter about the complaint, DCFL said Mr B had an 
additional objective to pay off his mortgage. So, it seems the main reasons that DCFL 
recommended the transfer was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr B. I have 
therefore considered all these issues with great care, beginning with his mortgage. 
Paying off Mr Bs mortgage 
Ive considered the point DCFL made about the value of Mr B accessing his transferred 
pension benefits early, at the age of 55, to pay off his outstanding mortgage balance. 
The implication here is that Mr B could have used part of his 25% tax-free lump sum, taken 
from a new personal pension he would transfer into, to completely pay off his outstanding 
mortgage. And I of course accept that when looked at in isolation, paying down debt is 
generally a good thing to do. 
However, Ive seen nothing to show Mr B wasnt doing anything other than paying off his 
mortgage fully in accordance with the repayment plan. Ive seen no evidence therefore, that 
the mortgage wasnt been properly paid down and importantly, it had only eight more years 
to run. Mr B also already had sufficient savings with which to do this straightaway so I think 
its reasonable to say he was content to have a small mortgage and the interest rate 
environment at the time was favourable. In any event, Mr B would not have been able to 
access his transferred pension funds until he was 55 years old anyway, which was still 
almost four years away from when he was given the advice in 2017. 
I therefore think its fair to say that the passage of this time allowed for Mr Bs existing 
mortgage debt to be continually reduced in the interim four-year period, between the ages of 
51 and 55, as part of the normal repayment process. Also, DCFLs own fact-find showed 
that Mr B had disposable income available each month which could have been used to 
reduce mortgage interest and debt even further as he approached his mid-50s, if that was his preference. In this case, I think it was entirely reasonable that the mortgage could be 
paid off completely before the eight years left was up.
I think these things show that if the advice to transfer from Mr Bs BSPS was predicated 
partly on a plan to repay his mortgage, then it was flawed.
Flexibility 
DCFL said that by transferring out and having a personal pension plan, Mr B would have 
more flexibility in his retirement income going forward. It said Mr B would also be able to 
increase the amount of tax-free cash hed be able to access. 
Overall however, I cant see that Mr B required flexibility in retirement in the way DCFL 
implied. DCFL said in its transfer analysis that Mr Bs estimated pension even under the 
terms of the PPF was £28,370 or £21,363 with a tax-free lump sum of £142,185 at age 65. It 
didnt provide the corresponding analysis at age 60, despite Mr Bs desire to retire at that 
age. However, I dont think the benefits were likely to be substantially lower than the £24,676 
available to him at age 60 under the existing scheme, given the more favourable early 
retirement factors under the PPF. DCFL had noted Mr Bs income requirement in retirement 
to be around £20,000 per year. So I think the PPF would have most likely met these needs 
at age 60, and certainly at age 65. I also havent seen any evidence to support that Mr B 
needed to vary his income throughout retirement. 
Mr B had also recently joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme and 
would have been making contributions to it for at least another 9 years until he retired. It 
seems to me that in the unlikely event of any shortfalls in Mr Bs income needs between the 
age of 60 and his state retirement age, could have been met by drawing on this second 
pension.
Its also usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension 
when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two 
schemes are calculated differently. But DCFL should have been telling Mr B at the time that 
extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a personal pension from the age of 55 also 
came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would 
obviously decrease. 
Ive explained above why accessing tax-free cash to repay his mortgage was flawed. And 
Ive seen no compelling evidence showing access to a lump-sum at 55 years old was 
necessary or required for other specific reasons. So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing 
tax-free cash might have been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other 
options Mr B faced, including opting for the PPF, or the BSPS2 when details became 
clearer. In any event, Mr B could have taken tax-free cash the PPF, and I havent seen any 
evidence to persuade me he needed a higher sum than this would have provided him with.
I have therefore considered everything DCFL said about flexibility: it said this would include 
how funds were invested, the level of income he could withdraw from the age of 55 and a 
greater ability to flexibly use the tax-free lump sum element. It also said that Mr B would be 
able to have complete control over the pension if he transferred out. 
However, Ive seen nothing which shows Mr B had either the desire or capacity to exercise 
personal control over his pension. In my view, Mr Bs circumstances were much more 
aligned to him retiring from a DB scheme, such as the PPF or BSPS2, and drawing a 
pension. So, I think the more suitable option was for him to access his DB pension in the 
way it was originally intended.Retiring early 
I dont doubt that Mr B might have genuinely hoped to retire at the age of 60. But Ive seen 
nothing that shows this was anything more than something he aspired to do at that stage, as 
opposed to being part of a formulated plan. I say this because Mr B was only 51 years old 
and from what Ive seen, he had no concrete plans for retirement at that point. Ive also 
noted that Mr B could have retired early as a member of the PPF. 
So, even if I were to consider that Mr Bs retirement plans were more advanced than the 
mere aspirations set out by DCFL - and he really did want to retire early - I think DCFL 
should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a member of the 
PPF, or the new scheme when details fully emerged. Its clear that in these circumstances 
there would have been an actuarial reduction caused by early retirement from the scheme. 
This would have meant Mr Bs pension benefits would have been somewhat reduced due to 
him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. But Ive seen no evidence this was 
discussed with a view to assessing whether it was more in Mr Bs best interests, rather than 
him being advised to transfer away completely.
Death benefits 
DCFL says that death benefits were discussed at the time and that as Mr B wasnt married, 
the benefits associated with his existing BSPS or the PPF werent suitable to his situation. 
Ive noted his intention to nominate someone else as a beneficiary of the personal pension 
plan. But I think Mr B required careful advice about these issues, given his particular 
circumstances. I also think the death benefits were substantially underplayed by DCFL. 
In my experience, the death benefits Mr B could have access to were generally good and I 
think they would have been of use to him. In that context, its also not clear why DCFL did 
not take account of what Mr B had said about him marrying shortly; hed been with his 
partner for many years and theyd had children together. Their intention was also to marry 
before the following March, as recorded on the fact-find.
This may therefore have changed his perception of the spousal death benefits he would 
have potentially enjoyed by not transferring out of the BSPS or choosing to join the PPF. 
There were spouse death benefits within the PPF which needed to be considered in the light 
of Mr Bs intended marriage (and broadly benefits which would be replicated in BSPS2 still 
being discussed at the time the advice was being given to him).
I appreciate that DCFL has since told us that Mr B hasnt yet married his spouse, thereby 
reinforcing its recommendation to transfer out. But I dont think it is reasonable to take this 
into account  I think Mr Bs clear intention, as expressed to DCFL at the time of the advice, 
was to marry his partner in the near future. So, I think the advice ought to have been based 
on this position.
Furthermore, death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people 
would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits 
on offer through a personal pension plan was likely an attractive feature to Mr B. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think DCFL explored to what 
extent Mr B was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.As Ive said, Mr B was still only 51 years old. He had a medical condition but theres no 
suggestion his life expectancy was reduced by this to the extent that this needed further 
consideration in the context of his pension. DCFLs suitability letter described his health as 
good.
Overall, and in relation to death benefits, there were some specific issues relating to Mr Bs 
situation which I dont think DCFL suitably advised him on. But I certainly dont think the 
different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal pension justified the likely 
decrease of wider retirement benefits for Mr B. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr B, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried about the consequences of his pension ending up in the PPF. Hed heard 
negative things about the PPF and DCFL said he said he preferred to have control over his 
pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr B was also leaning towards the decision to transfer out 
because of the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. 
However, it was DCFLs obligation to give Mr B an objective picture and recommend what 
was in his best interests. At the time of the advice being delivered, it wasnt known whether 
the BSPS2 would be a viable option for members of the scheme  further announcements 
were not made until August 2017, after the advice was delivered. 
But DCFL could have waited for further details to emerge  Mr Bs CETV was guaranteed 
until 28 September 2017 and announcements were made by the scheme trustees on 
11 August 2017 and 11 September 2017. The announcements explained that the BSPS2 
would be going ahead as long as certain funding conditions were met and that the majority 
of members would be better off than if they moved to the PPF.  So, I think that could have 
alleviated Mr Bs concerns about his pension heading for the PPF given he had another 
option.
But regardless of the position of the BSPS2, I think that DCFL should have reassured Mr B 
that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The income 
available to Mr B through the PPF would have been sufficient to meet his needs at 
retirement, and he was still unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And 
although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was guaranteed and 
was not subject to any investment risk. 
So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to DCFLs recommendation to Mr B to 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr B. But DCFL wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr B was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. I dont think aspirations of paying off a small mortgage or accessing more tax-free cash 
were worth taking the irrevocable decision to leave the BSPS at that stage; DCFL ought to 
have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for these reasons, particularly 
as it meant hed probably be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer from his DB scheme to a 
personal pension plan when he was unlikely to be able to improve on his existing scheme 
benefits and those offered by the PPF.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr B would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that DCFL disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr B, and provided him with a significant amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr B to transfer out, and I think Mr B relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr B would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against DCFLs advice. I say this because Mr B paid to have advice and this pension 
accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if DCFL had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Bs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if DCFL had explained Mr B was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
A few months after the advice Mr B wouldve been asked to choose whether he wanted to 
remain in the scheme and move with it to the PPF or opt into the BSPS2.
Mr B still had a minimum of 9 years before he hoped to retire. But this might have been 
longer as in my view he couldnt yet know what his needs in retirement would be. So, I don't 
think that it would have been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have 
faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable 
reduction for very early retirement. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr B would have retained the 
ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr B 
was intending to marry and he told DCFL about this. His wifes pension could have been set 
at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum 
was taken at retirement (if Mr B chose to do so). 
On this basis, I think Mr B would have chosen to join the BSPS2 at that point. So, I think 
DCFL should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined 
benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the above, it is the benefits 
available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for comparison purposes.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for DCFLs unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the BSPS and then joined the new BSPS2.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. Hes said he 
doesnt want to wait for any new guidance. 
DCFL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr B has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
DCFL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date DCFL receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCFL to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
This was a substantial pension which represented most of Mr Bs retirement savings. So, in 
addition DCFL should pay Mr P £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCFL to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require D C 
Financial Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require D C 
Financial Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial 
Limited. 
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman