The complaint
Mr B complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited (trading as 1st Central) 
(1st Central):
didnt properly adjust the annual premium on his motor insurance policy when he
moved house part way through the term of the policy; and
didnt give proper consideration to the complaint he made about this.
What happened
Mr B owned a number of motor cars. He purchased a motor insurance policy for one of them 
online with 1st Central in May 2018. In January 2019 he contacted 1st Central online to 
record his change of address. He was unhappy with the additional premium he was quoted 
for the change until renewal in May 2019 - £61 plus an administration charge of £15. 
He said this amounted to an annual increase of £186 on a premium of £377.91  an 
increase of 49%, which he thought was unjustifiable. Mr B complained to 1st Central, but felt 
it didnt consider his complaint properly and dismissed it within minutes. So he complained to 
us.
Mr B said that he had notified two other motor insurance companies with which he insured 
cars of his change of address. One insurer, with which he insured a classic car, left the 
premium unchanged. The other company, which insured two cars, reduced the premiums for 
them. He thought this made it doubly strange that 1st Central had increased his premium.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) didnt regulate the prices insurers charged, or the 
methods they used to calculate such prices. So we wouldnt normally comment on the way 
an insurer assesses risks, or calculates premiums to cover such risks. Insurers also 
constantly updated the way they rated customers and the rates they charged.
In this case 1st Central had supplied the investigator with commercially sensitive and 
confidential business information to show how the adjustment had been calculated. Having 
seen this, he was satisfied that the price had been correctly calculated, and was in line with 
what it would have charged to its other customers who were in a similar position.
While he could understand Mr Bs frustration in view of the different treatment by his other 
insurers, this wasnt something he could consider further.
DRN-1280067Mr B responded to say, in summary, that he didnt accept that 1st Centrals risk assessment 
could be so different from that of his two other insurers. He said his new address was much 
quieter, had considerably less traffic flow, and a lower crime rate than his previous address.
He also said the investigator hadnt addressed his complaint about the perfunctory way 1st 
Central dealt with his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has said, insurers are constantly adjusting the risks they are prepared to 
insure, and the premiums they require in respect of such risks, for commercial reasons. This 
can result in insurers charging markedly different premiums in respect of the same risk at 
any one time.
The FCA doesnt regulate insurers in setting such premiums, and so this isnt something we 
will normally consider. However we do expect insurers to act fairly and reasonably as 
between different customers in a similar position. So we will look to see that an insurer has 
treated a customer fairly as against other similar customers.
Ive considered the information 1st Central obtained from the underwriters and passed to the 
investigator. From this Im satisfied that the way Mr B was assessed when he changed 
address was in line with how the underwriters would have treated any similar customer with 
a policy arranged with 1st Central.
In this case, this meant Mr B paid an increased premium under this policy, whereas on other 
cars which he and his family owned different insurers charged the same or lower premiums. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, this isnt something I can consider or comment on.
Mr B also says that when he complained to 1st Central about the increased premium, it 
didnt properly consider his complaint and rejected it within minutes. I asked 1st Central to 
explain its procedure when it received a complaint of this nature from a customer.
1st Central said that when a customer notified it of a change of address, it told the customer 
what the effect of this would be on the premium, using information/tables supplied to it for 
this purpose by the underwriters. This is what happened in Mr Bs case.
Mr B indicated he was unhappy with the figure quoted. 1st Central says its representative 
checked with a senior member of staff, who explained that due to the change in the 
postcode area, the rating factors our underwriters used in the new area showed a higher 
premium, which could be related to the claims data they had on the new postcode area.
Mr B said he wanted to complain. 1st Central says its representative confirmed that a 
complaint had been recorded. However as 1st Central had explained why the premium had 
been increased, the complaint wouldnt be upheld and would now be closed.
I understand why Mr B felt his complaint had been dealt with perfunctorily, and hadnt been 
properly considered. However, 1st Central was merely acting as the agent of the 
underwriters in passing on the effect of Mr Bs change of address on his premium. Once the 
underwriters had set the figures for Mr Bs new postcode area, these were fixed and 1st 
Central had no discretion to vary them.As I've said, it isn't unusual for the different rating factors used by insurers to result in 
markedly different premiums for the same risks. So I don't think 1st Central was required to 
do anything more. In these circumstances, I cant say that the way 1st Central responded to 
Mr Bs complaint was unreasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against First Central 
Insurance Management Limited (trading as 1st Central).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31July2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman