DRN-3605015
The complaint
Mr J complains about British Gas Service Limited (BGS) and the way they handled the claim 
he made on his Home Emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J held a Home Emergency insurance policy provided by BGS for a tenanted property. In 
September 2021, Mr Js tenants made him aware of an issue with the boiler in the property. 
So, Mr J contacted BGS in order to arrange a repair.
BGS arranged for an engineer to attend the property and resolve the issue. But 
unfortunately, it took several visits over a period of more than four months for the boiler to be 
repaired. And even then, it was recommended that Mr J fit a magnetic filter to enhance the 
boilers performance. Mr J was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr J was unhappy with the length of time the property was without a fully functioning boiler. 
And he was unhappy with the inconvenience he experienced when trying to get the issue 
resolved and the amount of times he had to contact BGS directly. So, he wanted to be 
compensated for this. And he wanted BGS to fit the recommended filter for free, as he 
thought hed been promised.
BGS responded and upheld the complaint. They accepted their service had not been to the 
standard they or Mr J would expect. So, they paid Mr J a total of £715, which covered the 
cost of a pump and heaters Mr J purchased as well as £300 to recognise the upset and 
inconvenience Mr J had been caused. Mr J remained unhappy with this response, as he 
wanted BGS to fit the filter and cover the cost of this. So, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained they hadnt 
seen evidence to show BGS agreed to fit and cover the cost of a filter. And they didnt think 
this filter would fall under the terms and conditions of the policy Mr J held. So, they didnt 
think they could say BGS should fit this or pay for it. And they thought the £715 BGS offered 
Mr J fairly compensated him for his financial loss, and the inconvenience he was caused by 
the delays in repairing the issue. So, they didnt think BGS needed to do anything more.
Mr J didnt agree. He thought our investigator was suggesting his conversation with BGS 
about the filter never happened, and he was unhappy about this. He maintained his position 
that BGS had promised to fit a filter free of charge and so, he wanted them to honour this 
promise. As Mr J didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr J. While I recognise he 
wasnt living in the property impacted by the boiler issue, I appreciate as the landlord he had 
a responsibility to ensure the issue was fixed in a timely manner. And I understand the stress 
and inconvenience he wouldve felt when it took several visits, over a significant amount of 
time, to ensure a repair was completed. So, I recognise why Mr J would expect to be 
compensated for this, and any financial loss he incurred during this time. And I also 
understand why Mr J would expect BGS to honour any promises he felt hed been given 
during that time.
But for me to say BGS should do something more than the £715 payment theyve already 
provided, Id need to be satisfied that this offer wasnt a fair one to recognise Mr Js losses or 
the inconvenience he suffered. Or, that this payment failed to recognise another error BGS 
made. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
BGS have accepted the repair to the boiler in Mr Js tenanted property took longer than they 
wouldve expected to complete. And while I do believe it appears the boiler issue was one 
that required a degree of trial and error to identify the root cause, looking through the claim 
history I think there were delays that couldve been prevented. As BGS dont dispute this, I 
dont intend to discuss this any further.
Instead, Ive considered whether I think the offer they made to Mr J was a fair one. I can see 
BGS have covered the cost of the pump Mr J purchased, as well as the heaters his tenants 
used during the time the boiler was unable to be used fully. And I think these payments by 
BGS have fairly and adequately covered the financial loss Mr J incurred.
On top of this, I can see BGS have paid Mr J £300 to recognise any inconvenience hes 
been caused by the service hes received. Its important to note Mr J wasnt living at the 
affected property and so, Im unable to consider any of the suffering his tenants may have 
felt living without a fully functioning boiler. Instead, Im able to consider the stress Mr J 
wouldve been caused by this, as it wouldve been his responsibility to arrange for this to be 
sorted and I think its reasonable for me to assume he wouldve had to appease his tenants 
concerns throughout this time. Thinking about this, and the time and effort Mr J wouldve 
needed to put into communicating with BGS, I think the £300 BGS have already paid Mr J is 
a fair one and in line with what I wouldve directed, had it not already been made. So, I dont 
think BGS need to do anything more regarding this.
Ive then turned to the main area of dispute, which relates to a filter Mr J says he was 
promised would be fitted, free of charge, by BGS. Due to the time thats passed since the 
conversations held between BGS and Mr J, recordings of these conversations are no longer 
available. So, Im unable to know for certain exactly what was discussed and whether a filter 
was promised.
But what I can see is an e-mail chain between Mr J and BGS, where a filter was referenced 
and BGS confirmed they would discuss this request with a manager. Ive seen no evidence 
to show any result of this conversation with a manager was communicated to Mr J. 
So, Im satisfied the fitting of a filter was discussed. But Im unable to say for certain that the 
fitting of this filter was agreed, or that it would be fitted free of charge. BGS have said this 
isnt something they would offer, as its seen as an enhancement to a boiler system rather 
that a requirement. And considering the terms of Mr Js insurance policy, I think this stance 
by BGS falls within these as Im aware a filter can be fitted to extend the life cycle and 
efficiency of a boiler but isnt a part that comes as standard.So, I dont think Im able to say for certain that BGS agreed to fit the filter at no cost Mr J. 
And as I cant say BGS promised to do so, I dont think Im able to say they acted unfairly 
when deciding this wouldnt be done  and I dont think they had any obligation to do so under 
the terms of the policy Mr J held. Because of this, I dont think BGS need to do anything 
more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr J was hoping for. And I want to make it clear my 
decision isnt saying I think Mr Js testimony is false, or that the conversation hes referred to 
didnt happen. But my decision must be made based solely on the evidence I have available, 
as our service has an obligation to be both independent and impartial.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about British Gas Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman