DRN-2825658
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim she 
made on her contents insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ill only provide a summary 
here:
Ms R has a contents insurance policy underwritten by Admiral
Following accidental damage to a number of her possessions she made a claim on 
the policy
She complained to Admiral about a number of issues relating to the claim including, 
but not limited to, delays, poor communication, failure to take account of her 
vulnerabilities and poor social distancing by Admirals agents 
Admiral acknowledged it hadnt handled things as well as it should have and 
awarded Ms R £300 for some delays and poor communication
But it didnt think it had done everything Ms R said it had
Our investigator said Admiral should have communicated more clearly, progressed 
the claim quicker and been more mindful of Ms Rs vulnerabilities and concerns 
about social distancing and thought the £300 already paid by Admiral was sufficient
Ms R disagreed and asked an ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role requires me to focus on the crux of a complaint so Ill only comment on those things I 
think relevant to the decision I need to make. Theres broad agreement about what 
happened in this case but what remains at issue is the amount Admiral should pay for the 
trouble and upset it caused.
Our investigator helpfully included a detailed timeline within her findings so I wont repeat 
that here.
Delays
Admiral has acknowledged it didnt handle things as quickly as it could have. It says the 
Covid crisis had an impact on how quickly it was able to respond. And it certainly took longer 
to review correspondence about Ms Rs claim in March 2020 when the crisis was starting.
Admiral also accepted it caused an avoidable delay with regards to the journals being 
claimed for when it failed to appoint a supplier after it validated the claim. This meant things 
took several months longer than they should have done. In mitigation, Admiral says it was 
very busy at this time following a period of storms and that means things would have taken 
longer anyway, but I dont think that excuses this oversight. Admiral has agreed to add 8% 
simple interest to this part of the claim to reflect the delays seen and thats what Id expect it 
to do in the circumstances.
Poor communication
Its clear there was some confusion over communication, with Ms R saying shed provided 
the photos Admiral had requested and Admiral saying they hadnt been received but failing 
to let Ms R know they were still outstanding.  
Additionally, I think Admiral could have been clearer about the validation process for each of 
the items being claimed for and what was required to move the claim forward. I can see from 
correspondence Ms R found this lack of clarity frustrating and I understand why particularly 
when she was told the claim was going to be closed.
Vulnerabilities and social distancing
I understand why Ms R would have been concerned about Admirals agents adhering to 
social distancing guidelines particularly given the vulnerability shes described. And while 
she told Admiral about this, I havent seen any evidence to show it did all it could to ensure 
its agents adhered to the guidelines at the time. 
I have to keep in mind this aspect of the complaint is difficult to prove one way or another 
and based on the evidence available, Im not satisfied I can safely reach a conclusion about 
whether the guidelines were adhered to or not. But I do think Admiral could have done more 
to ensure its agents were made aware of the requirements in Ms Rs particular 
circumstances.
Conclusion
I acknowledge Ms R doesnt think the £300 compensation awarded by Admiral is enough 
and thinks I should direct it to pay more. But I cant ignore her own comments that she said 
she was only pursuing the complaint as Admiral hadnt admitted the full extent of its 
shortcomings and apologised. So, it seems to me shes made the complaint on point of 
principle rather than as a reflection of the impact of its actions. And while she may feel 
strongly Admiral has made mistakes, the awards this service makes are to recognise the 
trouble and upset caused by the things a business got wrong rather than to punish it for the 
way it behaved. 
Taking everything into account I think the £300 already paid by Admiral is a fair and 
reasonable way for it to settle the complaint and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman