DRN-4011397
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declining their claim for
landslip at their property.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
In December 2021, Mr and Mrs T raised a claim as the land at the rear of their 
property has started to fall away and this has caused damage to the lawn/garden 
also a nearby shed
There hasnt been any damage to the main home
AXA have relied upon a term within the policy to decline the claim; this term says that 
unless theres been damage to the main home, the claim cant succeed
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said that whilst 
there had been damage to the shed, this was defined as an outbuilding within the 
policy
Therefore, as there was no evidence the main home had been damaged, our 
investigator said the term AXA had applied was reasonable
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with our investigator, saying that landslip was an insured 
peril, and they didnt consider their damage was excluded
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a 
decision
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 23 February 2023. This is what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, there isnt a dispute that Mr and Mrs T have had a landslip albeit the cause of it 
hasnt been fully determined. From what I can see the slope may have destabilised after 
removal of a tree and it seems that an assumption has been made that a soakaway may 
have failed but this hasnt been located.
AXA says it wont cover the claim because the main home wasnt damaged at the same time 
by the same cause and the damage to the garden is excluded under the policy. So, Ive had 
to consider and decide whether the claim was fairly declined due to the policy exclusions, 
and if it was, whether this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Landslip is an insured peril that the policy can respond to. The policy says it will cover loss or 
damage from subsidence or ground heave of the site on which the building stands or 
landslip, so that means loss or damage to anything within the property boundary. Under 
section 9 of the policy, which is the relevant part for this landslip claim, it says the policy 
does not cover for loss or damage to:
Boundary and garden walls, gates, hedges and fences, paths and drives, patios, decking, 
terraces, tennis hard courts and swimming pools unless the home has been damaged at the 
same time by the same cause.
And home is defined within the policy as The private residence shown in your policy 
schedule including its garages and outbuildings if they form part of the property.
Within the policy, shed falls under the definition of an outbuilding, however, it isnt disputed 
that the private residence hasnt been damaged.
AXA in its final response letter accepted that lawn/garden, shed were not listed but still 
applied the section unless the home has been damaged at the same time. Im not 
persuaded this is fair as that only applies to the definitive list that goes before it in the 
sentence. The exclusion basically limits the all-encompassing cover established above by 
taking away landslip caused by those items specifically listed when the home isnt also 
damaged. Because it doesnt take away sheds or gardens/lawns, the exclusion doesnt 
apply to them, and theyre covered. So, I dont think its fair for AXA to rely on this to decline 
the claim.
I therefore intend to direct AXA to reconsider the claim in line with the rest of the policy terms 
and conditions without relying on this exclusion.
Mr and Mrs T are also unhappy about the service they have received from AXA and say this 
has been very stressful. They have had to chase for updates and responses. I think this has 
caused additional stress beyond what wouldve been expected by this type of claim I 
therefore intend to instruct AXA to pay Mr and Mrs T £150 compensation separate from any 
claim decision.
Responses to provisional decision
Mr and Mrs T havent responded.
In summary, AXA has said it doesnt disagree that the shed is defined as part of the home. It 
says it is declining the claim as the shed wasnt damaged by the landslip. However, it 
acknowledges that the loss adjuster has given two different reports on the condition of the 
shed. 
AXA has proposed that its surveyor re-visits to inspect the shed again before a decision on 
cover is made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered AXAs response, but I see little point of re-visiting to look at the 
shed at this late date. Im satisfied I can reach a fair and reasonable decision on the strength 
of the information already available.
As AXA hasnt challenged my findings about the exclusion, I wont repeat that. Instead, AXA 
has argued the shed wasnt damaged by the landslip, so thats what Ill focus on.The first report in January 2022 clearly says the shed has been distorted by the ground 
movement there was no mention of wear and tear. The latter report in April 2022 says the 
shed should be excluded due to significant wear and tear. It didnt persuasively explain how 
the cause of the distortion could have been wear and tear, or why the findings had changed 
from January.
Im not convinced that in a few months the shed had become significantly damaged by wear 
and tear that it wouldnt have been seen at the first visit. And even if the wear and tear had 
happened during that time, it wouldnt mean the original cause of the distortion wasnt the 
ground movement. From the photographs supplied although I can see the shed is not new 
and it has some wear and tear from being weathered, Im more persuaded that the distortion 
damage to the shed is more consistent with the movement of the ground rather than wear 
and tear.
So, Im satisfied that my provisional decision represents an outcome that is fair and 
reasonable.
Putting things right
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to reconsider the claim in line with the rest of the policy terms 
and conditions without relying on the same exclusion.
Pay Mr and Mrs T £150 compensation separate from any claim decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman