DRN-3489282
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt reimbursed her for 
funds lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
In July and August 2020, Miss W sent two payments via a cryptocurrency exchange to what 
she believed was an investment platform. She wasnt able to withdraw funds from the 
platform and she realised shed been the victim of a scam. She then found what she 
understood to be a scam recovery company online and sent them a holding payment in 
September 2020 to begin recovery action for her, but this also turned out to be a scam.
NatWest didnt refund any of her payments as it said the first two werent unusual enough for 
it to have intervened and she had no rights under chargeback. And it didnt agree she was 
due a refund of the third payment as it said it had processed her instructions and she should 
have done more research.
Our investigator agreed with NatWest on all three payments. He said that Miss W wasnt due 
a refund of the third payment under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the code) as 
while this was an authorised push payment (APP) , he didnt think she met the criteria for a 
reimbursement. So Miss W asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The two payments Miss W sent to invest in the scam werent out of character for her 
account, shed sent larger payments of a similar value in the months before these. 
While shes said they were different to other large payments shes sent before, and I 
accept they werent identical, I dont think they were different enough for NatWest to 
intervene.
NatWest has automated systems in place to protect customers, but I dont agree 
these systems shouldve detected these payments as out of character or unusual for 
Miss W. So they rightly didnt flag on any systems  meaning NatWest didnt miss an 
opportunity to intervene in this case.
I have considered whether NatWest was fair in not pursuing a chargeback claim for 
Miss W and I agree it was. She didnt pay the scammer directly and so while I accept 
she wasnt able to withdraw from the investment platform, she did originally receive 
cryptocurrency for her payment. And the payments using her card went to the 
cryptocurrency exchange, not the scam firm, so a claim wouldnt have been 
successful.
In relation to the third payment and the code, Ive then considered whether Miss W 
had a reasonable basis for believing the transaction was genuine. From what Miss W 
has told us I dont think she did appropriate research or shouldve been convinced 
the person she found online was operating a genuine recovery business. 
Ive then considered whether NatWest shouldve done more in relation to warning 
Miss W that the payment she was making could be to a scammer. When Miss W 
made the payment to the recovery firm this was of relatively low value for her 
account, especially considering the amounts discussed above. So I agree with the 
investigator that this payment wouldnt have highlighted to NatWest as something 
that was likely to be part of an APP scam. So it didnt need to provide her with an 
effective warning, as per the code. And in any event, Im not convinced a warning 
wouldve made a difference here, as shes told us she believed the person was 
legitimate.
I accept Miss W has lost funds due to two scams, but I dont agree NatWest should hold any 
responsibility for reimbursing these funds.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman