DRN-4101500
The complaint
Miss B complains that Santander UK Plc closed her account and will not re-open it. 
What happened
In summary, Miss B received two transfers which were flagged by the sending bank as 
fraudulent. As a result, a block was placed on her account and Santander eventually closed 
it following a review. They gave her 30 days notice of this. 
Miss B referred the complaint to our service and the Investigator agreed that Santander had 
closed the account in line with the terms and conditions. So, they did not think Santander 
had to re-open the account or provide reasons as to why they closed it. 
Miss B disagreed with the outcome. She was unhappy that Santander had placed a fraud 
marker against her name which was stopping her from opening bank accounts elsewhere 
and wanted this removed. 
The case was passed to me, and I issued a provisional decision, which read as follows: 
I think Santander acted reasonably when it decided to close Miss Bs account and did not 
agree to re-open it. And I can confirm that it has already removed the fraud marker against 
Miss Bs name. As Miss B may not have been made aware of this previously, I wanted to let 
her know and give her the chance to respond with any additional comments or evidence 
before I issue a final decision. 
I firstly considered if it was reasonable for Santander to close Miss Bs account. The terms 
and conditions for the account state that Santander may close the account at any time by 
giving notice, without giving any reason. They also state that one of the conditions of the 
account is that the account holder does not act in any way as to give rise to reasonable 
suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities. Looking at this, Im satisfied that Santander 
closed the account in line with the terms and conditions when it gave 30 days notice. As I 
think they have followed the correct process, I cant see they have made an error in the 
circumstances.  
As I think Santanders decision to close Miss Bs account was reasonable, it therefore 
follows that I dont think they made an error when they decided not to re-open it. They were 
under no obligation to, and I see no reason for them to overturn their decision. 
Miss B was concerned that she had a fraud marker placed against her name, which affected 
her ability to open bank accounts with other providers. I can see that the marker was placed 
at the same time that the account was closed. And this was based on the information 
available to Santander at that time. Namely that the funds in question had quickly been 
transferred out of her account after they were received, with a reference of wages despite 
that fact that Miss B was listed as unemployed on their system. Because of this, a decision 
to place a marker, known as a CIFAS marker, was made. And based on the information that 
was available to them at that time, I think this was reasonable. 
Miss B then submitted an appeal request and as a result of this, Santander agreed to 
remove the CIFAS marker in January 2022, and they have confirmed this has been 
completed. While I have not seen the contents of the appeal that led to the marker being 
removed, the notes suggest this was a statement showing proof of where the credit came 
from. And it appears this led to Santander removing the marker, as requested.
In summary, based on what Ive seen so far, I think it was reasonable that Santander 
decided to close Miss Bs account with 30 days notice and did not then re-open it at a later 
date. And I think their decision to place a CIFAS marker based on the information available 
at that time was reasonable, though this was later removed after they received additional 
evidence from Miss B. 
Santander responded and accepted my provisional decision. Miss B did not respond with 
any additional comments or evidence.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to deviate 
from the findings set out in my provisional decision. 
So, for the reasons outlined above, I think Santander acted reasonably in the circumstances 
and I dont require them to take any further action.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman