DRN-3563442
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that TSB Bank plc didnt take any action to stop the repeated transactions 
he made to companies involved with gambling from leaving his account.
What happened
Mr M has a gambling addiction, and over several years he transferred large amounts of 
money from his TSB current account to various gambling companies. Fortunately, Mr M has 
now received support for his gambling addiction, but he raised a complaint with TSB as he 
felt they should have done more to recognise his gambling addiction and to have stopped 
the transfers he made to the various gambling companies from leaving his account.
TSB looked at Mr Ms complaint. They explained that they dont offer a gambling block 
service, such as Mr M would have liked, and because Mr M was complaining about not 
receiving a service that they dont offer, TSB didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that TSB could be 
considered to have acted unfairly here, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can sympathise with Mr Ms position, and its clear from Mr Ms TSB 
account statements that he did transfer a considerable sum of money to various gambling 
companies during the time under consideration here.
However, while many financial institutions do offer a service which allows account holders to 
put a voluntary block which prevents transfers being made to gambling companies, TSB 
have confirmed that they dont such a service. And neither are they under any requirement 
or obligation to do so.
As such, given the impartial nature of this service, I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably 
uphold this complaint against TSB. Because if I were to do so, I would in effect be censuring 
TSB for not providing a service they were neither obliged nor had chosen to provide.
Its also important to recognise that the types of gambling blocks provided by many financial 
institutions are voluntary in nature, meaning that its up to the account holder to implement 
the gambling block, and also that the account holder retains the option to remove the 
gambling block should they want to do so. 
As such, I feel that while these voluntary gambling blocks do provide a degree of support for 
account holders who have a gambling addiction, they dont provide any guarantee that the 
account holder wont disable the block in order to continue making transfers to gambling 
companies. And consequently, even had TSB had a voluntary gambling block facility in 
place, I dont feel that this would have necessarily meant that Mr M definitely wouldnt have 
made the transfers to the gambling companies, given that he would always have retained 
the option to disable the gambling block.
Im happy to hear that Mr M has now received support from various sources and has been 
able to control and hopefully conquer his gambling addiction. And I note that TSB have 
made a note of Mr Ms gambling addiction and have indicated that they are considering 
providing a voluntary gambling block facility in the future. But I dont feel that TSB potentially 
offering such a facility in the future does imply any past unfair treatment of customers with 
gambling addiction because of TSBs not offering that facility in the past. And this is 
because, as explained, TSB were under no obligation to provide such a facility.
Im aware that Mr M feels that TSB should have monitored his account more closely, and 
that many of the larger deposits he made to gambling companies should have been flagged 
as unusual by their systems. But banks such as TSB generally dont monitor customers 
accounts in the way that Mr M suggests here. Instead, banks generally employ automated 
systems to monitor accounts for signs of potential fraud or other forms of financial crime. 
And transfers to companies, including companies involved in gambling, generally wont 
trigger or alert such automated fraud prevention systems.
Finally, I note that TSB have advised that they had no record of Mr Ms gambling addiction 
prior to November 2021, when Mr M raised his complaint with them. However, its clear from 
an internal note dated 4 November 2020, that a TSB agent had recognised that there were a 
large number of gambling transactions present on Mr Ms account.
I feel this was a lost opportunity for TSB, and that TSB could have potentially done more to 
assist Mr M at that time, including referring Mr M to the support that he has now thankfully 
received. But I also feel it must be recognised that the options available for TSB to have 
provided support at this time were limited, given that they didnt offer a gambling block 
facility. And while I feel that it would have been best practice for TSB to have spoken with  
Mr M about the gambling transactions present on his account when they were first 
recognised by them in November 2020, I dont feel that it can be conjected with any 
reasonable degree of certainty that Mr M would necessarily have stopped making the 
transfers to gambling companies, had TSB spoken to him about them at that time.
All of which means that, while I do empathise with Mr M personally, I dont feel that I can 
fairly or reasonably uphold this complaint against TSB in this instance. And this is because, 
ultimately, TSB didnt offer the service, and werent obliged to offer the service, that Mr M is 
complaining about not having received. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman