DRN-1726910
The complaint
Miss K complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very hasnt properly 
applied a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) promotion to her account and has charged her for 
incorrect and faulty items that were sent to her.
What happened
Miss K opened a new credit account with Shop Direct in December 2018. She placed an 
order for eight items that were Christmas gifts. Miss K said that she requested that the whole 
order was placed on a BNPL promotion at the time she placed the order online.
One of the items that was ordered was incorrect and Miss K made arrangements for a 
replacement item. That was also incorrect. Miss K ordered a further replacement and the 
wrong item was sent again. Miss K returned the first incorrect item in January 2019 and the 
value was credited to her account. 
Miss K complained about the incorrect items being sent and that one of the other items in 
the order was faulty. Miss K was also upset to discover that the BNPL promotion had not 
been applied to her account. Miss K says that she tried to arrange to return the items and 
explain that the account was on a BNPL promotion but Shop Direct were unhelpful and 
stated that the account was due for payment. Miss K did not pay the amount due and Shop 
Direct sold the debt to a third party. 
Miss K complained to this service and said that she had not been able to resolve matters 
with Shop Direct. 
Shop Direct said that there was no record that the order was on a BNPL promotion and this 
option had not been selected by Miss K at the time of placing her order. It said that her 
account was therefore due to be repaid. It acknowledged that the wrong items had been sent 
but stated that of the three sent out only one had been returned. It agreed to refund the 
incorrect items and the faulty item if Miss K sent them back. Shop Direct also offered £20 
compensation to reflect the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ks complaint. She didnt think there was enough evidence 
to say that the BNPL option was selected so she didnt think Shop Direct had done anything 
wrong by requesting payment. She thought that the offer to refund the items if they were 
returned was reasonable. But she thought that the offer of £20 compensation wasnt enough 
to reflect the trouble and upset caused by the wrong item being delivered three times. She 
thought that Shop Direct hadnt taken into account Miss Ks repeated requests for the correct 
item and the upset caused as it was a Christmas gift for a child. She thought that Shop 
Direct should pay £75 compensation.
Shop Direct didnt agree with this view and thought that the £20 offered was fair and 
reasonable given the short period of upset. It pointed out that Miss K had raised issues with 
the faulty item a number of weeks later and it had agreed to a return of all the items well 
outside the returns period. 
Miss K said she had now returned the items, but she was still unhappy because she felt that 
the website had not correctly recorded her request for BNPL.
As the parties didnt agree the complaint was passed to me to decide. Before it was 
allocated to me Shop Direct confirmed that it did now agree to pay £75 compensation to 
Miss K. Miss K wants her outstanding balance written off. 
I asked Shop Direct for an up to date statement of Miss Ks account but as this has now 
been passed to a third party this has not been provided. Shop Direct said that the items 
returned by Miss K had not been received and asked for proof of posting. Miss K provided 
receipts and Shop Direct removed one of the incorrect items and the faulty item from Miss 
Ks outstanding balance. Miss K was asked to confirm what was in the parcels that she 
returned or provide further proof of posting but she hasnt responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked carefully at the online activity checker provided by Shop Direct and I cant see 
that the BNPL option was requested. I can appreciate that Miss K thinks that she did request 
this but where the evidence is contradictory or incomplete, I must base my view on what I 
think is more likely to be the case. I think it is more likely that Miss K overlooked this aspect 
at the time of ordering given the website records. So, I cant say that Shop Direct were 
wrong to request payment of the account.
I note that Shop Direct has agreed to pay Miss K £75 for the inconvenience and I agree that 
this is fair and reasonable given the difficulty Miss K had with the incorrect items and the 
number of requests that were made.
Miss K has said that all of the items were returned and has provided proof of postage. Shop 
Direct took some time to look into this matter and it isnt clear whether it is able to locate the 
return or not. It has concluded on the basis of the two receipts and the weight of each parcel 
that two different items were returned and has therefore refunded Miss K for the faulty item 
and one of the incorrect items.
Miss K explained at the time that she had kept all of the items and she was happy to send 
them back if required. When Miss K was contacted for proof of postage, she said she had 
sent all of the items back. Miss K also produced the postage receipts. I have no reason to 
doubt what Miss K says and Shop Direct hasnt been able to confirm what was received. In 
these circumstances I think it is more likely that all the items were returned in two parcels 
and so Shop Direct should also credit Miss Ks account with the value of the third incorrect 
item as it previously agreed.     
Putting things right
In order to put things right Shop Direct should credit Miss Ks account with the value of the 
third incorrect item and pay her £75 for the trouble and upset caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
trading as Very should put things right for Miss K by doing what Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman