DRN-3856766
The complaint
Miss M complains about two loans provided to her by Chetwood Financial Limited, 
(Chetwood), which she says were unaffordable. 
What happened
Chetwood agreed two loans for Miss M. Loan 1 was for £11,500 and was taken out in     
June 2019. Loan 2 was for £12,900 and was taken out in October 2021. From the most 
recent information Ive seen, it appears that both loans havent been repaid. Some of the 
information Chetwood provided about the loans is shown in the table below.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsLoan term 
(months)
1. 8/6/2019 Unpaid £11,500 £205.05 84
2. 1/10/2021 Unpaid £12,900 £241.62 84
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator noted that Chetwood had offered to settle Loan 2 and that Miss M had 
accepted the offer. So, he didnt comment further on Loan 2. With regard to Loan 1, he didnt 
recommend that Miss Ms complaint about this loan should be upheld. He said that the 
lender shouldve taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Miss Ms financial situation. 
He couldnt see that it did this. Hed looked at the information Miss M had sent this Service 
and considered whether Chetwood wouldve done anything differently had it seen this 
information before lending to her. But based on this information, he hadnt seen anything 
which suggested the lender wouldve concluded that Miss M wouldnt have been able to 
have sustainably repaid this loan.
Miss M disagreed and responded to the adjudicators view to say, in summary, that:-
- Her credit file clearly showed an increased borrowing over a short period of time. This 
showed she was trapped in a cycle of debt which was ever increasing by taking on high 
interest loans which increased her overall debt.
- She asked to see Chetwoods credit file to check that this showed a number of high 
interest loans along with payday borrowing.
- She said that at the time she had Chetwoods loans, she also had loans with three high 
cost lenders and a credit card with a total amount of nearly £10,000 outstanding. She 
also owed her partner over £3,000.
- If Chetwood had requested her bank statements, it would have clearly seen there were 
issues. 
- Her bank statements showed constant borrowing from and paying back her partner. The 
money was borrowed to pay off a loan and to ensure she could pay other bills as she 
was struggling to make the payments.
- She needed to continue to borrow to meet any financial commitments.
- The fact that she had to continually borrow from a partner wasnt something that would 
demonstrate a stable financial situation. 
The adjudicator responded to say that hed asked the lender if he could send the credit file to 
Miss M. But he also said that she needed to bear in mind that there was more than one 
credit reference agency and that they didnt all report all of a consumer's accounts. In normal 
circumstances, he wouldnt expect a lender to carry out more than one credit check. With 
regard to Miss Ms bank statements, hed had a look at these again and focussed on her 
income and outgoings over two whole months. He thought both months showed that Loan 1 
was affordable.
Chetwood didnt agree to Miss M seeing its credit file.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss M
and to Chetwood on 10 November 2022. I summarise my findings:
As Chetwood had agreed to settle Loan 2, Id said that I wouldnt be investigating this loan. 
Id noted that when Chetwood lent to Miss M the regulator was the Financial Conduct 
Authority and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook. 
Id said that Chetwood would be aware of the relevant regulations and how we considered 
irresponsible lending complaints, so I didnt go into detail on these points. 
Id thought about whether Chetwood completed reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Miss Ms application for Loan 1 to satisfy itself that she would be able to make her 
repayments without experiencing adverse consequences. Id thought about the information it 
knew, and what it ought reasonably to have known.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £11,500. Id noted that Chetwood had gathered some information from     
Miss M about her income, rent and regular expenditure. It had also carried out a credit 
check. 
Chetwoods business file showed Miss Ms net monthly income as £1,510 and it said that it 
had verified this via a credit reference agency database. Chetwoods file showed Miss Ms 
rent as £160 and her monthly living costs as £400. Chetwoods credit checks showed 
monthly credit commitments of £130. Chetwood calculated that Miss M had a monthly 
disposable income of at least £604. I couldnt see that Chetwood had obtained independent 
verification of Miss Ms living costs.
Chetwood didnt provide this Service with its original credit checks, but it had provided its 
own report of these. Id asked the adjudicator to ask Chetwood for a copy of the original 
checks. It hadnt provided these but had provided some more information from those checks. 
Id noted that Chetwoods report said that Miss M had four active credit accounts. There 
were three credit cards with a total balance of £2,131 and a current account balance of £8. 
Id noted that Miss Ms credit card balances had exceeded credit limits twice in the               
12 months prior to the loan application. I thought this might have caused Chetwood concerns 
in view of the monthly disposable income amount calculated by Chetwood. It didnt appear 
that there was data available in the credit checks regarding short term loans and fixed term 
loans. In the absence of such information in the credit checks, I thought Chetwood ought to have gathered information from Miss M about her loans to verify her actual expenditure on 
credit commitments each month. But I couldnt see that it did this. 
Miss M was entering into a significant commitment with Chetwood. She was borrowing a 
relatively large amount and she needed to make monthly repayments of around £205 for    
84 months which wasnt an insignificant period of time. So, I thought the loan term together 
with the loan amount ought to have suggested to Chetwood the need to carry out further 
checks rather than relying on the information provided by Miss M and the credit check 
results. As I couldnt see that Chetwood did take further steps to verify Miss Ms financial 
situation, I didnt think that the checks it carried out before providing Miss M with her loan 
were reasonable and proportionate.
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
couldnt say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I needed to decide whether it was more 
likely than not that a proportionate check would have told Chetwood that Miss M would have 
been unable to repay this loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not 
just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Id carefully considered the information provided.
Id reviewed a credit report on another of Miss Ms complaints with this Service from around 
the time of Loan 1 to find out more about Miss Ms credit commitments. Miss M had also 
provided this Service with her current account statements from around the time of Loan 1 
and Id asked the adjudicator to ask Miss M for more information about her financial 
situation. Id reviewed all this to give me the best picture of what the lender was likely to 
have seen if it had made better checks, although I wasnt suggesting that these were the 
checks that Chetwood should have done. 
The credit report Id reviewed suggested that Miss M was having serious difficulty managing 
her finances. Shed borrowed a loan of around £6,405 in March 2019 which appeared to 
have been used to repay a loan for £6,311 which shed borrowed seven months earlier. And 
in the four months prior to her loan application Miss M had borrowed what appeared to be 
eight short term loans totalling around £3,050. The most recent short term loan for £850 was 
taken out just six days before her loan application to Chetwood. Shed taken out a loan of 
£650 in November 2017 which appeared to be unpaid. In May 2019, Miss M had a       
£1,964 balance on one of her credit cards which was near its credit limit of £2,000. One of 
her two mail order accounts appeared to be in arrears. 
I could see from Miss Ms current account statements that her monthly income varied 
between around £1,290 to £1,520. Miss M said that the variations were due to sickness or 
because her overtime varied. I could also see that Miss M wasnt paying most of the usual 
living costs from her account and that there were numerous large transfers to and from her 
partner. Id asked Miss M about the transfers. She said she was trapped in a cycle of debt 
and was borrowing from her partner along with loads of other companies to pay what she 
owed and as the interest grew, the further she got trapped in the situation. Shed paid what 
she could afford to her partner for the bills. 
I could also see that Miss M received the loan of £850 Id referred to above in                   
early June 2019 and she was making a monthly loan repayment to a high cost credit 
provider of around £279. I also noted that there was some gambling. In the eleven days 
period from 27 May 2019 she had spent around £400 on online gambling transactions. 
So, if Chetwood had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, I thought it 
was likely it would have discovered Miss Ms income was sometimes likely to have been less 
than shed declared, her reliance on her partner to pay living costs and to borrow from him, the extent of her other financial commitments including a likely recent reliance on short term 
loans and her expenditure on gambling. I thought Chetwood ought reasonably to have 
realised that Miss M was over committed financially and that she was having significant 
difficulties managing her finances. Miss Ms finances didnt appear to be stable and I didnt 
think that further checks would have provided the assurance Chetwood needed. And I 
thought Chetwood ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Miss M 
wouldve been able to repay Loan 1 without her having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without her failing to make any other repayment she had a contractual or statutory duty to 
make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on her financial 
situation. 
So, I thought Chetwood made an unfair lending decision when it agreed to lend Loan 1 to 
Miss M. And, subject to any further representations by Miss M or Chetwood, I intended to 
uphold Miss Ms complaint about Loan 1, and I set out a method of putting things right for 
her which addressed Chetwoods failings and Miss Ms loss.
Id noted that Chetwood had agreed to uphold Miss Ms complaint about Loan 2. I hadnt 
included redress directions for that loan as it appeared that Chetwood had already provided 
the redress for that loan. If that wasnt the case, Id said that the parties should tell me so in 
their responses to my provisional decision.
Miss M responded to my provisional decision to say that she agreed with my findings and my 
instructions to put things right. 
Chetwood disagreed with my provisional decision and responded to say, in summary, that:-
- It was unable to see any adverse information on its credit checks and there were no 
missed payments. There were no active short term loans shown.
- It had reviewed the affordability checks and data available at the time of the application, 
and it didnt think that it was proportionate to ask for bank statements.
- The data included in its credit checks showed that Miss M had three short term high cost 
accounts previously, but they were all settled by the time she applied for a loan with it. 
The most recent short term high cost loan that it could see, was settled in             
October 2014.
- It wasnt aware that Miss M owed £3,000 to her partner. It was unable to confirm if a 
review of bank statements would have enabled any financial institution to determine 
whether payments from a partner were income, contributions to expenses or a loan.
- Miss M made her repayments on time for the first nine months. There were then 
repayment holidays during Covid 19 and then missed payments due to a repayment 
date change. Miss Ms account has been up to date since July 2022 and she had made 
her repayments in full and on time since then.
- Its affordability assessments relied on information from the consumer and detailed 
bureau data. It also verified income using the Current Account Turnover database with a 
credit reference agency over a six month and twelve month period.
- It had no reason to suspect that the information Miss M provided about her living 
expenses was inaccurate.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Although Ive summarised and only set out the main points of Chetwoods response to my 
provisional decision, I can confirm that Ive read and carefully considered all of the 
arguments it has made. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for it, but I am still of 
the view that it was irresponsible for it to have agreed Loan 1 for Miss M. Ive explained my 
reasons in my provisional decision and Ive also responded to its main points in response to 
my provisional decision below. 
I note that Chetwood had reviewed the affordability checks and data available at the time of 
the application, and it didnt think that it was proportionate to ask for bank statements. 
Whilst it is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out, these 
should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the 
length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the 
credit. I dont think it was reasonable for Chetwood to rely on the expenditure information 
provided by Miss M and its credit checks without verifying her expenditure given the cost of 
the credit, and that she needed to make monthly payments on Loan 1 of £205 for 84 months, 
which wasnt an insignificant period of time. She was, after all, committing to repay 
£17,224.34 over that period. 
I think that Chetwoods affordability assessment needed to be more detailed and contain a 
greater degree of verification, in order for it to be reasonable and proportionate. I think this 
was especially the case as Miss M was entering into a substantial commitment with 
Chetwood and it should have taken great care to ensure that she would be able to repay the 
loan without suffering adverse consequences. I dont think that Chetwoods checks were 
enough here for it to get a clear picture of Miss Ms finances at the time of her application for  
Loan 1 and for the lender to be confident that she would be able to make her loan 
repayments over the life of the agreements, without her having to borrow further or suffering 
other adverse financial impacts. 
As I couldnt see that Chetwood did take further steps to verify Miss Ms financial situation, I 
dont think that the checks it carried out before providing Miss M with Loan 1 were 
reasonable and proportionate. 
I wasnt suggesting that Chetwood should have obtained bank statements. It could have also 
asked for copies of bills and/or receipts for her expenses and by asking her for more 
information about her credit commitments. But I think looking at Miss Ms bank statements 
gives me the best picture of what the lender would have been aware of had it asked Miss M 
more questions here or done further checks into her circumstances and the affordability of 
the lending. And in the absence of anything else from Chetwood showing what this 
information would have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to 
place considerable weight on it as an indication of what Miss Ms financial circumstances 
were more likely than not to have been at the time. Had it sought some verification of       
Miss Ms spending, I think Chetwood wouldve been in a better position to understand     
Miss Ms financial situation before it decided to lend to her. 
Chetwood also needed to do more than just ascertain whether the loan repayments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Whilst the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Miss M could make her repayments, it 
doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
With regard to the bureau data, I can see that this refers to 21 unsecured loan accounts 
although there is no context around these. I also note that there was no available data in 
relation to some other fixed term loan queries. If there was no available information in the 
credit checks about such loans, I think Chetwood ought to have gathered more information 
about Miss Ms loans to verify her actual expenditure on credit commitments each month.
With regard to the money Miss M owed her partner, I accept that it wouldnt be clear from a 
bank statement what the money transferred was for. But, in order to clarify a borrowers 
financial situation, I would have reasonably expected a lender to ask a consumer for more 
information if a bank statement was showing numerous transfers between parties.
I note Chetwood says that Miss M had made her repayments on time since July 2022 and in 
the first nine months of the loan. But I cant agree that just because Miss M had made her 
previous repayments to Chetwood, that this meant she wasnt struggling to meet them. 
Successfully meeting repayments doesnt automatically mean that she managed to do so 
without difficulty, in other words without her having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without her failing to make any other repayment she had a contractual or statutory duty to 
make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on her financial 
situation. 
I note that Chetwood verifies income using the Current Account Turnover database with a 
credit reference agency over a six month and twelve month period. But it hasnt provided any 
details of the results of such checks to this Service. So, I dont know whether the amounts 
passing through Miss Ms current account were income or something else. I would query 
whether the income verification tool was able to accurately verify Miss Ms monthly income. I 
note from Miss Ms bank statements that the three monthly salary amounts she received 
before she applied for the loan ranged from £1,290 to £1,520. She was also receiving money 
from her partner, a family member and from a payday lender. So, I think that a more 
accurate income verification would have arisen from checking payslips or bank statements 
rather than the use of a credit reference agency tool. 
I note that Chetwood had no reason to suspect that the information Miss M provided about 
her living expenses was inaccurate. But Miss M was entering into a commitment to make her 
monthly loan repayments for a relatively long period of time and I dont think it was sufficient 
in Miss Ms circumstances for Chetwood to rely on the information provided by Miss M in her 
loan application without verifying it because of this. Had Chetwood looked into Miss Ms 
circumstances in more proportionate detail then Im satisfied that it would have thought twice 
about lending her what it did here.
So overall, the additional information Chetwood has provided hasnt persuaded me that I 
should depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint and require Chetwood to take the following steps.
Putting things right  what Chetwood needs to do
Chetwood should put things right for Miss M as follows.
- Chetwood needs to ensure that Miss M only repays the principal borrowed of 
£11,500 on Loan 1. In other words, she shouldnt pay any interest or charges for 
Loan 1. So, Chetwood should remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the 
loan account from when it was opened.- Chetwood should treat any repayments made by Miss M as though they had 
been repayments of the principal amount of £11,500 borrowed on Loan 1.
- If this results in Miss M having made overpayments, then Chetwood should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled.
- If an outstanding balance remains then Chetwood should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss M, bearing in mind its obligation to treat her 
positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
- If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, any 
adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file as a result of the loan should 
be removed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Chetwood to take off tax from this interest. Chetwood 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Chetwood Financial Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading 
Putting things right  what Chetwood needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2023. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman