DRN-2817710
The complaint
Mr M is a sole trader. He complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined his application 
for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr M holds a personal current account with Santander. He applied to the bank for a Bounce 
Back Loan earlier this year. But Santander declined Mr Ms applications, on the basis that he 
wasnt trading on 1 March 2020  which was a requirement under the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme eligibility criteria.
Mr M complained as he didnt think Santander was treating him fairly. He explained that he 
was unable to work over the relevant period due to health reasons. He was, though, working 
previously  and wanted the bank to assess his application on the basis of previous years 
earnings, which were supported by tax returns. 
Santander maintained its decision. It said that as Mr M didnt meet the criteria set out in the 
rules of the Loan Scheme, there was nothing more that could be done. So Mr M referred the 
matter to us.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. He thought its decision to decline Mr Ms application had been made in line with the 
Loan Scheme rules and couldnt see that the bank could allow an exception. 
Mr M still thought hed been treated unfairly. So he asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M as I appreciate his strength of feeling 
over this matter, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for much the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, there were certain criteria that applicants 
had to meet in order to be eligible for a loan. This included the requirement that the applicant 
was carrying on business on 1 March 2020. The rules and requirements of the Loan Scheme 
were set by the British Business Bank, not Santander. 
Mr M wasnt trading on 1 March 2020 and so it follows that Santander correctly declined his 
application for a Bounce Back Loan. The bank was required to assess applications in 
accordance with the Loan Scheme rules and I can see that it did so here.
I appreciate what Mr M has told us about the reasons why he wasnt trading at the requisite 
time, which were outside of his control. And I recognise that unfortunately this means hes 
not been able to access the support offered by the Loan Scheme. But Santander doesnt 
have any discretion to set aside the Schemes rules or eligibility criteria  and there was no 
provision for it to make an exception of the kind that would be required in the circumstances 
here. So I dont think the bank acted unfairly when declining Mr Ms application and there is 
no basis on which I could require it to reconsider its decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman