DRN-3138310
The complaint
  This complaint is about a mortgage Mr G holds with Lloyds Bank PLC. He complains that 
Lloyds paid outstanding disputed freeholder charges, and then added the payments to the 
mortgage debt.
What happened
  The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint. He said that the mortgage 
contract gave Lloyds power to pay the freeholders disputed charges to protect its security, 
given that the freeholder was threatening to begin proceedings to forfeit the lease. But he 
also thought Lloyds should pay Mr G compensation for telling him on the phone it wouldnt 
be paying any charges but failing to tell him it had already paid them.
Lloyds accepted the investigators finding but Mr G asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
By way of a provisional decision issued on 18 October 2021, I set out, with reasons, how I 
was minded to determine this complaint, subject to any final submissions from the parties. 
The following is an extract from that provisional decision.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come to different conclusions from the investigator. I set out my 
provisional findings below so that both parties can comment before I finalise my decision.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Gs mortgages. Having done so, Im satisfied 
these allow Lloyds to pay the disputed ground rent as well as insurance, administrative 
and/or service charges and, I presume, legal costs. But this doesnt necessarily mean it was 
fair for it to do so in these circumstances. I would normally expect Lloyds to have paid the 
amounts asked for by the freeholders solicitors only where forfeiture of the lease(s) is a 
serious possibility. 
But that shouldnt happen when there is just the threat of forfeiture. The issue has to have 
been to court or a relevant tribunal where either there is a judgement against the lessee (in 
this case, Mr G) for the sums claimed, or its been found that there has been a breach of the 
lease. Whether or not Mr G knew that, Id expect Lloyds to. The relevant tribunal presently is 
the First-tier Tribunal (Property Chamber  Residential Property). Theres nothing in the 
available evidence to show a breach of any the leases was found by either a court or a 
tribunal, nor is there any evidence of a county court judgement showing that Mr G has been 
found liable to pay the sums claimed by the freeholder.
 
Due to the above, I dont think it was necessarily reasonable for Lloyds to pay the charges it 
paid in the circumstances in which it paid them. But that doesnt mean it has to refund them 
automatically to Mr Gs mortgage account. It could be that rather than paying something it 
shouldnt, Lloyds paid items sooner that it should have.
If Lloyds hadnt paid them, its likely the matters would have gone to a court or tribunal. So 
its possible it would have been found that Mr G had to pay these items  including any 
additional court or tribunal costs. 
If Mr G wants any payments refunded to his mortgage accounts, he needs to show Lloyds 
the money wasnt owed by him. To do this, Mr G could take the matter to a tribunal or other 
relevant authority. Itll be for him to choose the most appropriate forum; its not our place to 
advise him.
If it is then found that some, or all of the money already paid to the freeholder wasnt due, 
but the freeholder isnt ordered to return it, then Lloyds would need to refund the required 
amounts back to the mortgage account as at the date(s) they were paid. It would also need 
to refund any mortgage interest on the amounts that were incorrectly paid. 
Its possible that the process to prove the ground rent and other items shouldnt have been 
paid could cost Mr G more than it would have done for him to defend any action brought by 
the freeholder. If this is the case, I dont think it would be fair for him to pay any additional 
amount. So if Mr G provides Lloyds with proof he has paid additional costs to prove his case, 
it would need to refund these to him, minus those costs that would have been incurred if the 
cases(s) had gone to court or a tribunal in the first place.
That leaves the conversation in January 2019 when Lloyds apparently told Mr G it wouldnt 
debit his account with any further charges demanded from the freeholder. Strictly speaking, 
that wasnt an inaccurate statement, when taken insolation. However, it was misleading in 
that what the business failed to tell him, it seems, is that it had already paid the charges. 
For mis-managing Mr Gs understanding and expectations in that way, our investigator 
thought Lloyds should pay Mr G £100 compensation for his time, trouble and upset. I know 
he thinks thats not enough, but in all the circumstances, I consider it fair.  
I gave the parties until 1 November 2021 to respond to the provisional decision; both have 
done so. Lloyds had nothing further to say, whilst Mr G argued in some detail, and with 
supporting evidence, why he didnt owe the money Lloyds paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be departing from my provisional conclusions, but I will respond to Mr Gs further 
submission. 
I said in the provisional decision that Mr G needed to show Lloyds he didnt owe the money, 
and Mr G has focussed on that in his response. But that isnt something he needs to show 
me. It isnt something I can decide; thats a dispute between Mr G and his freeholder, and I 
have no jurisdiction over that. Thats why, in the award section of my provisional decision, I 
was more specific, saying that Mr G would need to provide proof from a relevant authority 
that the disputed payments werent legitimately due. 
In other words, before Lloyds must unwind the effect of the disputed payments, Mr G needs 
to take a case to a relevant authority (such as a court or tribunal as I mentioned) and win it. If 
he does that, Lloyds will have to unwind the payments and cover the extra costs Mr G can 
show he incurred in doing so, over and above the costs he would have incurred in defending 
action taken by the freeholder in the first place.
My final decision
My final decision is that should Mr G provide proof from a relevant authority that the disputed 
freeholder payments werent legitimately due, then provided the relevant authority doesnt 
also order the freeholder to refund him directly, Lloyds Bank PLC must:
refund to the mortgage account any amounts the relevant authority has determined 
werent legitimately due as at the date these were paid;
refund any mortgage interest that accrued on these amounts; and
pay any extra costs Mr G paid in proving the amounts werent legitimately due over and 
above what he would have needed to pay in defending any action brought by the 
freeholder.
Entirely separately from the above, and without any pre-conditions or contingencies, I order 
Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr £100 compensation. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman