DRN-3219245
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Future Wealth Management (FWM) - who was an appointed
representative of Pi Financial Ltd (Pi) - invested the money in her Self-Invested Personal
Pension (SIPP) into funds that were too risky for her. When she tried to transfer them to a
lower risk arrangement, she was informed by the SIPP administrator, Forthplus, that she had
to pay significant exit charges of over £21,000 if she chose to do so. These charges were
levied by the investment firm Cornhill.
Mrs H approached Pi in 2018 who helped her lodge a complaint against Forthplus. Pi said
Forthplus should have done some due diligence on Cornhill and not accepted this
investment into the SIPP due to its charging structure and investments. Pi had done their
own due diligence and had concluded in October 2017 that investments through Cornhill
were unsuitable for retail clients and advisers were not permitted to introduce business to
Cornhill.
An investigator at this service concluded that Forthplus had simply followed instructions of
Mrs Hs financial adviser to invest her funds into Cornhill, and so he didnt uphold the
complaint against them. He informed Mrs H (in line with DISP 3.5.2 G in the FCA handbook)
it might be appropriate in the circumstances to complain against Pi, which she agreed to.
Forthplus has since gone into liquidation and Mrs Hs complaint against them was referred to
the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. I agreed it should be upheld, but as the 
redress suggested was slightly different to the investigators, I gave parties further 
opportunity to comment. Neither replied within the given deadline.
As I didnt receive any further comments, I see no reason to depart from my findings which 
are set out again below.
What happened
In November 2017 Mrs H was advised by FWM to transfer her occupational pension to a
SIPP. FWM also became the ongoing adviser for the SIPP. Mrs H was identified to be a
cautious investor and the advice was to invest her funds into a cautious portfolio with TAM
Asset Management. Mrs H hasnt complained about this advice, so I havent considered this
as part of this complaint.
The SIPP was established in March 2018 and Mrs H withdrew her tax-free cash lump sum,
like she had intended when she transferred her pension. The forms for this drawdown were
sent to her by an unregulated party (C). On 26 April 2018, C sent her a risk questionnaire
and an application form for the Cornhill investments with the request to sign and return them.
Mrs Hs answers on the risk questionnaire confirmed again that she was a very cautious and
inexperienced investor.
On the same day, a few hours later, the completed forms were sent to Forthplus from an
email account of Tidal Wealth Management (TWM)  a firm that had recently ceased to be
regulated. The individual who advised Mrs H on the SIPP (Mr Y) was a director of both FWM
and TWM. His sister did administration work for both companies and was the one who
forwarded the forms to Forthplus. The Cornhill application form showed Mr Y of FWM as the
financial adviser.
Pi said their representative did not advise on the Cornhill investment. Mr Y was abroad at the
relevant time and they raised concerns about the authenticity of his signature on the form.
They say it was the C who gave the advice to invest in Cornhill instead of TAM. They said
that in any event, if Mr Y was involved, he acted for TWM who wasnt associated with Pi.
Our investigator thought the evidence showed Pi was responsible for Mrs H being invested
in Cornhill. He thought Mrs H should now be able to transfer to a suitable investment without
penalty. He asked Pi to pay for an adviser to help Mrs H decide where she should invest.
They should also pay any charges which she will incur by transferring.
Pi disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence shows that Forthplus received instructions to invest Mrs Hs funds into
investments with Cornhill under advice from Mr Y, acting for FWM. I appreciate it was C who
sent Cornhill application forms to Mrs H and she has confirmed that it was C who was in
contact with her about this. So I think its fair to say C was involved in this transaction and
possibly even suggested these investments. Pi says C had access to Mr Ys office and likely
inserted his electronic signature on the forms. Theres no reason for me to doubt Pis
testimony that Mr Y was on an extended stay abroad during this time, so its possible
someone else inserted electronic signatures for him.
However, its clear that C didnt act on his own here. The evidence suggests he forwarded
the completed forms to Mr Ys administrator who forwarded them on to F. And given the
speed with which this happened (a few hours between C sending forms to Mrs H and Mr Ys
sister sending the completed forms on to F), I think its fair to say there was likely an
established relationship between Mr Y and C and they knew this application would come in.
In fact Mr Ys sister sent Cornhill an application for another customer at the same time.
I think on balance its more likely Mr Ys sister who was also working for his firm had access
to her brothers signature and likely his consent to use it in his absence than a third party. In
any event, I doubt she would have forwarded Cornhill forms showing FWM being the
financial adviser if this information was untrue.
So on balance I think FWM likely knew Mrs H was about to invest in Cornhill and helped
arrange these investments which were clearly unsuitable for her. The forms set out the
significant charges which included an establishment charge of 0.5% of the fund value each
quarter for 9 years which had to be fully paid if the investment was sold early.
I also considered Pis statement that if Mr Y was involved he would have been acting for
TWM. The email to Forthplus forwarding the Cornhill forms was sent from a TWM address,
however as set out above Mr Ys sister worked as an administrator for both TWM and FWM.
And the forms showed Mr Y acting for FWM which I think carries more weight here. If any
commission was paid from Cornhill it likely would have been paid to the firm on the
application form which was FWM.
I also note that Forthplus was sent an invoice for the commission for the recommendation of
the SIPP on headed paper of TWM, however it said at the bottom of the invoice: Please payby Bank Transfer out Network Pi Financial. Forthplus said in their response to the complaint
against them that Pi received this commission, and this is supported by the fact Mr Y of
FWM was recorded as the introducing financial adviser on the SIPP.
I think this illustrates further that there was no strict separation of using TWM and FWM in
correspondence. So having looked at all the evidence available I think Cornhill investments
were arranged by FWM.
Theres no dispute the investments were unsuitable for Mrs H and I think FWM should have
been aware of this. So I dont think they were acting in her best interest when they facilitated
this for her. They should have clearly told her that this was different to what FWM had
recommended to her in their suitability report and that she shouldnt do this. I have no
reason to believe Mrs H wouldnt have listened to an adviser that was regulated, as opposed
to C.
So I think FWM is responsible for Mrs H being invested in unsuitable funds with Cornhill and
being exposed to the substantial fees in this case. Without their involvement she would have
been invested in a cautious funds in line with her attitude to risk.
Putting things right
For the reasons above, I think its fair and reasonable Pi compensates Mrs H for her losses
here. My aim is that Mrs H should be put as closely as possible into the position she would
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I think Mrs H would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what she
would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given
Mrs H's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Pi do?
To compensate Mrs H fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mrs H's investment with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is
payable.
Pi should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Pi should pay into Mrs H's pension plan to increase its value by the
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs H's pension plan, it should pay that
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to
HMRC, so Mrs H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs H's actual or expectedmarginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that 
Mrs H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs H would have been able to take a tax 
free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
The calculations below take into account the charges Mrs H will face when
surrendering the Cornhill investments and any ongoing charges that were paid.
Pi should either provide advice to Mrs H about where to invest and arrange a switch, 
both free of charge if Mrs H wishes to continue using the services of Pi for this. If not, 
Pi should cover the cost for another adviser. In this scenario Ms H should provide Pi
with the invoice for the advice she has taken.
Pay Mrs H £ £300 to compensate her for the worry and concern she would have felt
when she realised she was invested in unsuitable investments which were too high
risk and she couldn't change this without significant charges reducing her pension
value.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the
interest, it should tell Mrs H how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mrs H a tax
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs H asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Investments 
made through 
CornhillStill 
exists For half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment after all exit charges,
establishment charges etc, assuming it is surrendered at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Pi should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Mrs H paid into the investment should be added to the fair value
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and
deducts that figure at the end.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs H wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher
return.
I consider that Mrs H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives.
So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs H into that position. It does not
mean that Mrs H would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and
50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs H could have obtained from
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to compensate Mrs H as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman