DRN-4350205
The complaint
Miss T has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to stop 
gambling transactions from leaving her account despite her having a gambling block in 
place.
Background
Miss T has explained that she contacted NatWest in 2020 by phone and asked it to apply a 
gambling block to her account as she was gambling in a compulsive way, and it was causing 
her financial difficulties and negatively impacting her mental health. In addition to the 
gambling block with NatWest Miss T also registered with external gambling groups so she 
would be blocked from using gambling providers directly and excluded that way as well. 
However, she has said that despite having put these safeguarding measures in place she 
was still able to gamble via her NatWest account. Most of the gambling transactions she did 
were via a third-party payment service Ill refer to as X. Miss T has said that she lost large 
amounts of money by gambling through X and never received any support from NatWest. 
She wants the bank to refund these gambling losses as she feels the transactions should 
never have been allowed to leave her account. 
NatWest has said that the gambling block was added to Miss Ts account in 2020 when she 
requested it. However, it has also explained that the block isnt guaranteed to work 100% of 
the time and there are limitations on how effective it can be. It has said that the block 
wouldnt have stopped the transactions to X as its not a gambling website and NatWest 
wouldnt have known Miss T was using it to gamble, as it can be used for a wide variety of 
online transactions. In addition, the payments to X were faster payments linked to Miss Ts 
bank account and not her debit card. These gambling block doesnt stop faster payment 
transactions either as its linked to Miss Ts card details and not her account details. 
Therefore, it didnt think it had done anything wrong in allowing the payments to X to go 
through and it refused Miss Ts request for a refund.
Unhappy with NatWests response Miss T brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into it already. He found that although Miss T asked for the block to be 
applied in August 2020 it wasnt added until December that year. However he also noted that 
after it was added Miss T would sporadically remove the block for periods of time before 
adding back on. So he said that even though NatWest shouldve added the block sooner he 
wasnt convinced it wouldve prevented Miss T from gambling over that four month period. 
However he did think NatWest shouldve offered Miss T more support than it did so he asked 
it to pay her £200 compensation in recognition of that. 
NatWest accepted the investigators findings, but Miss T didnt. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me for consideration. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two separate issues regarding Miss Ts complaint that need to be taken into 
consideration, the first is what happened when she called NatWest in August 2020 to ask it 
to add the gambling block to her card and the second is whether or not the transactions to X 
shouldve been stopped by the block. 
In regard to the first instance, NatWest accepts that Miss T contacted it in August 2020 and 
the gambling block was discussed at that time. Unfortunately, its been unable to allocate the 
call recording, but I accept what Miss T has told us and that it was her expectation when the 
call ended that the gambling block was in place to help her control her compulsive spending. 
However the block wasnt added at that time and it wasnt until December 2020 that the 
block was eventually registered on Miss Ts card. 
This is a serious failing on the part of NatWest. It can be extremely difficult for consumer with 
vulnerabilities, especially those relating to compulsive spending, to contact their banks and 
ask for help. So that NatWest would receive this request and then fail to act on it is very 
worrying. Our investigator suggested NatWest pay Miss T £200 compensation in recognition 
of that failing and I think this is appropriate. It is reassuring to see that in its final response to 
Miss Ts complaint NatWest offered to put her in touch with its support team. I hope that 
Miss T finds this useful and that its able to provide her with some additional safeguarding. 
The second issue is whether or not the gambling block shouldve stopped Miss T from being 
able to access gambling sites through X. Unfortunately gambling blocks, like the one offered 
by NatWest, have limitations, and arent guaranteed to prevent consumers from being able 
to access all forms of gambling. They essentially work by identifying gambling providers that 
are registered as such and stopping payments to them. However, when consumers use third 
party payment providers, like X, the block doesnt realise that the intended transaction is a 
gambling one. And so, the payment will go through. Because Miss T was sending payments 
to X and not a gambling retailer directly the block didnt work, and NatWest was unaware 
Miss T was gambling. 
It wouldnt be reasonable for me to say NatWest failed to stop gambling transactions from 
leaving Miss Ts account because it was unaware that these transactions were linked to 
gambling. It is also true that gambling blocks wont stop faster payment transactions, which 
are those online transactions linked to account details as opposed to card details. 
While I understand why Miss T feels the way she does, and I understand the impact of these 
transactions has been incredibly difficult for both her finances and over all health, I cant 
conclude that theyre linked to any failing on the part of the bank or its gambling block. While 
tools like the gambling block can be useful, theyre not perfect and even when applied to 
someones card, its possible to circumvent them. So I cant uphold this part of Miss Ts 
complaint and I cant ask NatWest to refund her gambling losses to her. 
Putting things right
NatWest should pay Miss T £200 compensation in recognition of its failure to offer her 
support when she first contacted the bank in August 2020. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partially uphold Miss Ts complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman