DRN-1628228
The complaint
Mr H complains about a chargeback claim Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax UK, made 
on his behalf.
What happened
Mr H made an online booking for a hire car to use while he was abroad in 2019. He received 
an email before with an estimation of the hire costs and thought that this included theft 
protection and collision damage waiver. When he collected the car, he explained that he had 
his own excess insurance, and so did not need that. However, when he returned the car and 
paid his invoice using his Halifax credit card, he found hed been charged an additional 529 
euros for the theft protection and collision damage waiver.
Mr H made a chargeback request, which Halifax raised for him. He said that the amount he 
was charged was not what was agreed, as it had included theft protection and third-party 
collision damage waiver. But the hire company didnt accept the chargeback claim as it said 
that Mr H had received the service he reserved, and the rental amount and options were 
agreed by him in the signed rental agreement. It said the online booking hed made was 
through its American website.
Halifax said that it wasnt able to change the decision to debit Mr Hs account with the 
payment, as it said the documents from the hire company showed the additional charges 
and Mr Hs signed agreement to them.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that Halifax had acted reasonably as the hire company had provided sufficient evidence 
to defend Mr Hs chargeback claim. She was satisfied the claim had been processed 
correctly and promptly. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings. He asked whether it was legal for the hire 
company to provide a quote without any insurance for driving in Europe. Mr H said that credit 
card companies are jointly responsible for the actions of suppliers, and he uses credit cards 
for this protection. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to consider Mr Hs complaint about Halifax and the actions it took in relation 
to his chargeback request, rather than that of the hire company.
And having done this, I agree with the findings of the investigator in that I dont think Halifax 
has acted unfairly or inappropriately in the way it has dealt with Mr Hs claim. I can see that 
Mr H has also referred to section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, as well as 
chargeback, so Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision. 
There are times when a consumer could ask their card issuer to reverse payments made on 
their card by making a chargeback request. Chargeback isnt a legal right, and there is no 
guarantee that the consumer will be able to get their money back. Banks dont have to raise 
a chargeback claim. But wed expect a bank to make a chargeback request when its 
reasonable to do so, but it would be bound by the rules of the card issuers scheme. This 
was Mastercard for Mr Hs payment, as he made the payment using his Halifax credit card.
Halifax put Mr Hs claim to the hire company within a reasonable time frame of Mr H making 
the request and considered the response it received from the hire company in its defence of 
the payment. And this included his signed rental agreement. 
I appreciate that the amount Mr H was quoted originally didnt include the addition of this 
insurance, however his signed rental agreement shows he initialled each of the additional 
costs as accepting them, including the theft protection and collision damage waiver.
 
The hire company has said that Mr H used its American website for his initial booking and 
reserved an exclusive rate with no insurance included. I appreciate he disputes this as the 
costs werent shown in US dollars, they were shown in the currency of the country where he 
would be using the vehicle. However, if Mr H did use the American website, I can see why 
this wouldve been an easy mistake to make and may have meant that his expectations of 
what the quoted price included werent met. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says that, in certain circumstances, the credit 
provider can be held jointly responsible if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services. 
But I dont consider that there was a breach of contract, or that the service was 
misrepresented when the details of the costs and what was included were provided to him in 
the rental agreement, which he signed and initialled.
 
Overall, I dont think Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably with Mr Hs claim. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman