DRN-3437960
The complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database.
What happened
Mr T says he was told in 2018 that money he had received into his account had been 
obtained fraudulently. His account was closed in 2019. In 2020 he discovered that Lloyds 
had added the marker when his account at a different financial business was closed. He 
says he is now unable to obtain an account.
Lloyds said it hadnt made a mistake. It had received a report that money paid into Mr Ts 
account was fraudulent and had been obtained through a scam. It had spoken to Mr T about 
it and he wasnt able to show he was entitled to the money. So, it closed his account and 
added the marker. When he complained it told him that it would consider any more evidence 
he could provide. But it hadnt received anything.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that there was a 
high bar for adding a CIFAS marker. Mr T had provided an explanation of how he had 
received this money. He said that he had lent money to ex-employees including to a specific 
friend in 2014 who had then moved back abroad. And that four years later that person had 
agreed to pay him £1,000 and sent payments of £500 and £600 on 7 December 2018. Mr T 
said he had given his account details to a third party as he didnt have that persons number. 
Mr T said that when he realised the money was fraudulent he had arranged through his 
brother who lives abroad to report the individual to the police. He said that police had been 
to the house of the person, but hed not been there. 
Lloyds had said that there was no explanation why the name of the person who sent the 
money differed to any party Mr T had mentioned. And why a person would pay Mr T back if 
he wasnt able to get in touch with him. Mr T had also offered to repay the money which it 
said was unusual if he was the victim himself.
Our investigator said he appreciated the time that had passed but that Mr T had given him a 
different name of the person sending the money to the one hed given Lloyds. He also 
seemed to have been inconsistent in a call with Lloyds about whether this had been reported 
to the police having first said he didnt know who to report this to. There was no evidence to 
support what Mr T said including any messages about the loan of money or the police report. 
What Mr T had said about his past character didnt help here. He had time to provide any 
evidence.
Mr T didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said hed given names of the 
family members of the person who owed him money too. He was still owed money. He only 
found out that there were two payments when he spoke to Lloyds. We hadnt taken sufficient 
account of what Lloyds said about the police report. There were many errors in what the 
investigator had said, and hed mentioned a few. He only found out what happened in 2020 
and Lloyds told him about the need for the report in 2021. He wanted time to provide this to 
Lloyds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Lloyds needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Ive listened to a recording of the call Mr T had with Lloyds in March 2021. I think Lloyds 
fairly explained its position and that it had no evidence to support what Mr T said. He gave 
the name of the person who sent him the money. At first he said he didnt report this to 
police. He then said that police had been to that persons home abroad. Lloyds said it would 
be helpful to have the report about that so it could see what had been done at the time. 
Mr T says in an email of 3 March 2022 to this service that I do not remember what name I 
gave to Lloyd[s] and that he was in a panic. He says he spoke to others abroad about this 
money. And that the person who owed it contacted him, but Mr T didnt have his details to 
get back in touch. Mr T sent his account details to a third party and that person told him that 
the money had been deposited
Mr T hasnt provided any police report. I think that if there was an existing report hes had 
sufficient time to do so during our investigation. In his email of 3 March 2022, he also stated 
that the police had said they only keep in record such reports for a year. He went onto to 
say that he had reported to police the third party or parties involved with arranging the 
money. And was told that they had been interviewed and the person who had owed him the 
money was now in a different country. 
When he referred his complaint to this service he said he had texts about the money which 
he showed to Lloyds. There is no record of those now and he didnt refer to this when he 
spoke to Lloyds in March 2021.
I appreciate the time that has passed since the payments. And that Mr T didnt find out about 
the CIFAS marker until 2020. Having said that he did know about the report of fraud in 2018 
linked to the individuals he names and says that some police action was taken. Hes known 
for some time that Lloyds may look at things again with a police report. But Im not clear 
whether that would have helped with our investigation in any event unless it showed that 
fraud by someone else has been established: an allegation by Mr T wouldnt likely be 
enough. 
Mr Ts had a reasonable time to provide evidence and I think it is fair now for me to make a 
decision on his complaint. The position is that I dont have anything to corroborate what he 
says. And the money that was sent had a reference that didnt tie up to any name hes given 
and was fraudulently obtained. He paid that money away from his account and so had the 
benefit of this. I find it most likely on the evidence that he reasonably knew that this money 
wasnt legitimately his.Lloyds says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr T received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether Lloyds was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Lloyds needs to have enough information to make a formal report to 
the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ts account of events, Im satisfied that Lloyds had sufficient evidence 
for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this view, Ive taken into account the 
following reasons:
- Mr T received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Lloyds at the 
time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Lloyds had grounds to believe that Mr T had used fraudulently obtained funds based 
on the evidence it had.
So, I know Im going to disappoint Mr T when I say that I wont be asking Lloyds to remove 
the CIFAS marker. I appreciate the difficulties Mr T describes about this marker for him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman