DRN-4090395
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse transfers totalling £19,800 which he
feels he was fraudulently tricked into authorising.
What happened
Mr H received a telephone call from someone pretending to be from Monzo. Mr H says the
caller told him they needed to secure his account by installing a firewall and transfer funds
to another account during that process. And Mr H agreed to grant remote access to the
caller on that basis. Mr H says he later realised hed been scammed when he noticed three
payments totalling £19,800 had been made to a cryptocurrency exchange from his account.
Mr H contacted Monzo about this and asked them to recover or reimburse the money to him.
But the money couldnt be recovered, and after a lengthy investigation, Monzo declined to
reimburse Mr H as they felt he hadnt taken reasonable steps to question the fraudster and
protect his account. Mr H wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Monzo looked at Mr Hs complaint. They accepted that Mr H had been the victim of fraud but
confirmed that they didnt feel they should fairly be expected to reimburse the £19,800 to
him. But Monzo did accept that Mr H hadnt received the best standard of service from them
while they were looking into his fraud claim, and they apologised to Mr H for this and made
payments totalling £100 to him for the trouble and upset this poor service may have caused.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Monzo could
reasonably have prevented Mr Hs loss and so didnt feel they should be instructed to
reimburse him. Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 March 2023 as follows:
Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of 
Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to
declare that Monzo have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such 
declarations would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make.
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we 
do take relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our 
remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has 
occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the circumstances and 
factors of a complaint into consideration.
Several detailed submissions have been provided to this service by both Mr H and 
Monzo. Id like to thank Mr H and Monzo for providing these submissions, and I 
confirm that Ive read and considered all information provided to this service by both 
parties. However, I wont be responding in similar detail to these submissions. 
Instead, Ill be focussing on what I feel are the key aspects of this complaint that help 
me arrive at what I feel is a fair decision  as per the remit of this service.
As such, if either Mr H or Monzo notes that I havent addressed a specific point that 
theyve raised, it shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point. 
Rather, it should be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it 
necessary to address it directly here to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution 
to this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Mr H was the victim of a scam here. Ive therefore considered 
whether I feel the transfers in question should have reasonably triggered an 
intervention from Monzo before being allowed to complete, and also whether I feel 
any potential intervention that Monzo may have made would have been likely to have 
been successful. That is, whether I feel Mr H would have recognised that he was in 
the process of being scammed because of Monzos intervention such that he then 
confirmed that the transfers shouldnt complete so that the attempted scam was 
prevented.
Considering the nature of these transfers, I do feel that they should reasonably have 
been recognised by Monzo has being potentially fraudulent and should therefore 
have triggered an intervention from them before the transfers were allowed to 
complete.
I say this because having reviewed the historical statements for Mr Hs account, Im 
satisfied that the transfers were clearly out of keeping with how Mr H had used his 
Monzo account up to that time. Indeed, Mr H had only made a few outbound 
transfers of over £1,000 during the entirety of the time hed held the account, with the 
largest prior outbound transfer being for £3,750, which took place almost a year 
before the three fraudulent transfers occurred.
Additionally, the transfers were also being made to a cryptocurrency exchange, and 
while this isnt necessarily an indicator of potentially fraudulent activity in and of itself, 
I do feel that, when taken in conjunction with the unusual and large nature of the 
transfers, it should have given Monzo further cause to suspect that something 
untoward might have been happening here.
So, being satisfied as I am that Monzo should have recognised that these transfers 
were potentially fraudulent, the question then becomes whether any potential 
intervention that Monzo might have made would have been successful.
This is a more difficult question to answer, largely because several aspects of what 
Mr H has said happened here appear problematic. For instance, Mr H explained to 
Monzo that the software he was persuaded to download onto his tablet  which 
allowed the fraudsters access to his Monzo account  was only present on his tablet 
for half an hour. But the fraudulent transfers which Mr H now seeks reimbursement of 
took place over the space of approximately 24 hours.
Its also notable from the recordings of the telephone call between Mr H and Monzo, 
that when Mr H first called Monzo to report the fraud he didnt explain that hed 
received a call from someone saying that they were from Monzo and that they 
needed to add a firewall to protect his account  as he later did  but instead explained that hed received a call from someone claiming to be from Monzo who 
said he needed to do a transaction of £50 to activate a credit card account. Although 
it is the case that in both versions of events Mr H explained that he was being 
contacted by someone claiming to be from Monzo who asked him to install software 
to enable that person to take control of his Monzo account online.
Upon consideration of these points, while there are certainly discrepancies with what 
Mr H has explained took place, I feel that the salient points of Mr Hs description of 
what happened have remained consistent. Importantly, these include that he was 
called from someone saying they were from Monzo.
Because of this, I feel that if Mozo had intervened and contacted Mr H before 
allowing the transfers to complete, its more likely than not that Mr H would have 
explained that it was Monzo themselves that had previously contacted him and said 
they needed to move money out of his account temporarily, and that the attempted 
fraud would then have been discovered and prevented.
Of course, the question remains as to how the scammers were able to make three 
transfers over a period of 24 hours when Mr H has explained that he uninstalled the 
software that granted the scammers control of his tablet shortly after the call ended.
But in his ongoing correspondence with this service, Mr H has admitted that he may 
not have uninstalled the software as quickly as hed previously said he had, and that 
he may only have uninstalled it after the third transfer took place. This seems like the 
most plausible sequence of events to me, and I feel it offers the best explanation as 
to why the scammers didnt make a fourth transfer, given that some money remained 
in Mr Hs account and which I feel its reasonable to expect the scammers would also 
have taken, if they could have.
But while I do feel that Monzo should bear some responsibility for what happened 
here because they failed to recognise that the transfers merited further checks and 
didnt intervene, it doesnt follow from this that I feel that Monzo should fairly or 
reasonably be considered as being fully responsible for Mr H being scammed. And 
this is because I also feel that Mr H reasonably could and should have done more 
himself to prevent this scam from taking place himself.
This includes that I feel Mr H should have been alerted to what was happening by the 
fact the scam caller new his PIN  which is something that no bank employee would 
recite to him  and that he was asked to install a program which allowed the caller to 
access and control his tablet. I also feel that Mr H should have checked the validity of 
the caller  for instance by checking the telephone number the scammer was calling 
from, which wasnt listed as a Monzo number  before proceeding.
All of which means that, while I dont think Monzo went far enough to prevent these 
transfers from completing and that an opportunity was missed to discuss the 
transfers with Mr H in more detail, I also think that Mr H should bear some liability for 
his loss because he hasnt acted reasonably in the circumstances of this case  for 
the reasons explained above. And it follows therefore that I feel the liability here 
should be shared equally between both parties.
As such, my provisional decision is that Monzo must reimburse to Mr Hs account 
50% of the total of the three fraudulent transfers  which equates to £9,900  along 
with interest on that £9,900 calculated at the rate of interest the amount would have 
earned, had it remained in Mr Hs account.I also dont feel that Monzos offer of £100 compensation to Mr H goes far enough in
recognition of the distress and inconvenience that Mr H has experienced here, in part
because of Monzos actions. And so, my provisional instructions will also include that 
Monzo must pay a further £150 to Mr H because of this.
In arriving at this further compensation amount, Ive considered the considerable 
amount of worry and distress Mr H has explained that hes incurred here. This 
includes understandable upset and anxiety which Mr H has explained he felt at the 
prospect of losing what hes described as being the majority part of his life savings. 
And I feel Mr Hs distress at what happened is evident in the tone and manner of his 
communication with Monzo  including in the recorded telephone calls between Mr H 
and Monzo that Ive listened to.
I can also confirm that, when arriving at this £150 further compensation amount, Ive 
also considered the mitigating factor that I feel Mr H should bear some responsibility 
for what happened here.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr H and Monzo the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to issue a final 
decision. Mr Hs authorised representative confirmed that Mr H accepted my provisional 
decision, whereas Monzo did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision here, upholding this complaint in        
Mr Hs favour on the same basis as detailed in my provisional decision. And I therefore 
confirm that I do uphold this complaint in Mr Hs favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Monzo must reimburse to Mr Hs Monzo account 50% of the total of the three fraudulent 
transfers  which equates to £9,900  along with interest on that £9,900 calculated at the 
rate of interest the amount would have earned, had it remained in Mr Hs Monzo account.
Monzo must also make a further payment of £150 to Mr Ms Monzo account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman