DRN-4096255
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lendable lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss Ss complaint is about a credit card supplied by Lendable. The account was opened in 
August 2021 with an initial credit limit of £500. The credit limit was increased to £800 in 
March 2022.
Miss S complains that Lendable lent irresponsibly to her.
Lendable didnt uphold the complaint so Miss S brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Lendable had completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks before opening the account and before approving the 
credit limit increase. The investigator didnt think that Lendable had acted unfairly.
Miss S didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending is set out 
on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss Ss complaint.
Lendable needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that Lendable shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to make sure Miss S could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable 
way. These checks could take into account a number of different things such as how much 
was being lent, the repayments amounts and Miss Ss income and expenditure and credit 
history.
Account opening and credit limit increase
Lendable reviewed the information provided by Miss S when she applied for the credit card. 
Miss S told Lendable that her net monthly income was £1,635. Lendable verified this using 
an industry standard income verification tool and verified Miss Ss income as £1,617.
Lendable also carried out credit checks. These showed that Miss S had four unsecured 
loans, two credit/store cards, a current account and two mail order accounts. The credit 
check showed that there were arrears on some of the accounts, although none of the arrears 
had occurred in the last 12 months.
Lendable carried out the same checks before the credit limit increase was approved.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lendable carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before opening the account and increasing the credit limit.
Ive gone on to consider whether Lendable acted fairly when it lent to Miss S. 
Ive reviewed the information. Theres nothing to suggest that the lending was likely to be 
unaffordable for Miss S. I say this because, although there were some accounts with arrears, 
the defaults were over 12 months old and therefore historic. So, I dont think these arrears 
would be a reason for Lendable not to lend. There was nothing in the information to suggest 
that Miss S was struggling financially at the time she applied for the card or at the time when 
the credit limit was increased. The affordability checks carried out by Lendable showed that 
Miss S had sufficient disposable income to afford the payments on the credit card. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to say that Lendable acted unfairly when it 
opened the account and increased the credit limit.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman