DRN-1825434
The complaint
Ms A and Mr N complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt extend their interest only 
mortgage, as it had agreed to do. They ask that it extends the term and pays compensation 
for the upset caused.
What happened
Ms A and Mr N took out a repayment mortgage with Barclays in 2003, to refinance their 
previous mortgage. They also have a current account linked to the mortgage, which Ill refer 
to as the MCA. Money borrowed under the MCA is secured on their house. The mortgage 
term was extended in 2010, and Mr N says Barclays agreed to extend it again in 2017 so 
that it would end in 2024. Barclays says the term expired in 2019 and it didnt agree a further 
extension.
Mr N says they cant repay the balance on the MCA account of about £82,000 at the 
moment. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said the 
available evidence didnt show that Barclays agreed to extend the term of the mortgage or 
the MCA to 2024. The investigator said it wasnt in Mr N and Ms As best interests to extend 
the term of the MCA on an interest only basis when they didnt have a strategy to repay it.
Ms A and Mr N didnt agree. Mr N said Barclays changed their monthly payments in mid-
2017 and this is evidence of its agreement to extend the term. He asked that Barclays 
provide a recording of the call in June 2017 when he says the extension was agreed. Mr N 
says they intend to make lump sum payments to reduce what they owe, so that theyre in a 
better position to repay the mortgage in 2024.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should say that I dont agree with Mr N that the letters, notices and statements 
Barclays sent are evidence that the term was extended. 
Barclays cant provide a recording of the call in June 2017 when Mr N says it agreed to 
extend the term of the mortgage. I understand Mr Ns frustration about this. But Id expect 
some written record  a letter confirming the new term end date or notes in Barclays system 
 if a change to the mortgage had been agreed.
Barclays notes show that Mr N contacted it in June 2017. The notes say Mr N contacted it 
because the direct debit payment it was taking was more than the regular mortgage 
payments. Barclays said this was due to a negative balance on the offset account increasing 
the interest due. Mr N also said the term shown on-line was 7 years and 1 month. Barclays 
confirmed the correct term was 1 year and 7 months. Barclays notes say Mr N disagreed 
with this, saying Barclays had previously agreed to extend the term.
Barclays then sent a letter to Mr N and Ms A that set out the wrong monthly payment. I 
agree that the monthly payment amounts set out in the June 2017 letter wouldnt have been 
enough to repay the mortgage by 2019. Barclays says this was an error. 
Its unfortunate that Barclays sent a letter with the wrong monthly payments. But this doesnt 
mean it agreed to extend the term. The letter says Barclays agreed to change the amount of 
the monthly payment due to Mr N and Ms As request. Theres no mention of changing the 
term. Barclays provided a copy of a letter dated 22 June 2017 which it sent to Mr N and 
Ms A saying the remaining term is 1 year and 7 months.
The annual mortgage statements each set out the remaining term. Ive seen copies of the 
statements between October 2010 to October 2018. These each state a remaining term 
which ends in January 2019. Barclays wrote to Mr N and Ms A in March 2018 about 
repaying the mortgage and MCA in January 2019. 
I think Barclays gave Mr N and Ms A clear information about when the mortgage term would 
expire. Based on the available evidence, I dont think it agreed to extend the term beyond 
January 2019.
What happens now?
Mr N and Ms As mortgage term has expired. The balance of the mortgage is small. But the 
balance in the MCA is about £82,000. The debt is secured on the property and the terms of 
the MCA say it has to be repaid at the same time as the mortgage. Mr N says they cant 
repay this at the moment, and has asked for a term extension. 
Mr N and Ms A are in a difficult position. They borrowed the money and they do have to 
repay it. Barclays notes say it asked Mr N and Ms A for information about their financial 
circumstances, which they declined to provide until their complaint is resolved. Mr N says 
theyll make lump sum payments to reduce the amount to be repaid in 2024. He intends to 
save up for this, from his income.
Barclays could extend the term of the mortgage  despite any concerns about affordability or 
the repayment strategy  if it would be in Mr N and Ms As best interests. 
Barclays says it doesnt consider its in a customers best interests to extend the term on an 
interest only basis if theres no repayment vehicle in place. It says Mr N and Ms A will find 
themselves in the same position in 2024. Its not clear that Barclays has looked carefully at 
Mr N and Ms As particular circumstances  as I think it should  when deciding if an 
extension would be in their interests. This is at least in part due to Mr N and Ms A deciding 
not to provide the information it asked for.
Mr N and Ms A didnt provide information to Barclays to agree a repayment plan or to 
evidence a repayment strategy. It seems likely though, from what Mr N has said about 
saving up to make payments from his income, that theyll struggle to repay the mortgage if it 
is extended.
Overall, I dont think its clearly in Mr N and Ms As best interests for Barclays to extend their 
interest-only mortgage. The evidence that is available suggests they wouldnt have means to 
repay it before, or at the end of the extended term. So I dont think its reasonable or fair to 
require Barclays to offer them a term extension.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and related Government restrictions, the regulator issued 
guidelines to lenders. Current guidelines say that lenders cant take or resume possession action until November 2020. This gives Mr N and Ms A some breathing space, to provide 
information to Barclays with the aim of agreeing an affordable repayment plan (if this is 
possible), to re-finance or seek independent financial advice about their options, or to offer 
their property for sale.
Mr N and Ms A should keep Barclays informed about the steps they are taking to repay the 
mortgage. Id expect Barclays to continue to treat them fairly. But, ultimately, if they arent 
able to repay the mortgage Barclays is entitled to take possession as a last resort. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman