DRN-1691871
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Sesame Limited mis-sold them mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage in 2008. Mr 
and Mrs W were each sold individual policies as they were having different levels of cover. 
Mrs Ws policy covered her for unemployment only. Mr Ws policy covered him for disability 
and unemployment.
Sesame partly upheld Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. It said that it shouldnt have sold Mr W 
disability cover, but that the unemployment cover (for both Mr and Mrs W) was not mis-sold. 
So it offered to refund the cost of the disability cover that Mr W paid. Mr and Mrs W werent 
happy with this offer and so referred their complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say they were told they had to take out PPI with the mortgage, or at least that 
was the impression they were given.
Sesame has provided quite a lot of paperwork from the time of the sale  most of it regarding 
the mortgage itself. I can tell that the mortgage interview was quite a long drawn out process 
and certainly Sesame did find out quite a lot of information about Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances at the time by carrying out a Fact Find. From the evidence Ive seen, there 
was clearly some discussion about the PPI policy and Mr and Mrs Ws needs.
Both the mortgage offer and the Key Facts document state: You do not need to buy any 
insurance through (lender) or (broker).
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ws recollection 
of events has faded. Overall, I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs W werent given a choice 
about buying the PPI. It seems to me that they probably decided to buy it, knowing that they 
didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Sesame advised Mr and Mrs W to buy the policies. Therefore, in recommending the PPI to 
them, they needed to ensure that it met their needs.Mrs Ws policy
I can see from the paperwork that Sesame asked Mrs W about her work sick pay. Because 
she told them she would have received more than six months full pay, it was agreed that 
she didnt have much of a need for disability cover. Therefore, Sesame advised Mrs W to 
take out a policy covering her for unemployment only.
Mrs W would have received some redundancy pay. Shed been in her job for less than five 
years at that point, so I dont think her redundancy pay would have been that substantial. 
Regardless of this, the PPI would have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay. It 
therefore would have provided a useful buffer whereby Mrs W wouldnt have had to worry 
about paying the mortgage (potentially for up to 12 months) whilst she looked for another 
job. Overall I think that it was reasonable of Sesame to recommend the PPI to Mrs W.
Mr Ws policy
Mr W hasnt mentioned what redundancy pay he might have received. But again, I consider 
that the unemployment part of the policy was suitable for Mr W because it would have paid 
out in addition to any redundancy pay.
Mr W was also sold disability cover that was designed to pay out if Mr W was unable to work 
due to accident or sickness. Mr W had a pre-existing medical condition. Because of this, 
Sesame has already offered to refund the premiums relating to this element of the cover, so 
I dont really need to make a finding on it. However, Mr W has said that the policy was 
useless and so I will just comment on that.
I can see that Mr W did discuss his health with Sesame at the time, but in relation to a life 
and critical illness policy rather than the PPI policy. The adviser has written: had mild 
epilepsy  he is on medication but has not had a fit for the last 10yrs.
Overall, I consider that the policy was mostly suitable for him. Mr W has told us that he never 
had any time off work due to his medical condition. So its unlikely that his epilepsy would 
ever be the reason that hed need to make a claim. And he could still have claimed for any 
other accident or sickness that caused him to have an extended period off work, subject to 
the remaining policy terms. And of course, the policy also provided unemployment cover.
Both policies
Sesame needed to provide Mr and Mrs W with sufficient information for them to be able to 
make an informed choice about whether or not the policies were right for them.
They were given statement of costs for each policy, so I think they would have known what 
theyd be paying for the PPI. 
Its possible that Sesame didnt provide as much information about the policies as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But, for the reasons mentioned above, 
Mr and Mrs W werent really affected by those things. As I consider that they had an interest 
in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused 
them to change their minds about buying the unemployment cover. I dont need to make a 
finding about Mr Ws disability cover as Sesame has already offered redress in relation to 
that, which I consider is an appropriate way of resolving the complaint.
My final decisionSesame Limiteds offer to refund the premiums paid by Mr W for disability cover, plus 
interest, is reasonable. I therefore do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Sesame Limited 
should pay the redress to Mr and Mrs W now, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman