DRN-3345751
The complaint
Mr L complains that Arrow Global Limited didnt apply a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) 
refund to the outstanding balance of a debt. 
What happened
In November 2015 Arrow purchased a debt in Mr Ls name from another business (I). Mr L 
went on to make a successful PPI complaint and was awarded £242.82. I says it contacted 
Arrow to reduce the outstanding balance on several occasions going back to 2017. Despite 
requests by I, Mr L says Arrow has failed to reduce the outstanding balance. 
Mr L referred his complaint about Arrow to us and it was passed to an investigator. They 
upheld Mr Ls complaint and recommended that Arrow reduce the outstanding balance by 
£242.82 and pay him £55 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Despite several follow 
up requests, the investigator didnt hear back from Arrow. As a result, Mr Ls complaint has 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint as they thought Arrow had failed to show it had 
applied the PPI refund to the outstanding balance. They thought it was more likely than not 
that the restructure of Mr Ls account required hadnt taken place. It should be reasonably 
clear whether the PPI refund was applied but Arrow hasnt sent evidence to show that. 
Its clear there has been a reasonable degree of back and forth between Arrow and I 
concerning this matter over the years. The contact notes indicate I first got in touch in 2017 
to request a balance reduction. Arrows contact notes show it received contact from I in 
September 2020 but I havent seen any evidence to support its claim the debt was then 
reduced by £242.82. 
As Arrow hasnt responded to the investigators view and I havent seen evidence to verify its 
claim it acted on Is instructions, Im going to uphold Mr Ls complaint. I can see the issue 
has cause some distress and inconvenience to Mr L, so Im also awarding £55 to reflect that. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Arrow Global Limited to settle as 
follows: 
- If it hasnt done so already, Arrow should reduce the outstanding balance of Mr Ls 
debt by £242.82
- Pay Mr L £55 for the distress and inconvenience caused
On settlement of the complaint, Arrow should provide Mr L with an up to date statement of 
his account showing the reduction in the outstanding balance.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman