DRN-3907944
The complaint
Mr H complains about the investment losses he says Suffolk Life Pensions Limited trading 
as Curtis Banks Pensions (Curtis Banks) caused, when an instruction to reduce the income 
payments he took from his self invested personal pension (SIPP) was carried out, but his 
investment manager (IM) wasnt made aware of the reduction and continued to sell assets to 
provide the original higher income  which simply built up in the cash reserve. He wants 
compensation for the growth he would have received had that excess income been invested 
in line with the rest of the funds.
What happened
Mr H has held his SIPP, which is administered by Curtis Banks, since 24 May 2018. He 
receives monthly income payments from the SIPP which are generally funded by transfers 
from his IM  who is responsible for the overall investment strategy of the plan. Mr H also 
has a separate financial adviser with responsibility for the plan.
In January 2020 Mr H asked Curtis Banks for his monthly income payments to be reduced to 
£4,000 from £6,500 with effect from April 2020. He subsequently requested they be reduced 
to £1,000 from October 2020. These payments to Mr H were reduced accordingly but Curtis 
Banks didnt make the IM aware, so it continued to transfer funds to the SIPP  which it said 
came from the disinvestment of assets, to cover the original income amount required. This 
meant that the cash reserve of the SIPP continued to accrue, and Mr H says the IM 
therefore had less funds available to invest on his behalf.  
On 11 December 2020 the IM asked Curtis Banks to amend the payments, but it established 
that Curtis Banks hadnt previously received the request. So it asked for £27,000 to be 
transferred to its portfolio from the plan (which was the surplus cash reserve) and decided to 
raise a complaint about the income payments. It said Mr H had requested his income to be 
reduced to £4,000 per month in April and £1,000 per month in October 2020, but while the 
payments had been reduced to Mr H, the IM had continued to fund the SIPP to ensure the 
original sum of £6,500 per month was met. The IM said this meant the money in the cash 
reserves could have been invested as it didnt need to disinvest assets to continue to cover 
the original level of income Mr H had been receiving. 
Curtis Banks accepted that an error had occurred and said it had corrected this and also 
sent the surplus cash that had been requested  at no cost to Mr H. But it didnt uphold the 
complaint about the investment loss. It said there had been a high cash balance in the SIPP 
during this period which was available to invest as required. 
It also said that no funds needed to be disinvested to provide the surplus cash, so it didnt 
think any financial loss had occurred.
Mr Hs IM said the cash balance in the SIPP had often been run at low levels during this time 
and noted that an income payment of £6,500 in July 2020 could only have been made if it 
disinvested some of his funds. It said it was for Curtis Banks to prove that it wouldnt have 
invested the missing funds in line with the rest of Mr Hs portfolio. 
Curtis Banks said there was no evidence that any of the SIPP funds had to be disinvested 
simply in order to facilitate Mr Hs income request  or that the cash balance would have 
been invested instead. It said it couldnt be held responsible for any perceived investment 
losses during this time. It said it had refunded the 2020 annual drawdown fee of £150 plus 
VAT back to the SIPP.  
But Mr H said he had lost the opportunity to invest over £31,500 which the IM calculated 
would have provided around £5,278 in growth. So he brought his complaint to us where one 
of our investigators looked into the matter. She said the complaint should be upheld. She 
looked at the income which had been required each month and compared this with the 
disinvestments and concluded that there were three months when funds could have 
remained invested. She said Curtis Banks should compare the value of the SIPP now with 
what it would have been without the disinvestments. 
Mr H accepted the recommendation but suggested an alternative redress formula which 
looked at the actual performance of the fund on a monthly basis to establish an average rate 
of return.
Curtis Banks didnt agree. It made the following points:
It doesnt expect to see large disinvestments over and above what is necessary to 
support income withdrawal. It didnt think the IM sold investments to support the 
monthly transfers alone. 
It cited examples of where the units of an investment were sold in far higher amounts 
than was required to cover the monthly income. It said in July 2020 for example, 712 
units of a share were sold when in fact only 144 were needed to meet the balance of 
income that was required. 
It gave a similar example for August 2020 and said that after that time there was a 
significant cash surplus which was beyond that required to support the income 
needed.
When the excess cash was refunded to the investment manager in December 2020 it 
wasnt immediately reinvested. Indeed, further sales took place the following month 
which increased the cash surplus. 
The account has generally operated with a large cash surplus which it thought didnt 
correlate with the timing of funds being requested. 
It was sorry for the error in not making the IM aware of the amendment to Mr Hs 
monthly fund request, but it didnt think it had caused any financial loss.   
The investigator remained of the view that some investments needed to be sold simply to 
pay for the higher level of income payments. And she thought her redress recommendation 
was fair because it put Mr H as close as possible to the position hed now be in without 
Curtis Banks error and without using the benefit of hindsight. But as both parties disagreed 
with the outcome and no resolution could be found the complaint was referred to an 
ombudsman  so it was passed to me to review.  
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I agreed with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld. 
But I thought a different redress formula should be used to establish the extent of Mr Hs 
loss. I made the following points in support of my findings:There was no dispute that Curtis Banks hadnt told the IM about Mr Hs request to 
reduce his income payments. Curtis Banks had apologised for its error, corrected the 
payments, and had refunded some fees.
But the issue of whether Mr H would have benefitted from investment growth on the 
amounts that had been disinvested in order to meet the (original) income payments 
remained. Mr Hs IM said it would have invested those surplus funds in line with an 
investment strategy while Curtis Banks said Mr H had maintained a relatively high 
cash surplus in the account during this time anyway  so hadnt suffered an 
investment loss.
It was difficult to conclude that the IM had disinvested the exact amount of assets 
each month to cover the required income  but there had often been other 
transactions during the month which might have been for other purposes. 
I thought the IMs role was to buy and sell assets across Mr Hs investment portfolio 
in order to maximise returns for him  not simply to provide the cash so that Curtis 
Banks could pay his monthly income. So I asked about visibility of the SIPP and 
discovered that the IM didnt have visibility of the SIPP outside of its own investment 
portfolio. 
So I thought the IM would, alongside managing the portfolio appropriately, have 
ensured at least £6,500 was made available in cash each month to meet Mr Hs 
income requirements. Therefore I concluded that if the IM had been aware that 
Mr Hs income needs had been reduced it would have encashed a proportionately 
lower amount of assets each month.
So I said Curtis Banks should reconstruct the value of Mr Hs SIPP on the basis that 
the IM reduced its disinvestments over the respective months by the percentage of 
the income reduction.
Responses to my provisional decision  
Curtis Banks said it accepted the provisional decision and would start the process of carrying 
out the redress calculation. 
But Mr H made several initial points in response to my provisional decision:
His claim for compensation related to the period that the overpayments of income 
were uninvested. So he didnt require compensation for any period beyond the date 
of 23 December 2020  which was when the funds were returned to the IMs 
account. He thought that where Id asked Curtis Banks to reconstruct the portfolio as 
at the date of any final decision it should have read reconstruct as of 
23 December 2020. 
His investments were providing an income of around £28,000 each year, meaning 
that no sales would have been required to meet the income from October 2020 
onwards. 
His portfolio maintained a variable cash balance and sales of investments didnt 
always match with simultaneous purchases. He thought it was clear that the IM 
simply couldnt invest what wasnt available for investment. He also noted that the 
stock market staged a huge recovery while his surplus funds remained in cash. 
Mr H was subsequently provided with the details of the calculation Curtis Banks had carried 
out to comply with my recommended redress. But he didnt accept it and said he wanted a 
final decision to take into account that Curtis Banks had worked out that the total redress 
was based on an overall investment growth rate of 22%, whereas an independent IM report 
he had requested showed that his portfolio had grown by just under 40% during that time  
which was nearly double the figure Curtis Banks had used.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered the further information Mr H has provided  and the points 
he has raised - I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So Ill confirm the 
reasons for reaching my decision as well as responding to Mr Hs subsequent submissions.
Curtis Banks error and Mr Hs complaint
In April and October 2020 Mr H requested that his monthly income from his SIPP was 
reduced accordingly. This was carried out, but his IM wasnt informed and as a result it 
continued to disinvest assets from his portfolio to cover the original income hed been 
receiving. Curtis Banks accepts that it made an error in not informing the IM. It subsequently 
transferred all of the cash surplus back to the investment portfolio and refunded its 
drawdown fee for the year as an apology.
But Mr Hs IM said that it wouldnt have disinvested the additional assets required to fund the 
higher income if it had been aware of the income reductions. It thought that Curtis Banks 
should compensate Mr H for the loss of investment growth suffered from disinvesting those 
additional assets and remaining in cash until at least 23 December 2020. So Ive looked at 
whether Mr H had, in my view, incurred such an investment loss.
Its difficult to conclude that the evidence Id been presented with showed the purpose of the 
various disinvestments that were made each month during this period. The IM didnt 
necessarily disinvest the exact number of shares or assets to cover the £6,500 of monthly 
income, but Im not persuaded that it would have done that in any case. The IMs role was to 
implement and monitor an investment strategy which gave Mr H the potential to maximise 
the value of his portfolio. This meant it would have had to buy and sell assets depending on 
the opportunities that arose each month as well as other market and external factors.  Of 
course, within this strategy the IM needed to ensure that the £6,500 income was available to 
be paid from Mr Hs SIPP, but that wasnt its only role.
So I dont think the IM traded simply to meet the monthly income requirement and therefore 
its difficult to decide exactly what it would have done each month to satisfy both of these 
different requirements  the income and the growth of the portfolio, if it had known that the 
income requirement was lower. Curtis Bank has provided examples of months when the IM 
sold far more units of an asset than was required to cover the income, and our investigator 
concluded that there were only three months when the funds could have remained invested. 
What should have happened?
I asked the SIPP provider to confirm which parties had visibility of Mr Hs SIPP. It confirmed 
that, although Mr H and his financial adviser did have visibility, the IM didnt. So I considered 
whether Mr H ought to have discussed the situation of his overall SIPP with the IM, but Im 
not persuaded that would have been necessary. 
The IM would have been focused on the investment portfolio strategy and disinvesting 
assets to provide the necessary income  so I dont think it needed to know the situation with 
the overall SIPP. 
That meant that the IM wasnt aware of the financial position of the overall SIPP and 
therefore, as the one party involved that hadnt been made aware of Mr Hs reduced income requests, it wasnt aware of the build up of the cash reserve. So I think its reasonable to 
assume that the IM would simply have continued to provide at least £6,500 of income for 
Mr H unless it was told otherwise. But I think that if it had been aware of the reduction in 
income, its reasonable to conclude that the IM would have reduced its overall 
disinvestments proportionately. I think it would have disinvested fewer assets in line with the 
percentage reduction in Mr Hs required income.
In my provisional decision I said that it wasnt possible to know exactly what would have 
been disinvested each month, and that I hadnt been provided with an agreed strategy 
whereby the IM disinvested certain assets in order to provide a specific level of funds for the 
income. So I proposed a redress solution which simply looked at the actual percentage 
reduction in income and compared this with a similar reduction in disinvestments. 
But Mr H wasnt happy with the figure Curtis Banks arrived at following its calculation, as he 
said it represented a 22% change in investment performance whereas the IM provided 
evidence to show the portfolio increased by around double that during the period in question. 
But the investment report represents a picture of the actual performance of Mr Hs portfolio 
from 1 April to 23 December 2020, whereas I have to consider the position he would have 
been had Curtis Banks error not occurred.  
As I said in previously this wasnt an exact science, and it is impossible to know what would 
have been disinvested had the IM been made aware of the reduced income requirements at 
the various times. So I think the fairest resolution is simply to reconstruct the portfolio had 
the disinvestment been reduced on the same percentage basis as the income was reduced 
 but taken across all the disinvested assets in the same proportions. 
Mr H also questioned my use of the date of any final decision for the calculation date as he 
said the funds were paid back into the investment portfolio on 23 December 2020  which 
was therefore the extent of his loss. Im pleased to say that I agree with Mr H about the date 
to which the extent of his loss extends. But my aim is to put Mr H as close to the position he 
would be in now but for the error that Curtis Banks made, so Ive simply ensured any loss as 
of 23 December 2020 is brought up to date. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in had his IM been advised of the reduction in his required income and the 
disinvested funds that werent required had remained invested.
What must Curtis Banks do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Curtis Banks must:
Reconstruct the value of Mr H's SIPP, as at the date of any final decision, on the basis that 
the IM reduced its disinvestments over the respective months by the percentage of the 
income reduction. The excess income was £2,500 for April to September and £5,500 from 
October to December 2020.
So as an example, if the total disinvestment was say £25,000 in April 2020, that
disinvestment should be notionally reduced by 38% (the percentage reduction from £6,500
to £4,000). The SIPP value should be reconstructed on the basis that the notional reduction
in the disinvestments occurred in the same proportion across the same disinvested assets.
If there is a loss demonstrated by the notional reconstruction: Curtis Banks should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Curtis Banks is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Suffolk Life Pensions 
Limited trading as Curtis Banks Pensions.
My decision is that Suffolk Life Pensions Limited trading as Curtis Banks Pensions should 
pay the amount calculated as set out above and should provide details of its calculation to 
Mr H in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman