DRN-3735567
The complaint
Miss M complains that Payment Protection Services Ltd trading as Payment Protection 
Scotland (PPS ) havent pursued her mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
Miss M said shed instructed PPS to act on her behalf to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim with 
her lender Ill call R. Miss M said PPS told her the claim had been accepted. In September 
2021, PPS told her that R was delaying the outcome and that they didnt have a date for 
the claim being settled. But reassured Miss M that they were actively pursuing the claim. 
Miss M said in January 2022 PPS told  her to contact R herself. Miss M complained to PPS 
as she said they werent providing their claims service.
 
 PPS didnt respond to Miss M so shes brought her complaint to us. 
PPS didnt respond to our requests for information. Our investigator said PPS hadnt shown 
they were providing the services Miss M had instructed them to carry out. And hadnt 
updated her as they should have. He said they should take the necessary action to get   
Miss M an outcome for her mis-sold PPI claim. He also said they should compensate Miss M 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused. 
PPS said theyd found Miss Ms claim details but didnt provide any other response to our 
investigators outcome. Miss Ms complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its unfortunate that PPS have only confirmed theyd a claim from Miss M and havent 
provided any further information about their involvement with Miss Ms mis-sold PPI claim. 
They havent provided for example a letter of authority (LoA) signed by Miss M instructing 
them to act on her behalf, nor any case notes, call recordings or lender responses. Where 
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities - in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened or 
not considering the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. For some lenders the submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-
sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim.  
But for others a formal complaint with supporting information was required. Any claim received 
after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless there 
were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
Miss Ms main dispute is that shed instructed PPS to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim with her 
lender, R. But said despite being told her claim had been accepted she hasnt been told 
what redress shed receive or when shed receive it. And shed expected PPS in providing 
their claims service to have looked to get R to provide an outcome to her claim.
As PPS havent responded to our requests for information except to say theyd found      
Miss Ms claim with then. I havent seen any evidence that shows PPS sent a LoA or a letter 
of complaint about Miss M having been mis-sold PPI to her lenders before the August 2019 
deadline. Neither has PPS provided any responses form R that showed Miss Ms claim had 
been accepted or that R was the cause of the delay in Miss M getting an outcome to her 
claim. If a claim was made about mis-sold PPI Id expect to see responses from lenders that 
showed whether theyd found PPI or not, or asking for further information to identify that  
Miss M had an account with them, or to ask for further information to support Miss Ms claim 
the PPI had been mis-sold. 
So, I dont know if or when PPS followed Miss Ms instructions to pursue a mis-sold PPI 
claim on her behalf. I havent seen any responses from R to PPS or seen what the content 
of those responses might have been. I also havent seen any evidence that PPS kept Miss M 
updated about her claim apart from a text message in September 2021 that said the cause 
of the delay was due to R. As the text message was sent over two years after the deadline 
for making such claims had passed, I cant say PPS have complied with the relevant 
guidance.
 CMCOB 6.1.4 says:
The firm must pass on to the customer, (a) any information received from a third party which 
is addressed to, or meant for, the attention of that customer; and (b) any request received by 
the firm from a third party for the supply of information by the customer that the firm does not 
already hold.
And that this should be done within 10 business days and in a durable medium.
CMCOB 6.1.9 says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least 
once every six months, in a durable medium.
CMCOB 6.1.10
 
(1) If, during the period to which the report relates, the firm has not sent any notifications to 
the customer under CMCOB 6.1.5R, the update should indicate why, to the best of 
the firms knowledge, there have been no material developments.
(2) The firm should give updates under CMCOB 6.1.9R until such time as the claim is finally 
determined or settled, or is withdrawn or discontinued.
As Miss Ms claim hasnt yet been finally determined Id expect PPS to continue to provide their 
claims service until it is.
I cant know or speculate whether Miss Ms mis-sold PPI claim will be successful or not as 
there are several factors that a lender needs to consider. But I would have expected PPS to 
pursue R until the outcome is finally determined and update Miss M when the 
determination was known. As I dont think PPS have kept Miss M as informed as they should 
have, I think its fair and reasonable for PPS to pay Miss M £150 for the inconvenience this 
has caused.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Payment Protection Services Ltd trading as Payment 
Protection Scotland to:
update Miss M as to the final determination of her claim; and
pay Miss M £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by their poor customer 
service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman