DRN-4089342
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by JFP Financial Services Ltd (JFP) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr B also says that a transfer of a personal pension he had was not suitable for him. 
What happened
I understand Mr B became a member of his employers DB scheme in 1993, when he started 
this employment. The scheme closed to benefit accrual in May 2002. Mr B left this employer 
in 2008. 
In March 2010 Mr B was contacted by the DB scheme. It explained that it was underfunded, 
and it could, at present, pay a transfer value of £11,818 which represented 60.5% of the full 
transfer value. However, the DB scheme also said it could pay a cash incentive of £10,107 
which could be added to the transfer value or taken as cash. This cash incentive looks to be 
the remainder of the full transfer value, rather than an extra entitlement for Mr B. It offered 
£250 towards the cost of the advice. 
Mr B approached JFP to get advice about his pension and retirement needs. JFP completed 
a fact find in April 2010. The information in this was very brief, but it does show that: 
Mr B was aged 37 and married with two dependent children
He was unemployed, and in receipt of incapacity benefit, I understand this was due 
to an injury. 
Mr B and his wife were living in rented accommodation
Mr and Mrs B had no savings or investments, and no other pension provision was 
recorded. 
Mr B did have another personal pension that he had used to contract out of the state 
earnings related pension scheme (SERPS). Mr B received advice about this pension just 
after the advice about the DB scheme and its part of this complaint. 
JFP also carried out an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it said was balanced or 
6 on a scale of 1 to 10. 
On 26 April 2010, JFP issued a suitability report. This suitability report said that Mr B was 
seeking advice because he wanted to:
Review the offer made by the DB scheme. 
Take the Cash Sum offered and so transfer to another provider
Ensure his pension fund was invested within an actively managed portfolio of assets 
tailored to his attitude to risk. 
JFP said that in the suitability report that it didnt recommend that Mr B transfer his DB 
pension benefits. But it also said that he had decided to do this anyway, principally to secure 
the cash incentive. 
JFP then went on to advise Mr B about the transfer of the DB scheme and the personal 
pension he had. This was on the basis the transfer decision was made by Mr B alone, and 
JFP was giving advice on the investments within the new personal pension that Mr B wanted 
to start. 
The DB transfer proceeded, and Mr B transferred around £10,000 into a new personal 
pension with a third party. He invested in one of this providers managed funds which JFP 
said matched his attitude to risk. He also took the cash incentive of around £10,000.  
And on 18 June 2010, JFP advised Mr B to transfer his existing personal pension benefits 
into the new personal pension. The suitability report said the reasons for this were that Mr B 
wanted to consider the consolidation of his pension benefits into one product (his new 
pension) and ensure the funds used matched his attitude to risk. It noted that his existing 
pension invested in a with profits fund that had a lower risk and so was not the best fit for his 
current attitude to risk. 
This transfer also proceeded, and Mr B invested around a further £10,000 in the new 
personal pension. This was placed in the same fund as the previous DB transfer. 
Mr B complained in 2021 to JFP about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that the 
recommendation to transfer his DB scheme benefits, and the personal pension, werent 
suitable for him. He said the advice was negligent and he has suffered a loss due to it. 
JFP didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said that the new pension was a standard product that 
used a fund that was suitable for Mr Bs attitude to risk. It said that Mr B understood the 
advice and reasonable information was provided about it. It felt that it had always acted in Mr 
Bs best interests. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. And at this point JFP said that it didnt think the 
Financial Ombudsman Service should consider Mr Bs complaint as it was brought too late.  
An Investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that JFP pay compensation. He 
firstly said that the complaint hadnt been brought too late. He then went on to say the 
transfer process was not robust and the information provided to Mr B was not complete. So, 
he wasnt persuaded that it was correct to say that Mr B was an insistent customer.
He agreed that transferring the DB scheme benefits wasnt in Mr Bs best interests as it was 
likely that he would receive lower retirement benefits due to the transfer. 
Our Investigator also thought the transfer of the personal pension was unsuitable for Mr B. 
He essentially said that Mr B could have been advised to transfer his funds within his 
existing personal pension rather than transfer. So, he didnt need to incur the costs of the 
transfer. 
JFP disagreed, saying:
Mr Bs risk profile was correctly assessed, and he had some investment experience 
in his personal pension that he used to contract out of SERPS. 
Mr B had made his decision to transfer before he approached JFP, and he was 
influenced by the enticement he was offered by the DB scheme. This is demonstrated by the fact that he indicated he already had a use for the funds the DB 
scheme would provide. 
As it was advising on the DB scheme transfer it didnt need to provide a full TVAS. 
It felt that the advice it gave not to transfer was persuasive and the warnings were 
clear. Despite this Mr B decided to transfer anyway. 
It also thought the personal pension transfer was suitable for Mr B on the basis that he could 
actively manage the funds in a diverse portfolio. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JFP's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, JFP should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
The jurisdiction of this complaint
JFP initially thought that this Service shouldnt consider this complaint as it has been brought 
too late. Our Investigator considered this issue but didnt think that Mr B had been, or ought to have been, aware that he could complaint any sooner than he did. This meant the 
complaint wasnt brought outside of timeframes specified in the rules the Financial 
Ombudsman works under. So, he didnt think the complaint was brought to late. 
No party to the complaint has raised any issues about this part of what the Investigator said. 
So, I wont comment in detail about this. But I will say that I dont think that the complaint is 
outside of the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction, for the same reasons the 
Investigator said. Ive gone on to consider the merits of the complaint.  
Was Mr B an insistent customer
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of
insistent clients. But there were Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules in the 
regulators Handbook which required JFP to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required JFP to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, JFPs recommendation had to be 
clear and Mr B had to have understood the consequences of going against the 
recommendation.
JFPs role was to find out what Mr Bs wants and needs were, and why he wanted to transfer 
his pension. Its role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mr B wanted. It had to act in his best 
interests. And I dont think it did this here. 
While JFPs suitability letter to Mr B did set out, in places, that its recommendation for him 
was not to proceed with the transfer, I think this was seriously undermined by the other 
information contained in the letter and the overall advice he was given. 
I dont think the wording and emphasis of the information Mr B was given with the suitability 
letter was fair to Mr B or in his best interests. I say that because I dont think it was in Mr Bs 
best interests to go against JFPs recommendation. But the documents he was sent, made it 
very easy for him to do so.
At the start of the suitability report the Summary of Recommendations had three bullet 
points which said that, in summary: 
 it would be my recommendation that you do not transfer your deferred pension benefits 
away from the (DB scheme) in favour of receiving a cash incentive 
  despite this advice you have told me that I am to arrange for you the transfer of your 
deferred benefits from the DB scheme 
 it would be my recommendation that you transfer your deferred benefits within the (DB 
scheme) to a (personal pension)    
In a very short space of time, and with almost no explanation, JFP has recommended that 
Mr B transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension. And this would have been one of the 
very first things that Mr B saw. 
At a later point the suitability letter said that:
*** Warning *** 
It is my primary recommendation that you leave these benefits invested, within the Scheme, 
to ensure you maintain the guaranteed pension income/benefits in retirement. A guaranteed 
pension income is a valuable benefit and should not be given up without consideration.
However, the suitability letter went on to say that:However, against my advice, you have confirmed you wish to take the Cash Lump Sum and 
transfer the remaining transfer value to (sic) into a new pension plan. At this point in time you 
view the cash lump sum as being of greater importance than the cash lump sum at 
retirement. 
Again, I think this information was conflicting. 
In this situation Id expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the
transfer was not in Mr Bs best interests. But the information on the suitability letter about this 
was limited to the loss of the guaranteed pension and the return required to match the 
benefits. It wasnt demonstrated what income in retirement Mr B was likely to achieve by 
transferring. Other risks involved in the transfer  for example the risk of funds running out in 
drawdown  werent considered either.
JFP didnt fully calculate a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) and so it didnt follow the 
advice process it should have when giving advice. I think its reasonable to say that when a 
consumer has expressed a preference for a transfer, and for the reasons Mr B had, then 
JFP should have analysed as far as it could, what the affect would be on Mr Bs retirement. I 
dont think it did this here. There is almost no analysis, or information about Mr Bs individual 
circumstances, either at the time or at his proposed retirement date. 
Its hard to say that JFPs advice was correct, and in Mr Bs best interests, when it hasnt 
done what it should have done. I dont think its unreasonable to say that JFP seems to have 
accepted what Mr B wanted with very little challenge. Despite it being very clear that his 
income at retirement would probably be much reduced due this. 
I think it ought to have been clear to JFP that Mr B had little knowledge or experience of 
financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. I say this 
because whilst Mr B did have another personal pension (that was used to transfer out of 
SERPS) there was no indication that he had actively monitored the investment of this. It 
seemed to have simply been invested in a with-profits fund. So, I dont think he was an 
experienced investor.  
And Mr B was in a vulnerable situation at the time of advice. He was not working and was 
currently receiving benefits due to an injury. The cash on offer through the DB scheme would 
have seemed very attractive to him because of this. 
I think this shouldve put JFP on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters 
through the insistent client route. But JFP seemed to accept that Mr B wanted to transfer 
without any significant degree of questioning. 
It is clear that Mr B, understandably, had some idea of what he wanted to use the money for. 
But there is no statement about this in his own words, which whilst not a requirement, would 
have been good practice at the time. 
The main driver of the transfer was the cash incentive that the trustees of the DB scheme 
was providing to facilitate the transfer. But this was only the remainder of the transfer value 
that Mr B was entitled to. It wasnt a generous offer as the DB scheme described it. And 
JFP should have been clear that this was the case. 
While JFP acknowledged the transfer of Mr Bs benefits wasnt suitable, there were enough 
failings in the advice process which mean its reasonable to say he wasnt fully informed 
about his position. And I think its more likely than not that the provision of full information 
and better analysis wouldve influenced his decision making.On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the
process JFP followed meant that Mr B could truly be regarded as an insistent client. JFPs 
communications werent clear or fair. It didnt act in Mr Bs best interests. And it failed to act 
with due care and skill.
If JFP had followed a more appropriate insistent client process, completing a full analysis of 
the transfer detailing all of the reasons why it might not be suitable and allowing Mr B the 
time to consider that, I dont think Mr B wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transfer.
JFP has already said that Mr B shouldnt have transferred. But Ive also looked at the 
suitability of the transfer below. Ive done this as I need to be able to say that Mr B wouldnt 
have transferred if he had been given correct advice. 
Financial viability 
JFP said that it didnt carry out a full transfer value analysis, even though this was required 
by the regulator, that would show how much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by 
each year in order to provide the same benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield). This is 
because it says that it only advised Mr B on the investment of his new personal pension. 
But I dont agree with this. Even if the advice was not to transfer this is still clearly advice 
about the transfer itself. And so JFP should have properly fulfilled its regulatory 
responsibilities to produce a TVAS. Its hard to see how JFP could have given any kind of 
recommendation without doing the required analysis and providing this to Mr B. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst JFP wasnt required to refer to these 
rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of 
what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was 
given in this case. 
Mr B was 37 at the time of the advice and it was assumed that he would retire at his age 65. 
Whilst JFP didnt make a full critical yield analysis it estimated that Mr B would need a fund 
of around £222,111 at retirement to provide the benefits he was giving up. It said that the 
fund he was transferring would need to grow by 11.67% to reach this if he took the cash 
incentive or 9.14% if he transferred the full amount. 
This compares with the discount rate of 6.9% per year for 27 years to retirement in this case. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr B's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
Im not entirely persuaded that Mr Bs attitude to risk was as high as balanced. That said 
this was a pension product with a very long time to invest. It wouldnt necessarily be wrong 
for Mr B to take a reasonable amount of risk even without prior investment experience. So, 
whilst I have concerns about the risk assessment, I dont necessarily disagree with it. 
But I think Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than the 
occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk. For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Bs best interests. And I 
recognise that JFP did say this, even though it should have gone further. Of course, financial 
viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
Ive considered whether with was the case here for completeness.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr B required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax free cash earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. I also cant see 
evidence that Mr B had a strong need for variable income throughout his retirement. Both of 
these dont seem to have been discussed. 
So, Im satisfied Mr B was best placed to meet his income needs in retirement through the 
DB scheme at 65. Under the DB scheme, Mr B was entitled to an annual income of 
£7,745.03 from the scheme at 65, there was very little chance of him improving of this by the 
transfer. Again, I note that JFP recognised this. 
Furthermore, Mr B was only 37 at the time of the advice and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr B had 27 years before he could think about 
accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring 
out of the DB scheme. If Mr B later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could 
have done so closer to retirement. This should have been emphasised to Mr B but I dont 
think it was. 
It seems the main reason that Mr B wanted to transfer was to access the cash incentive that 
was available to him. And whilst JFP did advise Mr B not to transfer, I cant see that it 
explored any other alternatives Mr B may have had to meet this aim. I appreciate these may 
not have been easy to do, given his employment status at the time. But I would have 
expected a detailed analysis of this, alongside the effect of the advice to transfer the DB 
scheme would have on Mr Bs retirement income. Again, JFP didnt do this. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension mightve been an attractive feature to Mr B. As far as I can see 
though, death benefits werent discussed at all. 
And there is no mention of the death benefits attached to the DB scheme. Mr B was married 
with children and so the spouses and dependents pension provided by the DB scheme 
wouldve been useful to his dependents if Mr B predeceased them. I dont think JFP made 
the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr B. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was 
not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Bs aim for control over how his pension was invested was overstated. Mr B was 
not an experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to 
be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr B  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.This transfer came about because the DB scheme wrote to Mr B to say that it was 
underfunded. That said, the scheme did have a plan in place to rectify this and there seems 
to be no reason why it wouldnt have been able to improve the funding position. So, overall, I 
dont think the funding of his employers DB scheme was such that Mr B should have 
genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. If he was. 
Furthermore, if the scheme did end up moving to the PPF, I think JFP should have explained 
that this was not as concerning as Mr B thought. Mr B was still unlikely to match, let alone 
exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred out to a personal 
pension. JFP should have given a much greater emphasis to this at the time of sale. I can 
only see a brief mention of the PPF and JFP should have done much more here. 
Suitability of investments
JFP recommended that Mr B invest in the new pension providers managed fund. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mr B, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr B would have remained in the DB scheme and so the 
investments in this fund wouldnt have arisen if JFP had properly advised Mr B. 
Transfer of the personal pension
Mr B also transferred a personal pension a short time after he was given advice about the 
DB scheme. This advice was given on the basis that he wanted to consolidate his pension 
arrangements and better monitor and control the investments. 
But given that I dont think that Mr B should have gone ahead with the DB transfer, I dont 
think this was a good enough reason in itself. And I think Mr B could have found suitable 
funds within his existing personal pension if he really did want to change how it invested. 
Even though Im not persuaded that he did want control of his pension benefits. And Mr B 
seems to have invested the transfer in a what looks to be a fairly standard managed fund 
and there seems to be no intention of any kind of active management of this going forward 
So, I dont think he needed to incur the advice costs that he did. And so, I dont think this 
recommendation was suitable for Mr B. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and the cash lump sum on offer would have sounded 
like attractive features to Mr B. But JFP wasnt there to just transact what Mr B might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr B needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the insistent client process was robust. And whilst the advice was not 
to transfer, I dont think Mr B was likely to have fully understood the downsides of 
transferring. So, I dont think JFP should have considered Mr B to be an insistent customer. 
And I think if JFP had given Mr B more comprehensive advice, in particular if it provide more 
detail about what he was giving up, and how this would affect his retirement, he wouldnt 
have transferred either his DB scheme or his personal pension to a new personal pension. 
In light of the above, I think JFP should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr B as far as possible in the position he would be in 
now if JFP had given him suitable advice. I think Mr B would have remained in the DB 
scheme. I also think he would have retained his existing personal pension arrangements but 
he could have switched funds within this to better meet his circumstances.  
What should JFP do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, JFP must determine the combined fair value of his transferred 
pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual value is greater 
than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation. 
fair value  step one
If Mr B had been given suitable advice, I think he would have remained in the DB scheme. 
JFP must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr B lost as a result of transferring out 
of his DB scheme in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension 
transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators 
handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
For clarity, Mr B has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, the 
calculation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of the decision.
fair value  step two
JFP must use the benchmark shown below to determine the fair value of Mr Bs personal 
pension if suitable advice had been given. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Current
Value of
Mr Bs 
personal 
pension 
that was 
transferredStill exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
transferDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 90 days 
of the JFP 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from thepoint in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out
of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if JFP totals all those
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, JFP should:
always calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment their 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts JFPs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, JFP may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that Mr B would otherwise pay on income from their pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted Capital growth and its reasonable to assume he was up to a medium 
risk investor, but no more than this.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take some risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that Mr B would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index 
tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
JFP pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JFP Financial Services 
Ltd to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
JFP Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require JFP 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
JFP Financial Services Ltd pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JFP Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman