DRN-3288464
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to prevent it 
being the victim of an email invoice interception scam.
G is represented in this complaint by Mr P, the companys director, and a legal 
representative. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to G throughout my decision.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief summary here.
In February 2019 G sadly fell victim to an email interception scam and was tricked into 
transferring money from its account with Barclays to two accounts held with the recipient 
bank, Lloyds. Some of the funds were recovered and returned, but a loss of around 
£311,000 remains.
Following its initial investigation, Barclays concluded that it had done all it could to assist G 
in trying to recover its losses. Unfortunately, it could only recover around £4,000, which was 
returned. However, it agreed that the service it had provided wasnt up to standard. It 
credited Gs account with £300 by way of an apology and to recognise the length of time the 
matter took to resolve.
G referred the complaint to our service. It believes Barclays and Lloyds are jointly 
responsible. A linked complaint about the actions of Lloyds is being considered under a 
different complaint reference. G would like a refund of the outstanding loss; an interest 
award to be made for the time its been without the funds; fair compensation for the stress 
and worry caused; and reimbursement of the legal costs that have been incurred in bringing 
this complaint.
One of our Investigators considered, in isolation, Gs complaint against Barclays. She 
recommended that the complaint should be upheld, and Barclays should pay Gs full 
outstanding loss. She made no interest award and said the £300 award which had already 
been paid by Barclays for Gs stress and worry was fair. Barclays accepted it could have 
done more, but it also argued that G itself should've done more. It made an offer to refund 
half of Gs loss. G did not accept Barclays offer. It maintained it was entitled to a full refund 
of the sum lost as a result of fraud, and Barclays should pay this and seek to get a 
contribution as appropriate from Lloyds. During the time our Investigator was looking into 
things, a further sum of around £134,000 of recovered funds was returned to G.
Both of Gs complaints were passed to another Investigator. She asked Barclays whether its 
offer to pay half the loss still stands. Barclays clarified its offer was for half the total loss, so 
accounting for the recovered funds this would now be around £157,000, not the £225,000 it 
had previously offered. Our Investigator reinvestigated Gs complaint. In short, she found 
that Barclays could have only prevented part of Gs loss (£250,000) and that this sum (less 
any recovered funds) should be reduced by 50% for Gs contributory negligence. Ultimately, 
she concluded that Barclays offer was more than fair, and she couldnt ask it to do anymore 
to resolve Gs complaint. She also didnt uphold Gs complaint against Lloyds.
G didnt agree, so the matter was reviewed by an Ombudsman colleague who has issued 
two provisional decisions in relation to this complaint, along with two separate provisional 
decisions in relation to Gs complaint against Lloyds.
His most recent findings about Gs complaint against Barclays are set out in his provisional 
decision dated 15 February 2022, in which he explained that he was intending on partially 
upholding Gs complaint against Barclays. The approach he adopted was to arrive at Gs 
total preventable loss (incorporating both Barclays and Lloyds failures) of just over 
£417,000; apply a reduction to that figure of 50% in respect of Gs contributory negligence 
giving just under £209,000; deduct the total monies Lloyds were able to retrieve which was 
around £138,000; and award the balance of around £70,000 against Barclays. He did not 
intend on making any award against Lloyds.
Barclays agreed with the Ombudsmans provisional decision and had no further points to 
add. G didnt agree. It made further detailed submissions. The complaint was passed to me 
to determine. I issued my provisional decision on 16 June 2023. I said: 
Firstly, I appreciate G would really like to know, and has on several occasions asked for an 
explanation of why and how different case handlers have come to different outcomes. I can 
absolutely see how this can have an impact on its confidence in our services function. 
Having said that, the purpose of sharing preliminary assessments, before progressing to a 
final decision, is to help refine the issues by enabling the parties to have their say and this 
helps our service arrive at a fair and reasonable decision. The issues raised in this case are 
complex by nature. They can be approached from multiple, and sometimes competing 
perspectives. Understandably of all the answers given, G agrees with the answer that is 
most favourable to its position. But Im not bound by the outcomes reached by our 
Investigators, nor those that my colleague Ombudsman indicated he was minded to reach in 
his provisional decisions. Ultimately, Im required to review the facts of a case and reach my 
own conclusion, independently. And the purpose of my decision is to explain my 
determination and why I consider it to be a fair and reasonable outcome  not explain why 
my colleagues may have come to different conclusions.
Of course, in reaching my decision I am required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. But 
ultimately my role as an Ombudsman is to determine a complaint by reference to what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
G has made lengthy and detailed submissions in support of its complaints. Ive reviewed all 
the material it has submitted. But Im not going to address every single point raised here. 
Instead, my intended decision will concentrate on what I think are the key issues. Id like to 
assure G no discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Ill start by addressing Gs request for its complaints against Barclays and Lloyds to be 
considered together and setting out the approach I intend on taking.Our services ability to investigate complaints together and apportion the burden of redress 
between respondents is the subject of no specific rule and only limited guidance, which can 
be found in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook at DISP 3.5.3G and 
DISP 3.6.3G, which say:
DISP 3.5.3G. Where two or more complaints from one complainant relate to connected 
circumstances, the Ombudsman may investigate them together, but will issue separate 
provisional assessments and determinations in respect of each respondent.
DISP 3.6.3G. Where a complainant makes complaints against more than one respondent in 
respect of connected circumstances, the Ombudsman may determine that the respondents 
must contribute towards the overall award in the proportion that the Ombudsman considers 
appropriate.
Here as the circumstances of Gs complaint against Barclays are so closely linked 
(connected) with its complaint against Lloyds Im minded to agree with G that a fair 
approach would be to look into these complaints together; but I should then make separate 
decisions.
I understand G feels the Financial Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction over both 
respondents and could, if it chooses, decide to treat the complaints as a single merged 
complaint, so that the respondents are treated as a single entity. I note G also suggests that 
I issue a determination concerning both respondents acts or omissions and make a joint 
and severable finding against both banks, and it would then be for the respondents to 
choose to pay half of the award each, alternatively one of them can pay the entire award and 
claim back from the other an appropriate amount. But G hasnt persuaded me, nor can I see 
any reasonable or proper basis for me to depart from the guidance found in DISP 3.5.3G 
and DISP 3.6.3G. That is because normally firms are only responsible for their own acts and 
omissions, and under the rules which govern this service a complaint must be framed by the 
complainant against a firm, based on its own acts and omissions, and decided by an 
Ombudsman accordingly. Whilst there are some exceptions to that rule, for example where a 
firm accepts responsibility for an agent, appointed representative, or predecessor firm, none 
of these apply between the banks involved in these two linked complaints, which are 
separate organisations answerable only for their own acts and omissions. So, each bank is 
entitled to receive a decision concerning the complaint that has been made against it and I 
dont consider it would be appropriate, or even open to me, to deal with them in the way G 
suggests.
The facts
I can see on several occasions G has commented that the sequence of events has not been 
fully understood. In fact in response to the provisional decision issued by my colleague 
Ombudsman G says that hes made an error in calculating the initial sum that was lost. 
G said, whilst four payments of £50,000 (totalling £200,000) were attempted, only £100,000 
was actually sent to the account at Lloyds because the third and fourth payments of £50,000 
were reversed as a result of alerts by Lloyds.
I cant see that G has provided any conclusive evidence in support of its assertion. 
Ultimately, what it has said appears to be largely based on Gs directors recollection of the 
events  some of which I do think is supported by the evidence. But also, some of which 
isnt, where Im more persuaded by the technical evidence Ive seen (such as Barclays and 
Lloyds system logs and transaction data). But since much has been made about the 
chronology of the payments and events, Ive set out below what I understand to have 
happened, and when, based on the evidence available to me.All the below payments were made from Gs account with Barclays to two accounts held with 
Lloyds. Ill refer to the recipient accounts as account X and account Y. 
Payment 
NumberRecipient 
AccountPayment 
ChannelDate Time the 
Payment 
was 
Processed 
(approx.)Amount
Payment 1 X Online 12 February 2019 11.02am £50,000
Payment 2 X Mobile 12 February 2019 11.34am £50,000
Payment 3 X Online 13 February 2019 9.42am £50,000
Payment 4 X Mobile 13 February 2019 9.42am £50,000
All the above payments credited the recipient account. There was spending following 
receipt of the payments. Blocks werent placed until around 12.00pm on 13 February 2019.   
Payment 5 X Mobile 14 February 2019 8.30am (£50,000)
Payment was 
returned 
Payment 6 X Online 14 February 2019 8.42am (£50,000)
Payment was 
returned 
G received an email on 14 February 2019, informing it about the change in account details. 
The payments which followed were made to new account details. 
Payment 7 Y Online 15 February 2019 10.28am £50,000
Payment 7 appears to have been instructed on 14 February 2019 at 12.33pm. Barclays 
contact notes say it spoke to Gs director on 15 February 2019 at around 10.30am. Above 
payment was confirmed as genuine and released.
Payment 8 Y Online 15 February 2019 10.34am £50,000
Barclays contact notes say it spoke to G again on 15 February 2019 at around 2.30pm. 
Blocks removed. 
Payment 9 Y Mobile 16 February 2019 9.21am £50,000
Payment 10 Y Online 16 February 2019 5.50pm £50,000
Payment 10 was instructed on 16 February 2019 at 10.02am. Barclays contact notes show 
blocks placed on Gs online banking were removed on 16 February 2019. This would 
suggest G spoke to Barclays, likely in relation to the above payment, which would explain 
the time between instruction and execution.  
Payment 11 Y Mobile 17 February 2019 9.45am £50,000
Barclays contact notes show on 18 February 2019 it placed blocks on Gs account and left a 
message as it had concerns about the payments made to Lloyds. 
Barclays contact notes show it spoke to G on 19 February 2019, who confirmed payments 
as genuine.  
Barclays contact notes show G called to report fraud on 20 February 2019. It contacts 
Lloyds the same day at around 4.00pm. 
Relevant law, regulation and guidance
Banks and other regulated firms must take reasonable care to establish and maintain 
effective systems and controls for countering the risk they might be used to further financial 
crime. Barclays is aware of our general position on a banks safeguarding and due-diligence 
duties to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published 
many decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules 
and regulations.Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider good industry practice at the time, I consider that Barclays ought to have 
been monitoring accounts to counter various risks; having systems in place to identify 
unusual transactions or other indicators that its customer was at risk of fraud; and, in some 
situations, making additional checks before processing payments or declining them 
altogether to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
In this case, Barclays agrees that it could have done more and that it missed chances to 
directly educate Gs director about emails being intercepted and used for scam purposes.  
As this much seems common ground, I dont consider it to be necessary to repeat the 
principles, relevant rules and regulations here in much greater detail than I have above.
Could Barclays have prevented any of Gs losses?
Firstly, G has disputed whether its payments were authorised on the basis that the 
recipients names entered on its payment instructions did not match the names on either of 
the accounts that received its payments. But Im satisfied under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the PSRs), the payment is considered authorised and G is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. Under the PSRs it is the unique identifier that defines 
a payments destination. That expression essentially means the sort code and account 
number, but does not include the name of the beneficiary. And Regulation 90 of the PSRs 
(which Ive set out later in this decision) says that where a payment instruction is executed in 
accordance with the unique identifier, the payment order is deemed to have been correctly 
executed by each bank involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee 
specified by the unique identifier.
G says Barclays failed on several counts to put in place adequate systems and protective 
measures to guard G from this type of fraud. One of which, is that it didnt check that its 
payments went to the named payee even though its systems required G to input the 
beneficiarys name when initiating a payment through its online banking and/or mobile 
banking app. G says that as a result of that requirement Barclays falsely implies this 
information will be transmitted to the recipient bank for verification. G considers this to be a 
misrepresentation, and on these grounds, it says it shouldnt be responsible for the losses it 
incurred. It claims that had Barclays checked to see if the names matched, Gs losses would 
not have occurred, as the recipient accounts were not in the same names as the intended 
beneficiary.
I appreciate the point G makes but I dont agree that Barclays made the misrepresentation 
that G alleges. Simply requiring the payees name doesnt, in my view, amount to a 
statement that this will be transmitted to the recipients bank so that it can be checked and 
verified. So, I dont intend on upholding the complaint on that basis. Further including a box 
for the recipient's name is also not a contractual promise by Barclays to transmit that 
information to the recipient bank for verification. And if no such box had been present, thus 
removing any basis for the alleged misrepresentation, G would still have suffered the same 
loss, because G would most probably have proceeded with the payments to the same 
account number and sort code in any event.I appreciate G says Barclays ought to have checked to see if the name of the beneficiary on 
the payment instruction matched the name of the recipient accountholder, but as I touched 
upon earlier, at the material time, the checking of the name given on the payment instruction 
against the name of the recipient accountholder was not a requirement nor was it a part of 
the payment process. This is further supported by the Payment Systems Regulator more 
recently introducing a name checking systems for UK payments referred to as confirmation 
of payee (CoP). If matching a payee name was already a part of the payment execution 
process, there wouldnt have been a need for this initiative to help combat fraud. And 
unfortunately, the CoP system had not been implemented at the time Gs payments were 
made.
So taking this altogether I can't say that Barclays have acted unreasonably, or that it did 
anything wrong by processing and sending the payments to the account number and sort-
code G had provided in its payment instructions.
Payments made to account X
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded payments 1 and 2 were out of 
character and so I dont think they ought to have attracted closer scrutiny on Barclays part. 
G had in the preceding 12 months made payments of £50,000 towards loan and debt 
payments, so I think it was reasonable for Barclays to have not questioned these payments. 
I also note that G in its response of 1 March 2022 accepts that Barclays could not have done 
anything to stop the first payments totalling £100,000. So I wont comment further on this 
point.
The evidence is not clear about what exactly happened at the time payments 3 and 4 were 
instructed. Barclays contact notes do not show a record of any conversation taking place 
with G on 13 February 2019. But G in its initial submissions said Barclays did intervene in 
these payments, there was interaction, no warnings were given, and the payments were 
processed as G confirmed them as genuine. But what G has shared, in its later submissions 
is different. It says the payments made on 13 February 2019 (payments 3 and 4 
respectively) were declined and returned by Lloyds. It says the payments were re-
attempted and successfully made the following day, 14 February 2019, after it soke to 
Barclays and the blocks placed on its account were removed. I know G feels strongly about 
Barclays actions when Lloyds supposedly returned payments. I understand it feels Barclays 
failed to relay information properly and advise it of Lloyds suspicions. But where the 
evidence as to what occurred is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I must reach a 
decision on the balance of probabilities: in other words, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
With that in mind, having considered all the information available to me, Im satisfied 
payments 3 and 4 were not returned as G alleges, nor do I think that Barclays were on 
notice about Lloyds concerns about the recipient account thus failing to adequately warn G 
at the time payments 3 and 4 were instructed. I say this because, firstly, Barclays records 
show these payments were sent at approximately 9.42am. The recipient account statements 
show them being received and credited to account X at a similar time. Lloyds themselves 
didnt identify and act in relation to account X until a couple of hours later, so it couldnt have 
put Barclays on notice about something it itself wasnt aware of. Further, these monies 
(£100,000) along with some funds that were recovered from payments 1 and 2 
(around £34,000) were returned to Barclays about six months later, and eventually to G. So I 
think payments 3 and 4 werent reversed or declined as G suggests. But since there is no 
loss in relation to payments 3 and 4, as these funds were recovered and returned, I dont 
consider it necessary to make a finding on whether a call did or didnt take place on 
13 February 2019.Payments 5 and 6, which were made on 14 February 2019 appear to have been reversed. 
The most plausible and logical answer to why these were returned seems that these were 
rejected by Lloyds as by that time it had blocked account X. But in any event, there is no loss 
to G in relation to those payments either.
So ultimately, the only loss G suffered from payments 1 to 6 was the part of payments 
1 and 2 that wasnt recovered; and Barclays couldnt reasonably have been expected to 
prevent either of payments 1 and 2. So I dont intend to make any award against Barclays in 
relation to the payments which were sent to account X.
Payments made to account Y
On 15 Feb 2019 Barclays spoke to G, this was before any of its funds were sent to 
account Y. According to Lloyds records, by this point it had asked Barclays to verify the 
funds in relation to some of the payments to account X. Lloyds most likely also returned two 
payments (payment 5 and 6) totalling £100,000 which G had sent to account X. So when 
that conversation took place, I think Barclays should have gone further before processing 
payment 7, by asking more questions in relation to how G had come to make the payments 
to account X that were being returned and why it was now seeking to pay sums to 
account Y. Any such properly directed conversation would most likely have revealed to 
Barclays the risk that G might be the victim of an email interception scam, or similar 
authorised push payment (APP) fraud. So Barclays should have provided G with warnings 
that were tailored to the scam that it was falling victim to.
Had it done so, I think its most likely that G would have withdrawn its instruction to make 
payment 7 and made further enquiries with the intended beneficiary. And by doing so I think 
the scam would have quickly unravelled and come to light. So Im currently persuaded that 
Barclays could have prevented all the payments to account Y, with a proper scam warning. 
G reported the fraud to Barclays, who informed Lloyds on 20 February 2019, at which point 
only a small sum remained in account Y. A total sum of £4078.85 has since been recovered 
and returned. So Gs outstanding loss in relation to the payments it made to account Y is 
£245,921.15.
Ive found in the linked complaint against Lloyds that with the exception of the first payment 
of £14,500 that left account Y, Lloyds could and should also have prevented the remainder 
of Gs losses arising from payments it made to account Y. So, I intend to find that Barclays 
and Lloyds are both at fault and responsible for a loss to G of £231,421.15 and to make an 
overall award in respect of that part of Gs losses (after next taking into account contributory 
negligence which Ive covered below in greater detail), which Ill apportion between the two 
banks, so that each will have to pay G a part of it. In these circumstances, Ive said that I 
think it would be appropriate for the award to be split equally as both Barclays and Lloyds 
have failed in what could and should have reasonably been expected of them as regulated 
firms and I cant see that either of them is more at fault than the other (albeit for different 
reasons) in respect of Gs loss, or more the cause of it.
Ive carefully considered whether this award should be reduced to reflect any contributory 
negligence on the part of G in relation to the making of the payments to account Y  and I 
think it should. Ill explain why.G has made a number of varied submissions in relation to what it thinks about a deduction 
for contributory negligence  most predicated on, and in response to, the thoughts of our 
Investigators and my Ombudsman colleague. Broadly speaking it ranges from no deduction 
from any redress that is due on the grounds of contributory negligence, to disagreeing with 
the 50% deduction for contributory negligence stating that it is inconsistent with the 
deduction made by the court in Singularis Holdings Ltd v Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Ltd 
[2019] UKSC 50 (Singularis) and that it should be, if at all, 25%. Even to G saying in 
response to the provisional decision issued by my Ombudsman colleague that it accepts that 
it has contributed by way of negligence to its loss, but thinks a reduction should only be 
made to its loss outstanding from payments it made to account X, not its loss outstanding 
from payments it made to account Y.
With respect, as my findings markedly differ to those of my colleagues, I will not be 
addressing every point G has raised about the misapplication of contributory negligence. 
Instead, I will focus on my findings and explaining the reasons for why I think the award 
should be reduced and to what extent.
Firstly, the facts of this case are totally different to those in the Singularis case  so I dont 
agree that a direct parallel can be drawn. The purpose in citing this legal case is to highlight 
that there are circumstances where it might be appropriate to make a reduction on account 
of a claimants (here complainants) contributory negligence.
I note that apportionment of liability for contributory negligence in such circumstances may 
not always be confined to simply examining the blameworthiness of G but can also depend 
on other factors including the conduct of the respondents and the importance of their acts or 
omissions in causing the loss. But an Ombudsmans award of financial redress must be in 
an amount that he/she considers fair compensation for the loss or damage ... suffered by 
the complainant (s.229(2) FSMA 2000). So to be absolutely clear, here the award I intend 
on making is what I consider to be fair, and not applying the law (which, anyway, couldnt 
apply here because I am not considering two legal claims, let alone two legal claims based 
upon breaches of a legal duty of care).
With that being said, I agree with my colleague Ombudsman that I think its reasonable to 
have higher expectations of a micro-enterprise engaged in activity for commercial gain, such 
as G, compared to a consumer. And as a company which fairly regularly deals with 
movements of large sums of money, I also agree that its director can reasonably be 
expected to educate himself as to the risks he might come across in the course of his 
business (including scams). G says its director ought to be viewed more as a consumer or a 
layperson and has made submissions in support of this. Ive considered everything G has 
shared (throughout the time the case has been with our service), along with information that 
is available publicly about G, and I think its fair that the expectations on G as a limited 
company (including its director) are slightly higher.
G cannot provide a copy of the email it received from the fraudsters asking for the payment 
to be made to different account details. In its original submission G said it: 
 had received, and believed, an email purportedly from [investment firm] (but in fact sent 
by the fraudsters) asserting that the original account was full and that future funds should 
be sent to a different account, for which details were provided.It then went onto say:
 Barclays did not warn G that an email stating that a designated bank account was full 
was suspicious, and that it could have been an attempt by fraudsters to continue their fraud 
using a new account in circumstances where the account which the fraudsters had hitherto 
been using had fallen under suspicion from Lloyds on the previous day (14 February 2019), 
to the extent that Lloyds has returned payments to that account.
I appreciate it has subsequently explained that G was given a plausible explanation for the 
change in the beneficiary account details, namely that the first investment opportunity had 
been fully subscribed and another had opened up, requiring the use of a different account. 
But this was in response to our Investigator and Ombudsman referring to this evidence as 
part of their reasoning for making a deduction for contributory negligence. And if it were true 
that the investment opportunity was full (i.e. fully subscribed) and that a new investment 
opportunity of a similar nature had opened but required a different bank account, given the 
nature of the investment G was partaking in Id reasonably have expected it to have been 
issued with a revised contract/agreement and as a minimum a new loan note with the terms 
of the new investment opportunity. G hasnt provided any such evidence in support of its 
claim.
In the absence of the email G received containing the new account details or any evidence 
which might corroborate the explanation G has more recently provided, Im more persuaded 
by Gs initial submissions as to the reason for the change of account. And I think its most 
likely that in response to payments 5 and 6 to account X being returned G was simply told 
that the original account was full and that future funds should be directed to new account 
details. And even if G understood this to be that the subscription was full that still wouldnt 
have explained why payments were returned by Lloyds  as Id expect G to know that a 
bank account would not get full.
I think its reasonable to expect an experienced business, like G, who regularly invests in this 
way to realise that something isnt right when: unexpectedly being told an account is full; 
payments were returned by the recipient bank without explanation; and being questioned by 
Barclays about the nature of the payments. I think altogether there was enough going on that 
G reasonably ought to have had concerns at the time of instructing the payments to 
account Y and it should have looked into the reason for the change of account details before 
making these payments. I think any such reasonable investigation by G would most likely 
have led to it uncovering the fraud.
So I must have regard for Gs share of responsibility in the loss it has suffered. And whilst 
Ive held G to a slightly higher level due to the nature of its business and the specific 
circumstances of this scam, I do acknowledge that there remains an imbalance in knowledge 
and experience between G and the banks. So in deciding how much the reduction for Gs 
negligence should be, I have taken into account the differing levels of experience between G 
and the banks as well as the banks obligation to prevent fraud and scams. So taking all of 
this together I think in the circumstances of this case a reduction of 25% for Gs share in the 
responsibility for the losses arising from account Y is fair.Im aware that it could be argued that it would be fairer to apply a different reduction to a 
scenario where one bank has failed to prevent a loss compared to a scenario where two 
banks have failed to prevent a loss. Ive thought about this carefully and on the facts, I dont 
think they differ sufficiently to award a different reduction for contributory negligence in 
respect of one payment leaving account Y. In reaching my intended decision Ive taken into 
account as relevant law the fact that has been held that the Law Reform (Contributory 
Negligence) Act 1945 contemplates that, if the claimants own fault was one of the causes of 
a loss, the damages are to be reduced by the self-same amount as against any of the other 
parties whose fault was a cause, whether the claimant sues one or more of them.
So, the total sum I intend on directing Barclays to pay G for losses arising from payments 
sent to account Y is £97,657.93. This figure is derived in the following way:
The outstanding loss from account Y is £245,921.15. That being £250,000 which was sent to 
account Y between 15 and 17 February 2019 minus funds recovered from account Y 
totalling £4078.85.
Barclays alone (in the context of respondents) couldve prevented the loss of £14,500 from 
account Y. After a 25% reduction for contributory negligence, a sum of £10,875 is payable 
by Barclays.
And both Barclays and Lloyds couldve prevented the remaining loss of £231,421.15. After a 
25% reduction for contributory negligence, a sum of £173,565.86 is payable and Im 
intending to apportion that as a 50/50 split between Barclays and Lloyds with each paying 
£86,782.93.
My finding in relation to interest awards on sums awarded and recovered funds is covered 
further on.
Assisting G with the recovery of its losses
Part of Gs complaint is that Barclays hasnt satisfactorily assisted it in the recovery of its 
losses.
Regulation 90 of the PSRs says the following:
90. Incorrect unique identifiers
(1) Where a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the payment 
order is deemed to have been correctly executed by each payment service provider involved 
in executing the payment order with respect to the payee specified by the unique identifier.
(2) Where the unique identifier provided by the payment service user is incorrect, the 
payment service provider is not liable under regulation 91 or 92 for non-execution or 
defective execution of the payment transaction, but the payment service provider
(a) must make reasonable efforts to recover the funds involved in the payment transaction; 
and 
(b) may, if agreed in the framework contract, charge the payment service user for any such
recovery.
(3) The payee's payment service provider must co-operate with the payer's payment service 
provider in its efforts to recover the funds, in particular by providing to the payer's payment 
service provider all relevant information for the collection of funds.(4) If the payer's payment service provider is unable to recover the funds it must, on receipt 
of a written request, provide to the payer all available relevant information in order for the 
payer to claim repayment of the funds.
(5) Where the payment service user provides information additional to that specified in 
regulation 43(2)(a) (information required prior to the conclusion of a single payment service 
contract) or paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 4 (prior general information for framework 
contracts), the payment service provider is liable only for the execution of payment 
transactions in accordance with the unique identifier provided by the payment service user.
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that G entered incorrect unique 
identifiers for the purposes of triggering the banks respective duties under Regulations 90(2) 
to (4). I say this because G was due to make payments to invest in a genuine opportunity. 
The payment had been agreed and was expected. The emails between G and the firm it was 
dealing with were intercepted, and details changed. So here I consider the investment firms 
legitimate bank details to be the correct unique identifier. I say this because  but for the 
interception and changing of account details  G would've sent the payments to the 
investment firms legitimate details.
Im aware and have taken into consideration that data controllers such as Barclays are 
required to comply with the principles under the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA 2018) and 
UKs General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR). And if they do not have a lawful basis 
for holding and processing personal data (which includes disclosing that information to a 
third party) they will be in breach of DPA 2018 and UK GDPR, and any individual whose 
privacy rights have been affected may have a number of rights against them. Banks also 
owe their customers contractual duties of confidentiality. However, individual privacy rights 
are not absolute, and the organisation holding the data may have a lawful basis for providing 
it to a third party in a way that would otherwise be unlawful if the above exemption did not 
apply. Similarly, duties of confidentiality are subject to qualifications and dont apply where 
the law requires disclosure of the relevant information.
The regulations set out above require disclosure of data, so even where the relevant 
information contains data relating to individuals Barclays will have a lawful basis for 
disclosure  under regulation 90(4) which says if Barclays has been unable to recover the 
funds, as is the case here (and will likely continue to be the case as I intend on only partially 
upholding Gs complaints), on receipt of written request from G, it must provide all available 
relevant information in order for G to claim repayment of its loss.
I have seen that a written request for information to assist the claimant (here G) in a court 
case was contained in Gs complaint form, which was shared with Barclays on 
16 March 2020. I cant see that Barclays have ever tried to obtain any information from 
Lloyds. So I intend on directing Barclays, to request this from Lloyds, and upon receipt share 
with G as required under regulation 90(4) of the PSRs which says:  on receipt of a written 
request, provide to the payer all available relevant information in order for the payer to claim 
repayment of the funds. If there is a dispute as to whether Barclays has fulfilled its 
obligation under the direction, G will need to go to court and argue that our 
direction/regulation 90(4) entitles it to more than it has been given.
I think its important I also highlight that payee bank accounts in fraud cases could be in 
hands of dangerous criminals/individuals with possible links to organised crime  or indeed a 
vulnerable person/innocent party or someone who themselves are also a victim. So, if on 
receipt of this information, G intends to contact the payee, I strongly suggest it seeks advice 
 from the police or a solicitor  before attempting recovery of funds and leaves any practical 
steps which need to be taken to the appropriate authorities.Interest, compensation for distress and inconvenience and reimbursement of legal costs
Given my finding above that Barclays should refund G for some of the loss it has suffered, I 
next need to consider what interest (if any) Barclays should add to this amount to 
compensate G for the period it was without these funds. Our usual approach where the cost 
of being deprived of the funds is intangible, is to apply a simple interest rate of 8% broadly to 
reflect the opportunity cost of being without the funds.
The previous Ombudsman thought no provision for interest was required. He said: it seems 
that G were able to borrow the funds (at no cost to itself) to meet its investment obligations. 
As such Im not persuaded that G have suffered a loss by being without those funds and I 
dont deem an interest award to be appropriate.
In response to which, G points out that it is contrary to the practice of our service not to 
include an award of interest where it is established that a loss has been suffered.
Ive considered the evidence afresh and I dont think that I can reasonably conclude that G 
suffered no loss because of the deprivation of the funds I intend on awarding G for the 
period up to acceptance (if it chooses to) of my final decision or resulting from not having 
access to the recovered funds as soon as it ought to have.
G has been without what I consider a significant sum of money for long periods of time. I 
cannot be certain about the precise cost to G of being deprived of this money because it 
might have used the funds in a variety of ways. The nature of Gs business is to invest when 
an opportunity arises. So, on balance, Im satisfied that it would have done something with 
those funds. And if it had invested the money elsewhere, now I think several years on, it 
would be difficult to say with any certainty what exactly G would have invested in over time 
(potentially with any number of reinvestments of proceeds) and the return it would have 
realistically achieved. So, without any compelling reason to depart from our usual approach, 
I consider it fair and reasonable that Barclays pays G simple interest at 8% p.a. on the 
amount to be refunded.
In addition, Lloyds recovered and returned a sum of £134,658.76 to Barclays on 
13 August 2019. But Barclays didnt return these funds to G until 15 February 2021, and 
after our services involvement. Im satisfied the delay was avoidable and but for Barclays 
failure to return this money, G most likely wouldve made use of those funds, so I consider it 
to be fair and reasonable that Barclays pays simple interest at 8% p.a. on the sum of 
£134,658.76 recovered from account X for the duration of time between Lloyds returning the 
funds to Barclays and these being received by G.
I also note that when Barclays sent notification of fraud to Lloyds, it informed Barclays that 
some of the money which had been received into account Y had been paid away to an 
account held by them. As the vast majority of the monies recovered (just over £4000 of the 
£4078.85) were from one of Barclays own accounts (so arguably it couldve recovered and 
returned it sooner); it having the customer and contractual relationship with G; and taking 
into account it couldve prevented all the losses arising from funds sent to account Y. I think 
the simplest and fairest way (without getting into complex redress calculations for interest 
pertaining to a small sum of around £70) is to ask Barclays to pay G 8% simple interest p.a. 
on the total sum of £4078.85 for the period of time it was without those funds.G is a distinct and separate legal entity. It is the eligible complainant. So I can only consider 
the impact on the entity itself, rather than the people bringing its complaint. And as G isnt an 
individual person, it cant experience distress, pain or suffering. But it can experience 
inconvenience and damage to its reputation. So for completeness Ive considered whether it 
would be fair and reasonable to direct Barclays to pay G more than the £300 compensatory 
award it has already paid for delays, poor service and lack of communication. Gs 
submissions have not commented on such matters in any great detail. With that in mind, Ive 
thought about the overall impact of Barclays wrongdoings on G and whether it can safely be 
concluded that these caused further inconvenience or damage to its reputation where I think 
it would be fair to make a direction that awards G additional compensation. But from what 
Ive seen I dont think it did. So I wont be asking Barclays to pay anything more than the 
£300 it has already paid.
And finally, we rarely think it necessary for professional costs to be incurred to raise a 
complaint with a regulated financial business or to bring a complaint to this service. Here, 
appointing a professional was something G has chosen to do, rather than a case of where it 
was a necessity. So I do not intend on asking Barclays to reimburse G for the legal costs it 
has incurred in bringing this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either G 
or Barclays Bank Plc Im intending to uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right I intend to direct Barclays Bank Plc to:
-Pay G, £97,657.93 (losses from account Y) together with 8% simple interest p.a.  
Interest should be paid from the mid-date of the payments that Barclays could have 
prevented, 16 February 2019, until the date of settlement.
-Pay G, 8% simple interest p.a. on the total sum of the funds which were recovered 
from account Y. Interest should be paid for the period between the mid-date of the 
payments that Barclays could have prevented, 16 February 2019, and the date(s) 
these funds were returned to G.
-Pay G, 8% simple interest p.a. on the total sum of the funds recovered from account 
X for the period between Lloyds returning those to Barclays and it returning these to 
G.
-Within 28 days of acceptance of the decision require Lloyds to provide it with all 
relevant information for the collection of Gs lost funds; and within 56 days of 
acceptance of the decision provide G all available relevant information in order for G 
to claim repayment of the funds.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and/or information they want me to 
consider. 
Barclays responded to say it has reviewed the case and it agrees with the recommendation 
as set out in my provisional decision. 
G responded to say it accepts my provisional decision. 
So now that both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final 
decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision and have not put forward any new 
evidence, comments or arguments for me to consider. I therefore see no reason to depart 
from the findings I made in my provisional decision which I have quoted above. 
Putting things right
To put things right Barclays Bank Plc must take the following actions:
- Pay G, £97,657.93 (losses from account Y) together with 8% simple interest p.a.  
Interest should be paid from the mid-date of the payments that Barclays could have 
prevented, 16 February 2019, until the date of settlement.
- Pay G, 8% simple interest p.a. on the total sum of the funds which were recovered 
from account Y. Interest should be paid for the period between the mid-date of the 
payments that Barclays could have prevented, 16 February 2019, and the date(s) 
these funds were returned to G.
- Pay G, 8% simple interest p.a. on the total sum of the funds recovered from account 
X for the period between Lloyds returning those to Barclays and it returning these to 
G.
- Within 28 days of acceptance of the decision require Lloyds to provide it with all 
relevant information for the collection of Gs lost funds; and within 56 days of 
acceptance of the decision provide G all available relevant information in order for G 
to claim repayment of the funds.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and 
direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to take the actions outlined in the putting things right section 
of this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman