DRN-3225251
The complaint
Mr A is complaining that he received a balance transfer offer from Sainsburys Bank Plc
(Sainsburys) but after carrying out the transfer, they told him the details were incorrect and
it would only be interest free until February 2021, not October 2021 as advertised.  
What happened
 Mr A had an existing credit card with Sainsburys, and this had a balance transfer offer
running until February 2021. In April 2020, they sent him a letter advising of a balance
transfer offer with an end date in October 2021. On 16 June 2020, Mr A transferred a
balance to the card, incurring a transfer fee of £172.35.
On 29 June 2020, Sainsburys wrote to Mr A to explain that the letter with the offer to
October 2021 was incorrect, and his interest free period would end in February 2021, as per
his original terms, not in October 2021.
Mr A complained, saying that he felt they had advertised an October 2021 end date, so the
business should honour that end date. Sainsburys responded and in their FRL, they
accepted that they had sent Mr A the letter with wrong information, but that they couldnt
extend his balance transfer offer to the October date. They apologised, said he would get the
interest free period until February 2021, and paid him £50 to recognise the error and any
upset caused.
Unhappy with this, Mr A brought his concerns to our service. The investigator who looked at
the case here agreed that Sainsburys had made a mistake but didnt feel that Sainsburys
should have to extend the balance transfer period until October 2021, as this wouldnt be a
fair outcome. It would be treating the incorrect information as correct. Instead, they
recommended a further £75 to recognise the trouble and upset caused to Mr A (on top of the
original £50 given).
Sainsburys accepted this view, but Mr A didnt feel this was a fair outcome and asked for an
Ombudsman to review the case. He felt that Sainsburys should honour the original offer,  
and that £75 would not cover the costs to him of losing several months of his interest free
period he expected. He felt that if and when he transferred the balance away to another card
sooner than he was expecting to have to do this, he would incur a further fee from that card
provider, meaning he was being left out of pocket. 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 December 2021. My provisional findings were as follows:
There is little argument here about the merits of the complaint. Sainsburys have accepted
they got things wrong in sending Mr A the letter with incorrect information on it. I asked to
see a copy of the letter, which Mr A provided. Having reviewed the letter, I think it was
reasonable for Mr A to have assumed this was a new offer on his card. He didnt have a
balance on the card at that point, and the letter reads like a new offer for him. On balance, I
dont think an average consumer would have received the letter and thought that it might be
wrong, and that they had an existing offer which ran until February 2021.
So, Mr A transferred the balance to the card in mid-June 2020 in good faith, expecting the
interest free period to run until October 2021. Shortly after he did this, the business wrote to
him to explain the error, and confirm that he would only receive the interest free period until
February 2021.
Sainsburys at this point have corrected their error. Mr A knows that the information given to
him was wrong, and I agree with the investigator who looked at the case when they said that
we shouldnt expect the business to treat the incorrect information as correct in order to put
things right for Mr A. On this basis, I wouldnt expect Sainsburys to honour the October 2021
end date for the offer.
However, Mr A has paid £172.35 for a balance transfer offer he believes will last until
October 2021, only to discover after carrying out the transfer that he wont receive that offer.
He complained immediately and Sainsburys responded immediately in early July with an
apology and a £50 offer for the error and upset caused.
Unfortunately, due to delays at our service largely because of the volume of complaints we
have received in 2020/21, it has taken a considerable amount of time for us now to reach
this stage. The offer has already ended on Mr As card and he has had to act accordingly.
These delays make any redress to put this situation right difficult. It wouldnt have been fair
to ask Sainsburys to honour the offer; theyve admitted the communication was wrong, but
that doesnt mean they should have to honour it. However, I dont think theyve done enough
to put things right for Mr A.
Mr A told us when bringing the complaint to us that he already had another credit card with a
different provider which at the time had advertised a balance transfer offer until July 2021.
He didnt take this up because Sainsburys offered him a transfer with a promotional period
until October 2021. Its reasonable to assume that if he was aware the Sainsburys offer was
only going to run until February 2021, he would have moved the balance to the other
provider.
As such, the ideal resolution for this complaint at the time might have been for Sainsburys to
recognise that he wouldnt have transferred the balance to them and refunded him the fee to
allow him to transfer it elsewhere in July 2020 without having had to pay two sets of transfer
fees. This obviously didnt happen at the time however, but I still feel this is the fairest way to
put things right now.
It isnt possible to work out a monetary value for the benefit Mr A would have received from
extra few months interest free period, because it would never have been clear what the
remaining balance might have been on the card during those months. Similarly, there might
have been better or worse balance transfer offers available in February 2021 compared to
June/July 2020 when this transfer happened, so its not clear how much impact this problem
may have caused in the longer run.
Its not possible to go back in time and recommend Mr A is refunded the transfer fee he paid
so that he can move the balance elsewhere at no extra cost to himself in July 2020. But I
think that for this specific case, the fairest way to put things right is to refund Mr A the
transfer fee he paid in June 2020 of £172.35. He only transferred this balance to the
Sainsburys card because of the incorrect offer he was sent, so I think this fee should be
refunded in recognition of that error.
I recognise that this means that with hindsight Mr A will have been able to leave the balance
on the Sainsburys card for several months at no cost to himself if the transfer fee he paid is
refunded to him. However, I dont know whether any offers to transfer the balance away in
February 2021 were better or worse than the ones he could have got in June/July 2020, orindeed in October 2021 when he was expecting the deal to last until. As such, considering
the time that has now elapsed, I think this is the fairest option.
It means he wont have had to pay 2 sets of balance transfer fees, and I think this is the most
important thing to put right to ensure fairness. Sainsburys have made an error here in
sending him an offer which they then could not honour, and in this specific set of
circumstances, I feel this is the fairest way to put this right.
With regards to trouble and upset, I am satisfied that the £50 paid by Sainsburys originally is
sufficient here. I dont intend to add anything further.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint, and that I intend to direct Sainsburys
to pay Mr A £172.35, the equivalent of a refund for his balance transfer fee paid in June
2020. This is on top of the £50 already paid in recognition of the trouble and upset caused. I
now invite both parties to make any further comments and provide any further evidence by
the deadline date. I will then make my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A responded to my provisional decision, telling us he agreed with it and was happy to 
accept it as a resolution to his complaint. Sainsburys also responded, saying they had no 
comments or evidence to add and would await the final decision. 
As such, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and the reasons for them. 
For the reasons laid out in my provisional decision and repeated above, I dont think 
Sainsburys have done enough to put things right here, and so I am upholding this complaint. 
Putting things right
I instruct Sainsburys Bank plc to pay Mr A £172.35 compensation, the equivalent of a refund 
of his balance transfer fee.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman