DRN-3969221
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the advice he received from Sanlam Financial Services UK 
Limited (Sanlam) to invest into two Savings Programmes.
Mr S is represented by a third party bringing his complaint but for ease of reference in this 
decision is shall refer to Mr S.
What happened
Mr S was advised by Sanlam to invest into two Savings Programmes which I shall refer to as 
Policy one and Policy two. Details of those investments and partial surrender are;
Policy 
no.Dates 
of saleMonthly 
premiumSegments 
surrenderedDates of 
surrender Total 
investedSurrender 
proceedsSegments 
still 
running
 One 27.04.90 £35.00  6 to 9 29.11.07 £2,968.00   £4,269.94 Zero to 5 
 4 and 5 21.08.19 £2,464.00   £5,224.76 Zero to 3
 Two 19.09.90 £50.00  6 to 9 29.11.07 £4,140.00   £5,898.38 Zero to 5
 2 to 5 04.04.19 £6,620.00 £12,993.03 Zero to 1
Mr S became concerned about the advice he had received and complained to Sanlam. He 
said there was no evidence of more suitable savings options being discussed. The policies 
were written to the age of 65 years and there was no evidence that a suitable ten-year 
savings contract with the option to extend was discussed which he says would have been 
cheaper, therefore producing a better return.
When Policy two was taken Mr S would have met Sanlams threshold for its Investment 
Programme but there was no evidence this better policy was discussed and that Policy one 
should have been cancelled and the ten-year plan taken funded by the premiums being paid 
for Policy one and two.
In its response to Mr Ss complaint Sanlam didnt think it should be upheld and said;
The Savings Programmes  Policies one and two  were written on a non-qualifying 
basis and without any life assurance. The qualifying nature of the alternative 
Investment Programme and the additional mortality costs that would have been 
incurred didnt make this a straight swap in terms of cancelling Policy one and 
investing the premiums of Policy one and two into a new ten year policy.
The fact find for the sale of Policy two said Mr S wanted to increase his savings for 
his mortgage. His Homeowners Programme was set up for 25 years and would 
suggest a longer-term savings programme may have been more appropriate. And it 
said Mr Ss risk rating was high which suggested he would have been declined at 
underwriting stage for an Investment Programme or that he specifically didnt want 
life assurance due to the higher mortality charges.
And as some of the segments were still in form this suggested Mr S was looking for 
longer term savings than a ten-year plan.
Mr S said that the Savings Programmes were sold to people in their twenties who did not 
require such a long-term product and the sales were commission driven. The better product 
was the Investment Programme because of its ten-year extendable policy with lower 
charges bur this wasnt discussed because of the lower commission level. Mr S was instead 
sold two Savings Programmes within a five-month period in order to maximise commission.
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
There was nothing to suggest the Savings Programmes were unaffordable for Mr S.
There was nothing to suggest Mr S didnt want to invest for the longer term or for a 
specific purpose. No attitude to risk was recorded so it was difficult for the 
investigator to comment on that.
From the information available Mr S wanted a savings plan and even though he had 
made partial withdrawals there wasnt any evidence to persuade the investigator that 
the advice was unsuitable.
The investigator could only consider what had been invested into, and not any 
alternatives.
Mr S asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision concluding that the complaint should be upheld but I asked 
both parties to give me anything further they wanted me to consider before I issued my final 
decision. Heres what I said;
I should first make clear that I appreciate how long ago these sales were made and it 
might be difficult for Mr S to recollect details from the time and for Sanlam to have 
complete documentation. When the evidence I have for a complaint is incomplete or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in 
other words, means I base my decision of what I think is most likely to have 
happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
And while both sales were a long time ago, they were made after the Financial 
Services Act 1986 came into force on 29 April 1988. That Act was aimed at 
regulating investment business and giving investors greater protection. It introduced 
the requirement for investment to be suitable for the customers circumstances  so 
financial businesses had to find out the customers needs and circumstances and 
give suitable advice.
Mr Ss circumstances
There is some documentation available from the time of the two sales and some 
information about Mr Ss circumstances was recorded. As that was recorded at the 
times of the sales, I dont think its unreasonable for me to rely on that information. 
And I also asked Mr S for his recollections.
In April 1990, at the time of the first sale, its recorded that Mr S was 28 years of age, 
single, employed and earning £9,360 annually. He owned his own property with a 
mortgage outstanding of £21,850 which cost £220 per month. He had bought that 
property in November 1988 but planned to move in December 1990. He had no other 
assets but did contribute to a contracted-out pension scheme at £40 per month and 
was paying off credit card debt at £52 per month but which was due to be repaid in 
October 1990. He had two life assurance policies costing him £25 per month. Mr S didnt hold any savings or investments. Its recorded in the Client factfile that Mr Ss 
Client Objectives/Ambitions were for savings and retirement provisions.
The September 1990 Client factfile update sheet records that Mr S was now married 
and lived in the same property. Under Change its recorded that Mr S Would like to 
remortgage property to capital raise [£]5,000 & increase savings by £50.00pm. The 
factfile records that Mr S did plan to move in the December of that year so he might 
have wanted to raise that capital for moving costs but Mr Ss recollection is that he 
wanted those funds for wedding costs and I note he had recently married.
I asked Mr Ss recollection about his circumstances around the time of the sales, 
which, as mentioned above, I appreciate was a long time ago.
He told us that he didnt have any savings or experience of investment which ties in 
with the factfile records but recalls that he thought it would be prudent of him to start 
saving. I asked him about why he wanted to save/invest for the longer term of 25 
years or more. Mr Ss recollection is that he wasnt aware that the policies were 
exclusively long term as they were presented as being suitable for the medium term. 
For the second sale Mr S couldnt recall the reason for the increase in savings of £50 
per month. In its response to Mr Ss complaint Sanlam had said that Mr S increased 
his savings for his mortgage, but I cant see there being any record of that in the fact 
find.
Mr Ss attitude to risk and the advice
In the absence of any information or evidence to show how Mr Ss attitude to risk was 
assessed, I have to take into account what is known about his circumstances, what 
he has told us and consider whether the investments recommended were right for 
him. I asked Mr S about this and he told us his recollection that he was not willing to 
take much risk with his money.
The information I have about Mr S is that he was employed, had a mortgage plus  I 
assume  the usual household outgoings, was repaying a credit card debt which was 
to finish shortly. Mr S was employed at the time of both sales and earning £9,360  
or £780 a month gross. Theres no note of his net income.
When both policies were running the premiums were £85 per month. Ignoring the 
short-term repayment for the credit card bill, Mr S was paying £220 for his mortgage, 
£25 for his life assurance policies and £41 in pension contributions. So, he had 
known monthly outgoings of £371 without taking into account essential household 
outgoings. The two Savings Programmes premiums represented nearly 11% of his 
gross income.
Mr S did apply for an earnings replacement programme for £550 per month in July 
1990  which he didnt take up. And while that requested programme payment of 
£550 per month may not have been a true reflection of Mr Ss net monthly income, I 
think its likely it was at least the minimum Mr S thought he could live on if he wasnt 
able to work. So, taking this into account, and the fact that the premiums represented 
around 15% of £550, Ive not been given anything to suggest that the policies were 
unaffordable for him.
The factfind records that Mr S didnt have any savings or investments at the time and 
that is his recollection also. And without any experience, this suggests that Mr S 
would have been reliant upon the advice given to him by Sanlams adviser.Mr S has told us that he was looking to save. And in some instances, a first-time 
saver might be willing to take some level of risk with their savings for the potential of 
capital growth. Its not always the case that a first-time saver isnt willing to take much 
risk. But bearing in mind this was Mr Ss first time investing, he didnt have any 
savings to fall back on and that he told us he didnt want to take any risk and, I dont 
think its unlikely he would have erred on the side of caution in order to build up his 
savings  via investment  in the first instance.
However, I cant know this for sure and Ive equally borne in mind Mr S was relatively 
young and the Savings Programmes were for the longer term, so potentially Mr S 
could have been willing to take some level of risk over those terms.
Ive reviewed The Savings Programme document which says;
The longer you keep contributing, the more you will have paid in and, if 
investment values move ahead as expected, your accumulated savings will 
be worth more. The Programme is designed to grow steadily with the 
optimum benefit and worth being realised after about 25 years.
Remember you are saving for the long term and it will be some time before 
the value of your units exceeds the contributions you have made.
Ive borne this in mind when considering whether it was right for Mr S to be advised 
to invest into the Savings Programmes taking into account all of his circumstances. 
And based on the evidence I have and Mr Ss recollections, I dont believe any 
reasonable attempt was made by the adviser to know its customer. It wasnt fully 
established what Mr Ss other financial expenses were or if he had the capacity to 
hold the policies which would the above makes clear would need to be retained for at 
least 25 years to show a worthwhile return over other shorter term priorities 
particularly bearing in mind that because of his relatively young age, it wasnt 
unforeseeable that his circumstances may have changed.
And while there will be a point at which an investor undertakes investment decisions 
for the first time, Im not satisfied, on the balance of probabilities that these Savings 
Programmes were appropriate or suitable recommendations for Mr S.
Mr S has said that other more suitable options werent discussed. And in particular 
he referred to the Investment Programme. But my aim isnt to consider what 
alternatives may have been available but to look at whether the recommendations 
and investments that were made for him were suitable for his needs.
In its response to Mr Ss complaint it says the policies were sold on a non-qualifying 
basis and without any life assurance. But the Programme Schedule Ive seen for both 
policies states that the savings programmes provided an investment benefit and a life 
assurance benefit. And I note that Mr S was already paying monthly premiums for 
two life assurance policies at the time of the first sales.
At the time Mr S took out the first policy he had no financial dependants in need of 
life cover and was married when he took the second policy. However, in the absence 
of knowing otherwise, I accept he may have needed those two earlier policies for 
mortgage purposes. But he had his mortgage set up by the time he received advice 
from Sanlam and I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr S wanted to increase the 
benefit payable upon his death so I would question why the Savings Programmes, 
with the implicit increase in the costs of the premiums to cover the life assurance element of the policies, was thought to be the best option for him. They included a 
cost in the premiums for life assurance, a benefit he already had in place.
Both of the Savings Programmes were initially 100% invested into the MI Managed 
Fund. The fund description in January 1990 was The Fund is managed for growth 
and consists of a substantial property element, UK and international equities and 
fixed interest securities. There is no mention of Sanlams own risk rating of the fund, 
but the constituents of the fund suggest the risk imposed in investing were higher 
than low risk and I am aware that several years later, Sanlam did rate the risk for the 
fund as medium.
I note Mr S did switch his funds 70% into MI Gartmore Pacific Growth Fund and 30% 
into MI Baring Eastern Fund in 1994. But that was four years after the initial sales, so 
I dont think that action has a bearing on what he was advised at the times of 
investment.
While I accept these two Savings Programmes were sold over 30 years ago, the 
documentation provided by Sanlam from the time of the sales doesnt indicate that 
Mr Ss lack of investment experience, circumstances or his investment and savings 
objectives were properly considered.
While I do accept that the prudent advice was for Mr S to commit to savings  since it 
is documented he had no savings or available spare capital at all  I am not 
persuaded that it has been shown it was suitable to propose two policies with 
exposure to an underlying fund comprising property, UK and international equities 
and stock market exposure which needed to remain in force over the very long term 
in order to give Mr S worthwhile returns.
So even though I am satisfied that Mr S could potentially to pay the monthly 
contributions of £85 for savings, I think the Savings Programmes were inflexible and I 
dont think they were structured to meet Mr Ss likely needs and potential alterations 
to his circumstances  which did change between the first and second sale when he 
got married  over a shorter term than 25 years.
And while I accept that the policies provided the opportunity for Mr S to save, this 
could have been achieved without the addition of life assurance and the implicit 
costs. Its difficult to conclude that the Savings Programmes were right for him  he 
already had two life assurance policy and he could have achieved savings growth 
without the need or costs the further life policies.
So, taking all of the above into account, I have provisionally decided that Mr Ss 
complaint should succeed.
To put things right I provisionally said Sanlam should compare the performance of the two 
Savings Programmes with the Bank of England base rate over the period. 
Mr S responded to say he didnt have anything further to add.
Sanlam wasnt happy with the proposed outcome. It said;
The policies were still partly in force, which would indicate the terms werent 
unsuitable. As Mr S had made several partial surrenders demonstrates the flexibility 
of the product and that his money wasnt locked away.
Mr Ss policies were non qualifying and the bare minimum life cover of £100 was applied as demanded by the regulator. This would lead to a miniscule impact on 
growth. As soon as the policy achieved a positive value equal to the amount of cover 
there would be no further life cover costs to Mr S.
The Managed Fund was rated in accordance with whatever rules were in place at the 
time. It wasnt for this service to decide years later that it wasnt correct. Any change 
to the rating could have been due to alterations in regulations and the investments 
held. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sanlam has said that as the policies were still in force this suggested they werent unsuitable 
for Mr S and because of the partial surrenders, they were flexible. I agree that by Mr S still 
having segments of the Programmes still running may suggest that Mr S wasnt dissatisfied 
with them. But I dont think that adds anything to the question of whether they were suitable 
at the outset. They were designed to be long term investments  over 25 years  and I didnt 
think that in itself was right for Mr S bearing in mind his personal and financial circumstances 
and young age of 28 years. And it was clear his circumstances had significantly changed by 
the time of the second sale as he had gotten married and was looking to move to a new 
house. 
Sanlam has clarified the cost of the life assurance element of the policies. And I understand 
that a minimum life cover would have had a limited impact on the growth. 
I accept that the MI Managed Fund wasnt risk rated by Sanlam at the times of the sales. 
And the fact that the risk rating may have increased later could have been due to changes in 
regulations or the underlying investments. However in my provisional decision I also said 
that at the time of the investment in 1990 Sanlams description of the fund was The Fund is 
managed for growth and consists of a substantial property element, UK and international 
equities and fixed interest securities and that the constituents of the fund suggested that the 
risk imposed was higher than low risk. 
While I accept Sanlams comment that its own risk rating of the Fund was after the sales, but 
I dont find my comment that I thought it likely that the Fund exposed Mr S to a higher than 
low risk to be unfair. The investment into property was recorded as being substantial which 
suggests a material investment held within the Fund. Property can be an illiquid asset class 
making it difficult to sell quickly at the right price and property values can be volatile. The 
equity element would have exposed Mr S to the potential of stock market investment risk 
and the overseas element of the equity exposure could have posed additional risks such as 
currency fluctuations. 
I also said that without any investment experience, Mr S would have been reliant on the 
adviser. As this was Mr Ss first venture and he didnt have any savings to fall back on, I 
didnt think it unlikely that he would have wanted to err on the side of caution and his 
recollection is that he didnt want to take much risk. So, I think its questionable whether the 
MI Managed Fund  with its apparent risk exposure of the underlying investment  was right 
for Mr S. 
So, Sanlams comments havent caused me to change my mind on the outcome of Mr Ss 
complaint. Overall, taking all of the above into account and my provisional decision Mr Ss 
complaint should be upheld. Putting things right
To put the matter right, Sanlam needs to do the following;
For both of the Savings Programmes, which are still in operation, Sanlam should pay 
compensation of D + E, where:
A = a refund each of the monthly premiums paid to both programmes for the 
respective start dates to the dates of settlement;
B = a return on each premium in A at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded 
yearly, from the date it was paid to the dates of settlement;
C = the value of the policies at the dates of settlement;
D = (A + B) - C = the investment loss (if appropriate) at the dates of settlement ;
And;
E = interest at 8% per cent per year simple on D from the dates of surrender to the 
date the redress is paid.
Compensation for capital growth on the policy premiums in B is not usually subject to 
income tax. However, if Sanlam considers that tax is payable on the interest, it should send 
a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr S may reclaim any tax overpaid from HM 
Revenue and Customs if his tax status allows him to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited 
should put matters right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman