DRN-3828506
The complaint
Mr U complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money he lost when he was the victim of 
a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In early 2022 Mr U was the victim of a Forex investment scam. He made various 
international payments from his Monzo bank account to the scammer via another firm that 
specialises in currency exchange and international payments:
Date (time) Type Amount
9 March 2022 (2:51pm) Faster payment £385
9 March 2022 (8:55pm) Faster payment £1,172.80
17 March 2022 Faster payment £1,531.61
25 March 2022 Faster payment £2,825.85
31 March 2022 Faster payment £1,914.93
8 April 2022 Faster payment £6,448
Total: £14,278.19
Mr U became aware hed been scammed when he had difficulty withdrawing the funds and 
reported it to Monzo in May 2022. Monzo said they were unable to refund the money as it 
didnt qualify due to the payments being sent internationally. They also told Mr U no money 
remained in the account with the receiving bank so it couldnt be returned. 
Mr U complained to Monzo but their decision didnt change. They reiterated they can only 
look into refunding transfers sent to a UK account and, as these payments were sent 
internationally, they dont qualify for a refund. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman and our investigator thought it 
should be upheld in part. She said, although the payments were higher than what Mr U 
typically made on his account, she didnt think it was unreasonable for Monzo not to have 
intervened until the final payment (which was significantly higher). Our investigator thought 
the final payment was sufficiently unusual and so, it ought to have prompted Monzo to have 
spoken with Mr U about it before processing it. Had they done so, asking appropriate 
questions about the nature of the investment opportunity, they wouldve become aware Mr U 
came cross it via a dating app. So, she thought the scam wouldve been identified and the 
final payment prevented from being sent. Because of this, our investigator recommended 
Monzo refund £6,448 and add 8% simple interest. 
Although Mr U hoped for the full refund of his money, he accepted our investigators 
recommendation. 
Monzo however disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, 
they said:
The payment wasnt flagged as unusual and customers are allowed to make irregular 
payments and use their account as they wish. 
As the options available to consumers and business grow, they must balance what is 
reasonable to allow with large payments. And they cannot flag every irregular 
payment as this creates blockers for customers with day-to-day spending. 
They have internal processes in place to identify genuinely risky payments from the 
mass of irregular payments  those that do flag are reviewed appropriately. The 
system they use is sufficient an in line with regulation.
Its for them to decide how they choose to configure their detection systems  striking 
the balance between allowing their customers to transact business and question 
transactions to confirm theyre legitimate. 
The payments arent covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM).
They sympathise with Mr Us situation but had he contacted them about the payment 
or read literature they have online then they couldve supported him appropriately.
Before I go on to explain the reasons for my decision, Id like to clarify that Im only looking at 
the scam payments made from Mr Us Monzo bank account. Mr U is aware that other 
cryptocurrency payments he made to the scammer wont be considered as part of my 
decision  so I wont be commenting on them here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr U has been the victim of a scam and the impact this has had on him. I know 
Mr U was hoping for the full sum he lost to be refunded but, after giving this matter careful 
consideration, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for similar reasons. Ill 
explain why.
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams. But the CRM Code only applies to 
payments made between two accounts held in the UK  and both accounts must be 
denominated in pounds sterling. This means, as Mr Us payments were sent internationally, 
theyre not covered under the CRM code. Ive therefore considered whether Monzo should 
reimburse Mr U under any of their other obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises them to make. Here, it isnt disputed that 
Mr U knowingly made the payments from his Monzo account. I appreciate Mr U was tricked 
by the scammer as he thought it was a genuine investment opportunity. Nevertheless, Im 
satisfied the payments were authorised by Mr U. So, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account, Monzo are expected to process the 
payments and Mr U is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Monzo to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr U to Monzo (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual in relation to his typical account activity.
Having looked at Mr Us account usage before the scam occurred, it was typically used for 
low value day to day spending  transactions below £100. So, the payments Mr U made to 
the scammer were greater than how he typically used his account. But, as Monzo has 
pointed out, it isnt unusual for people to make less frequent payments from time to time for 
one off expenses. And so, I understand Monzos argument around them finding the balance 
between allowing customers to be able to use their account and questioning transactions to 
confirm theyre legitimate.
At which point, Id like to clarify that Im not telling Monzo how to operate in respect of their 
wider detection systems. Im also not saying that Monzo is expected to flag every irregular 
payment. Instead, Im only looking at Mr Us specific circumstances here and whether I 
consider the payments were of such an unusual nature  based on typical account usage  
that it ought to have prompted Monzo to consider whether he was at risk of financial harm 
from fraud.  
Ive thought carefully about this and I dont think the first five payments were so unusual or 
out of character that Id have expected Monzo to have intervened at the time. The payments 
werent in quick succession and, except for the first payment which was of a low value, they 
were of a similar amount (between £1,000 and £3,000). But I think the final payment ought to 
have been considered by Monzo as unusual and out of character based on Mr Us typical 
account activity. This is because the payment amount was significantly higher, more than 
double what hed previously sent. The amounts had gradually increased over time (which 
can be an indicator of investment scams). And when Monzo processed this payment 
unchallenged, it took the series of payments to over £14,000, being sent internationally, to a 
relatively new payee, in the space of one month. 
I therefore think Monzo ought to have held this payment and contacted Mr U. Had Monzo 
done so, I think its likely Mr U wouldve explained the purpose of the transfer  that being for 
Forex investment. At which point, given Monzo have a greater understanding of the risk of 
scams of this type, it wouldve been reasonable to expect Monzo to have questioned Mr U 
about this, such as how he came across this opportunity. If this happened, I think Mr U 
wouldve explained how the investment opportunity arose through a recommendation from a 
person he was messaging on a dating app. 
This wouldve been a red flag and so I think, at this point, Monzo ought to have highlighted to 
Mr U that there was a significant risk of it being a scam. Monzo couldve also advised Mr U 
to carry out further research on the firm and questioned why he wasnt using one that was 
based in the UK (which provided the regulatory protection for firms authorised by the 
Financial Conduct Authority). 
Ive also thought about whether Mr U did enough to protect himself from the scam. Mr U has 
said that, prior to make the payments, he researched the company and it appeared ok. Ive 
also considered that, in the early stages of the investment scam, Mr U tested the withdrawal 
process and requested $100. Although there was an issue with the fund withdrawal, he did 
receive it as cryptocurrency payment. So, I think its understandable Mr U was reassured by 
receiving the cryptocurrency withdrawal  thereby prompting him to invest further. Had Mr U 
received the scam warning or advice from Monzo though, then I think this wouldve most 
likely prompted him to have attempted a more meaningful withdrawal before proceeding with 
further payments (including the final one he made). At which point, Mr U wouldve run into 
the same problems he eventually did when the scam came to light. Because of this, I think  had Monzo intervened  Mr U wouldnt have sent the final 
payment. And after taking everything into consideration, although I think Mr U couldve 
potentially carried out further checks, I dont think he was grossly negligent or negligent to an 
extent that it would be fair and reasonable to reduce the award based on contributory 
negligence in the circumstances of this complaint. 
It follows that, to put things right, I think Monzo should refund the £6,448 payment. And, as 
the funds Mr U sent to the scammer came from a personal current account he held with a 
different banking provider, I think 8% simple interest should be applied for the loss of use of 
money during this time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund the £6,448 payment.
Pay 8% simple interest calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman