DRN-3379708
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have unfairly 
declined their buildings insurance claim. 
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
RSA have ultimately declined the claim as it says the cause of the cracking was due 
to the foundations depth being insufficient. 
The policy says it excludes damage caused by faulty workmanship, poor design or 
defective materials.
The original planning application, and subsequent correspondence and plans, 
between the builder, previous homeowner and Building Control, show the 
foundations were supposed to be made to extend to 2.2m.
RSAs investigations show the foundation depths only extended to 930mm. So I think 
its reasonable to say the exclusion operates in the circumstances.
However, Ive also considered whether its fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
for RSA to decline the claim.
The extension work was completed around four years prior to Mr and Mrs M 
purchasing the property. Mr and Mrs M have provided all of the available 
documentation requested by their solicitor during the purchase period. This includes 
planning applications and correspondence between the builder and the local 
authoritys Building Control.
I can also see the plans submitted were signed off and a completion certificate 
issued by Building Control.
RSA said this wasnt enough, and Mr and Mrs M shouldve commissioned a pre 
purchase survey  which may have highlighted the settlement at the time. 
But it wasnt a requirement for Mr and Mrs M to do this. And although it may have 
highlighted issues, it also may have not. Mr and Mrs M have reported the cracking 
didnt become visible until around nine years after purchase, and I cant see anything 
from the information available at the time of purchase that wouldve reasonably given 
them cause for concern or prompted them to carry out further investigations. 
So, in the circumstances, I dont think it is fair and reasonable for the RSA to rely on 
the exclusion it has. So, I think it should now proceed with the claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
RSA should now proceed with the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
To put things right, I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do as Ive set above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman