DRN-3375726
The complaint
Mr R complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has declined two building insurance claims he
made and unfairly increased his premium at renewal.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr R raised a claim with AXA when he noticed water was backing up in two
of his toilets. He used his home emergency cover to get someone out to unblock them. Mr R
says the contractor also advised him that the blockage was caused by a collapsed drain.
AXA appointed a contractor to go out to carry out a site visit. The contractor went out but
was unable to gain access as no-one was home. It then tried to reschedule the visit but had
difficulty in contacting Mr R. Mr R called AXA and said he was looking to get his own
contractor to look at the problem instead; AXA asked him to send it any quotes he received.
Mr R then called AXA about a week later and said that he wanted to send his quote over and
asked AXA to liaise with his brother about doing so. Two weeks later, Mr R called AXA to
see if itd received his quote; AXA said it hadnt. Mr R called AXA again on 10 January 2020
about the quotes but AXA said it hadnt received them so it sent an email from its own email
address so Mr R could reply to it and make sure the quote was attached. Mr R also said he
wanted to discuss his renewal quote which hed just received. AXA chased Mr R again about
a week later as itd still not received his quote for the drain repairs.
AXAs contractor said itd attended site again but there was no one home since when itd
been trying to call Mr R to rebook with no success. AXA then closed its file. On 25 February
2020 it received Mr Rs quote for £2,100 for the drain repairs. The quote referred to
removing the broken drains shown on the CCTV survey. AXA asked Mr R for a copy of the
CCTV survey before accepting the claim. When AXA heard nothing further from Mr R it
closed his claim.
Also in October 2019, Mr R raised a claim with AXA for storm damage. Mr R said water was
getting in upstairs. AXA accepted that there had been storm conditions and arranged for
drone survey of Mr Rs roof to take place. On assessing the footage, AXA told Mr R it
thought it showed evidence of storm damage so it appointed a contractor to attend and
provide a report detailing the cause of the damage to the roof, an estimate for the patch
repairs along with an estimate for the internal work required to two rooms affected by water
ingress.
Scaffolding was erected from which the surveyor was able to inspect the roof. In February
2020 the surveyor reported to AXA that there were a small number of dislodged tiles but
there was also a leak around an original cast iron skylight (approximately 100 years old).
The surveyor thought the damage to the roof was due to wear and tear. He also noted that
most of the damp was the result of mortar deterioration on the parapet walls, ridge, and
chimney. The surveyor recommended the roof  which he assessed to be the original one 
needed to be replaced as no guarantee could be given for any repairs.
AXA declined Mr Rs claim for storm damage on the grounds itd been caused by wear and
tear (not storm) which was specifically excluded under the policy. It said the storm conditions
had highlighted pre-existing issues with the roof.
Mr R disagreed with AXAs decision. AXA said that it had no reason to doubt the conclusions
of its surveyor but said that if Mr R wanted to get a report of his own about what had caused
the damage then it would consider it.
On receiving his renewal documents Mr R noted his premium had more than doubled so he
decided to shop around, eventually taking out insurance with another provider.
Upon being told by AXA that it wouldnt be covering his claim for storm damage, Mr R
complained. He said that he thought his decision to decline AXAs renewal offer had affected
his claims. He said the surveyor hadnt inspected the roof properly and had only been
interested in getting him to agree to a new roof. Mr R said he wanted the roof inspected by
another surveyor. And he said the damage to the bedroom had been caused as a result of
the slate tile moving in the bad weather. Mr R also complained that one of AXAs contractors
had broken into the rear of his property through the side gate, leaving it open. Mr R said the
contractor didnt have his permission to do so and, as he had CCTV of the incident, he was
referring it to the police before taking legal action.
AXA issued its final response to Mr Rs complaint in mid-March 2020 but didnt uphold it. It
said it was satisfied that its decision to decline Mr Rs storm claim was in line with the policy
terms and conditions but it repeated that should Mr R wish to provide a report of his own
then it would consider it. With regard to Mr Rs complaint that a contractor had trespassed,
AXA said it took such allegations very seriously and asked Mr R to forward his CCTV
footage and police report.
Mr R then brought a complaint to this service. He told our investigator that the contractor had
left some slate tiles in the gutter that had since fallen down and nearly hit his sister. Mr R
said too that his health was suffering as a result of the damp conditions.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and recommended that it was upheld in part.
She said she thought AXA had treated Mr R fairly and reasonably in the way itd assessed
his claim for drain damage and in the way itd handled his complaint about its contractor
trespassing. She noted that, in relation to the storm claim, AXA had told Mr R that there was
evidence (from the drone footage) of storm damage to the roof. And she said that she
thought AXAs surveyor had carried out a satisfactory inspection of the roof and was able to
form an expert opinion about the damage.
Our investigator went on to say that AXAs offer for Mr R to obtain his own report was also
fair. But she said that, on assessing the surveyors report she hadnt found it overly
persuasive and she thought the damage to the tiles hadnt been fairly assessed.
Consequently she didnt think the storm damage claim had been fairly assessed at all and
she thought the areas of internal damage were consistent with the areas of external
damage. So she said that it was fair to think the internal damage was the result of water
ingress as a result of the storm.
With regard to Mr Rs complaint about the increased price AXA offered him at renewal, our
investigator said that Mr R hadnt been obliged to accept it and was free to shop around for a
more competitive quote, which hed done. And she said there was no evidence that his
claims had been declined because hed not renewed his policy.
Our investigator recommended that AXA settle the claim for the roof tiles and internal
damage and pay Mr R compensation of £400 for the length of time the claim had taken and
the conditions hed had to live in.
AXA responded to say that it didnt accept it was liable in any way for the damage claimedbut said it accepted the compensation recommendation of £400 for material inconvenience
caused. Mr R said that he thought AXA should have to pay more compensation for declining
to accept what our investigator had recommended and for the damage to his health. Mr R
said that AXA had a final opportunity to reach an agreement with him before he took legal
action. He said he didnt see how providing a full report about the roof would change
anything, that there was now a crack in his kitchen and that he objected to our investigators
findings in relation to his drainage claim.
Our investigator advised that as Mr R hadnt complained to AXA about his health issues she
was unable to look at that issue for him within the confines of this complaint.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 also 
recommending that the complaint was upheld in part but for different reasons to our 
investigator. I made the following provisional findings: 
Storm claim
As both Mr R and AXA are aware, this service has a long-standing approach to assessing
complaints concerning storm damage claims. We ask 3 questions, the answer to all of which
must be yes if we are to agree that a storm claim has been unfairly declined. The questions
are:
1. Were there storm conditions around the date the damage was said to have
occurred?
2. Is the damage being claimed for consistent with the damage a storm typically
causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
AXA has accepted there were storm conditions around the time Mr R discovered damage to
his roof. So I dont need to consider this question any further and I accept the answer to this
question is yes.
There are several different areas of damage to Mr Rs roof  slipped tiles, mortar
deterioration and a leaking skylight. I think that slipped tiles are a type of damage that can be
consistent with the sort of damage a storm typically causes.
I dont think that a leaking skylight is typically the kind of damage a storm could cause. I say
this because a well-maintained skylight should be more than capable of withstanding the sort
of storm conditions we see in this country. From the pictures Ive seen, and the comment
from the surveyor that the skylight appeared to be 100 years old, I think the skylight seems
to have reached the end of its useful life and the storm merely highlighted existing issues it
had. I can see the cast iron surround is badly rusted and isnt flush to the roof tiles. One of
the panes of glass appears to be cracked and the edge where the glass sits in the frame
appears rusted and degenerated. So I think the damage to the skylight can reasonably be
attributed to wear and tear rather than the storm. Damage caused by wear and tear is
excluded under the policy so I dont think AXA has unreasonably declined this aspect of
Mr Rs claim.
Nor do I think that mortar deterioration can be fairly said to be the type of damage a storm
would cause. That is damage that occurs over a long period of time. So I dont think that the
leaking skylight or the mortar deterioration that AXAs surveyor reported (to the parapet,
ridge tiles and chimney) can reasonably be said to be consistent with the type of damage a
storm typically causes. So the answer to the second question is yes to the damage to the
tiles but no for the leaking skylight and mortar deterioration.AXA initially said to Mr R that there was evidence of storm damage to the roof noted from
the drone survey. It then appointed a surveyor to undertake a cause of damage report, patch
repairs and an estimate for the internal repairs required as a result of the water ingress.
AXAs surveyor is the only expert to have inspected the roof, consequently it wouldnt be
reasonable of me to disregard what he reported to AXA. And, as Ive set out above, he noted
a small number of tiles had been dislodged. Given there had been storm conditions, that this
is the type of damage normally associated with that which is typically caused by a storm, the
locality of Mr Rs home (it was three stories high, on a hill and close to the coast) and the
fact the roof appears from the photographs to have been reasonably well maintained, I think
that the storm can reasonably be said to have caused the damage to the tiles.
But AXAs surveyor, other than noting that there were a few slipped tiles, makes no further
comment about this aspect of the damage. So whilst it wasnt unreasonable for AXA to have
declined other aspects of the noted damage, I dont think it has reasonably declined to
accept that the storm, more likely than not, caused a few of the tiles on Mr Rs roof to have
slipped. It follows that I think it needs to settle this aspect of the claim.
Turning now to the internal damage, I can see that AXA has declined to cover it. Its surveyor
reported that most of the (internal) damp issues have been caused by the mortar
deterioration Ive set out above. In the absence of any expert evidence to the contrary, I cant
fairly ignore what he says about this. That wouldnt be reasonable.
Having reviewed Mr Rs policy schedule, I can see that AXA provided cover for his buildings
but his policy didnt include additional accidental damage cover. If additional accidental
damage cover has been selected by a consumer then this service can require an insurer to
consider any internal damage under this part of a policy  even where a storm claim has
been declined. Without this cover though, Im unable to consider the internal damage Mr Rs
property experienced under this section of the policy. That means that, for me to make AXA
settle Mr Rs claim for the internal damage caused by the ingress of water to the bedrooms, I
would have to be satisfied that it was predominantly caused by the storm. Unfortunately for
Mr R, Im not so persuaded.
I say that because AXAs surveyor has said the damp issues are the result the mortar
deterioration he noted. Ive explained above why I think this damage wasnt caused by the
storm. As I think it wasnt, it follows that any secondary damage the mortar deterioration
caused isnt covered either. Ive seen no evidence that the internal damage was the result of
the few slipped tiles damaged by the storm. I think its reasonable to find that the internal
damage was the result of the pre-existing issues with the mortar highlighted, rather than
caused by, the storm. So, with regret for the disappointment I know this part of my decision
will cause him, I dont think I can reasonably require AXA to settle Mr Rs claim for the
internal damage to his home.
I know that Mr R has said that AXAs surveyor was inadequate and that it should send out
another one but I cant agree. The surveyors comments about the cause of damage and the
condition of the roof are supported by the photographs Ive reviewed. So theres no
reasonable grounds for me to require it to send a second surveyor out. I think AXA has done
all it reasonably needs to do to assess whats damaged Mr Rs home. And I can see too that
its invited him to get his own expert report into the cause of damage if he wants it to review
his claim; that seems reasonable to me. I know that Mr R says he cant see the point of that
as he cant see how it would change anything. But if Mr R was to get a report that credibly
explained why the damage to the skylight and mortar deterioration was the result of a single
identifiable storm event, then AXA has said it would review it.
In summary, in relation to the storm claim, I think that AXA has unfairly failed to settle the
part of Mr Rs claim related to the slipped tiles But I dont think its unfairly declined all theother aspects of this claim on the grounds that the damage was the result of wear and tear
which was excluded under the policy terms. It follows that I think it should settle Mr Rs storm
claim for the slipped tiles
Underground drainage claim
Ive set out above, in some detail, the sequence of events surrounding this claim. AXA
agreed to Mr R getting his own quote and, from the evidence Ive seen, the difficulty in
sending it in doesnt appear to have been the fault of AXA. And once it did receive it AXA
noted that thered been a CCTV survey of the damaged drain. Not unreasonably, AXA
wanted to validate the claim so asked Mr R for a copy of the survey. When that wasnt
forthcoming AXA closed the claim and treated it as withdrawn. I dont think that was unfair.
Insurers must be allowed to validate the claims that are brought to them and Im satisfied
from the evidence Ive seen that this was what AXA was trying to do. I can see that it gave
Mr R every opportunity to comply with its request for assistance in doing so. It follows that I
dont think it unreasonably declined this claim when the information it sought wasnt
forthcoming. Whilst I appreciate that Mr R disagrees, I dont propose to make AXA do
anything more in respect of this claim.
Policy renewal
I can see that Mr Rs policy renewed in early January 2020 and that AXA sent him a renewal
pack inviting him to renew for another year a few weeks before that. I can see the premium
had almost trebled.
Prior to either the drainage or storm claims being formally declined, Mr R had decided not to
proceed with the renewal terms offered by AXA and had secured cover from another
provider in the market, presumably at a cheaper price to that being offered by AXA. As part
of his complaint to AXA about the claims though, Mr R said that he thought his decision to
decline AXAs renewal offer had led to it deciding to decline his claims. Ive seen no
evidence that this is what happened.
The risk of insuring Mr Rs home is AXAs to take on so it will decide how to assess it and
will charge a price accordingly. Each year, AXA is entitled to reassess its risk factors when
setting the price of its policies. So, prices can go up or down, depending on what it thinks the
risks are that year for all of its customers. We wont normally say whether a product
represents good value for money. And we generally accept that insurers can charge what
they like for insurance so long as they act fairly. In simple terms, that means that they should
apply their chosen pricing model consistently provided the consumer has flexibility to shop
around and change insurer if they wish. I can see that at the point the renewal price offered
became unacceptable to him that is what Mr R has done. So, Im satisfied thats the case
here.
Unauthorised access by contractor
Whilst I dont know the circumstances of what happened, its my role to decide whether AXA
treated Mr R fairly and reasonably when he raised his complaint about one of AXAs
contractors gaining access without his authority; I think it did. I can see that it took Mr Rs
concerns very seriously and asked him to provide the evidence of the trespass he said he
had  CCTV and a police report  and it would review it. I think that was a fair and
reasonable approach for AXA to have taken to the allegation Mr R made; it couldnt know for
sure what had happened but asked Mr R to share the evidence of the incident he had with it.
Unfortunately I cant see that Mr R ever did share the evidence with AXA so it was unable to
review it or take any further action. I think AXAs offer to investigate further, on provision of
the evidence, was a reasonable response to this complaint. Im not going to make it do any
more.Compensation
All insurance claims, by their very nature, attract a certain level of inconvenience; thats to be
expected. But where an insurer, through its words or actions, makes and already stressful
situation worse, then this service can require it to pay a consumer some compensation.
Here I can see our investigator recommended that AXA pay Mr R compensation of £400
because Mr R had been left in his property with a leaking roof and worsening internal damp
leading to him suffering from chest infections. Our investigator thought that AXAs decision to
decline the storm claim in full impacted Mr R and his family and left them in unpleasant living
conditions.
As Ive set out above, I do think that AXA unfairly declined to settle the aspect of the storm
claim relating to the damaged tiles. But Ive seen no evidence that a few slipped tiles caused
the internal damage reported by Mr R. As Ive said, I dont think the rest of the damage was
caused by the storm. That means Im unable to agree that the unpleasant living conditions
were the result of any failing on AXAs part. They were the result of the leaking roof which, in
turn, was the result of wear and tear.
I do think that AXAs handling of the claim and its failure to accept the part that was covered
by the policy has caused Mr R some inconvenience though. And whilst it is likely that I
wouldnt have awarded as much as £400 in compensation, I note that AXA has accepted our
investigators findings in this respect on the grounds its actions caused Mr R material
inconvenience. That being the case, I dont propose to alter the amount of compensation
AXA is required to pay to Mr R.
Ive noted Mr Rs more recent comments that he was seeking an increase to the amount of
compensation because AXA had caused a delay by not accepting our investigators findings
meaning he and his family had been left without full use of the property and consequential
health issues. And Ive noted that his comments that his photographs of the internal damage
show that repairs are urgent. I dont disagree that the photographs indicate that the repairs
are urgent but I cant agree that AXA is liable to undertake them. And AXA is entitled to ask
for a complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision so its not done anything wrong
by declining to accept our investigators findings.
Miscellaneous
Mr R says hes recently found a crack in kitchen. He says hes told AXA but its done nothing
about it. I cant see that Mr R has raised a complaint with AXA about this issue so Im unable
to look at it for him here. If he wishes to complain about it he must first do so to AXA directly
so it may have the opportunity to investigate it.
Ive thought about too about Mr Rs comment that AXAs has withheld information but Ive
seen no evidence that it has.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part and require AXA
Insurance UK Plc to settle Mr Rs claim for storm damage to the slipped tiles on his roof and
to pay him compensation of £400 for the inconvenience its decision to decline this aspect of
his claim caused him.
AXA hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision. Mr R replied on the same day 
the provisional decision was sent to him and said that he thought it contained large inaccuracies. He also said that he needed longer to reply than we had given him. He said 
that information hed given us and AXA had been mis-recorded and lost and that he would 
provide his full statement to us as soon as possible.
Our investigator responded to say that no information Mr R had provided had been lost or 
mis-recorded. She also said that shed spoken to me and that Id agreed he could take a 
further week to provide his response. Mr R replied to say that he would respond in full 
highlighting where he believed information had been lost or misunderstood. He said he also 
wanted an update on AXAs response. Mr R also said that the provisional decision 
downgraded the severity of his situation and had failed to fully assess the extent of what had 
happened. Specifically he mentioned the window in the roof which, he said, was nowhere 
near the area in question. He said the roofer that attended wasnt a surveyor. And he also 
said hed provide a report from his own assessment of the roof from the time he first reported 
the issue. 
A couple of weeks after providing these comments, Mr R contacted our investigator to ask if 
AXA had replied and what itd said. Our investigator said it hadnt. A week and a half after 
that Mr R again asked our investigator if AXA had replied and what itd said. He also said 
there had ben some ill health in his family (which Mr R said he was able to evidence) so he 
was requesting a further extension of time to respond. Mr R also said he would be happy if 
we could assist in resolving the situation with AXA but if we couldnt he would pursue legal 
action.
Having referred Mr Rs request for more time to respond to me, I agreed with our investigator 
that he could take a further week. Regrettably that wasnt conveyed to Mr R until a further 
week had passed, however, another week has passed since then so Im satisfied that Mr R 
has been provided with sufficient time  5 weeks  in which to respond to my provisional 
decision should he have wished to do so. I also asked our investigator to ask Mr R to provide 
the evidence about the ill health in his family that he had offered. Our investigator explained 
to Mr R too that indefinite extensions couldnt be given as we had to be fair to both parties 
and it was unfair to make one party wait indefinitely for a final decision. 
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Five weeks has now passed since I issued my provisional decision  I think thats a 
reasonable time period to allow further comment should either party want to provide any. 
Unfortunately the full response Mr R intimated would be provided, along with the report from 
his own roofer, has not arrived and theres no indication when it might do so.
Mr R hasnt explained what inaccuracies he believed my provisional decision contained but I 
repeat here what I said provisionally, which is that I looked at all the evidence provided when 
making my findings. As our investigator explained, all documents we receive are scanned to 
our electronic filing system in the format in which they arrive so they cannot be mis-recorded 
or lost. And all the documents provided by Mr R and AXA have been reviewed by me. 
It is an unfortunate fact that at least one party to a dispute  and sometimes both  will be 
unhappy with the outcome reached and the reasons given as to why. That is an inevitable 
consequence of the service we provide. And of course I can appreciate why my provisional 
findings came as a disappointment to Mr R but I explained provisionally why I reached the 
conclusion I did. As Mr R never provided further comment to highlight the inaccuracies he believed my provisional decision contained, Im simply unable to comment any further about 
this issue.
I would like to reassure Mr R that all the evidence provided by both himself and AXA has 
been fully assessed by me. Im afraid I dont understand his comment about the window in 
the roof not being in the area in question so Im unable to provide a comment in response. 
Mr R has said that AXAs expert wasnt a surveyor but was a roofer  but Ive seen no 
documentary evidence in support of this statement. From the evidence Ive seen, I think AXA 
sent out appropriately qualified individuals to assess the damage Mr R had reported. 
As our investigator explained, we are here to look at individual consumer complaints that are 
referred to us and to decide if a business has been fair and reasonable in the way it has 
dealt with a consumer. For the reasons I gave provisionally, I think that AXA didnt treat Mr R 
fairly and reasonably in relation to part of his complaint. But nothing that Mr R has said in 
response to my provisional decision has caused me to change my mind about the findings I 
made. Those provisional findings now form part of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr R I think that AXA should settle his claim for storm damage 
to the slipped tiles on his roof and pay him compensation of £400 for the inconvenience its 
decision to decline this aspect of his claim caused him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
take the steps I set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman