DRN-3474896
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited handled some 
problems he had a with car they supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In November 2020, Volkswagen supplied a car to Mr C under a hire purchase agreement. 
The cash price of the car was £32,880. Mr C used a deposit from part exchanging his 
previous car, which meant £23,030 was financed by the agreement. The car was brand new 
at the time of supply.
Within a couple of days, Mr C took the car back to the dealer as hed noticed a problem with 
its electric battery. Although the dealership carried out a repair, they explained to Mr C that 
the car was waiting for a software update. The dealer also gave Mr C £250 of credit to use in 
a Volkswagen store as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr C told the dealer he was unhappy with the car and had found other problems with the 
infotainment system, the handbrake and a reoccurring concern about the electric battery. 
The dealer offered to inspect the car further. But, in January 2021 Mr C raised a complaint 
with Volkswagen and asked them to consider a replacement.
In their final response to Mr Cs concerns, Volkswagen said that the dealer had offered to 
inspect and repair the car and that a software update was due later in 2021. Volkswagen 
also made a payment to Mr C, for the time hed been without the use of the car and the 
inconvenience caused. However, Volkswagen went on to say they could look into things 
again, if the software update didnt work.
After further discussions with the dealer, Mr C decided to keep the car and booked an 
appointment to update the software in April 2021. Once the update was done, Mr C asked 
Volkswagen to refund the repayments hed made under the agreement from January to April 
2021. Volkswagen agreed to make another payment to Mr C for a spell where he didnt have 
use of the car, but they didnt take any further steps.
Mr C didnt accept that and brought his complaint to us. He wanted Volkswagen to refund 
several other costs he says he incurred due to the repairs needed on the car. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Cs case and found that Volkswagen had treated him fairly. She 
said Volkswagen had already refunded sufficient for the time Mr C didnt have use of the car.
The investigator also found it wouldnt be fair for Volkswagen to refund some of the other 
costs Mr C had asked for payment for. And she said the offer of the £250 credit with 
Volkswagen, was for the dealer to organise.
Mr C didnt agree and said he should receive further compensation from Volkswagen. The 
investigator didnt change her conclusions and Mr Cs complaint has now been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has 
been provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is at the heart of the matter here. Namely: did Volkswagen treat 
Mr C fairly when he told them about the faults hed found with the car? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
The hire purchase agreement
Mr Cs car was supplied to him under a regulated hire purchase agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints about these sorts of contracts. Here, Volkswagen is the 
supplier of the goods under the agreement and is responsible for dealing with a complaint 
about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the contract Mr C entered 
into. The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality, fit for their intended purpose, and as described. 
The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the 
standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the 
description of the goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. In a case involving 
a car, the other relevant circumstances to take into account might include things like the age 
and mileage at the time of supply, and the cars history.
In Mr Cs case, the vehicle was a brand new car with a purchase price of around £32,000. 
So, I think it was reasonable for Mr C to have had high expectations about its quality. In 
other words, I think a reasonable person would expect the car to be fault free.
The faults with the car
Within the first few days of having the car, Mr C contacted the dealer to tell them about a 
fault with the electric battery. Mr C also told the dealer he had experienced other faults with 
the infotainment screen, the handbrake, the keyless entry, the lane assist system and the 
radio. 
I can see from the correspondence between Mr C and the dealer, that the dealer arranged to 
inspect the car and went on to make some repairs. However, the dealer told Mr C that some 
of the faults needed a software update and this was eventually completed in April 2021. I 
can also see the dealer wasnt able to replicate all of the faults that Mr C had identified.
While Mr C waited for the software update, I can see from other correspondence that the 
dealer offered to take the car back from Mr C. The dealer also gave Mr C an illustration of 
costs involved in changing the car for another model. And in an email following the first 
repair, the dealer gave Mr C a credit voucher for £250 to spend with Volkswagen.
Having considered everything, I dont think the car given to Mr C by Volkswagen was fault 
free. I say this because of the work carried out by the dealer and where Mr C needed to wait for the software update. Given that Mr Cs car was brand new at the time and because of its 
other circumstances, I dont think a reasonable person would have considered the car to 
have been of satisfactory quality. So, I think Mr C was due a remedy from Volkswagen.
The CRA sets out the various remedies available in this situation. I think Volkswagen had a 
responsibility to offer a repair, a replacement or to allow Mr C to reject the car. The 
correspondence between the dealer, Volkswagen and Mr C shows that at various points 
after Mr C got the car, all three remedies were discussed. But, on balance, I think all three 
parties agreed on a repair and to wait for the software update in April 2021.
I understand why waiting for a software update to the computer system for a brand new car 
was frustrating for Mr C. But, I think the repairs carried out by the dealer in the interim and 
the completed update a few months later, mean Volkswagen have treated him fairly, given 
their responsibilities to Mr C under the CRA. So, I think the remaining concern for me to 
consider, is to look at the time where Mr C says he couldnt use the car.
The period when Mr C couldnt use the car
The records from Mr C and Volkswagen show that the car was taken in for repairs in 
January 2021, then again in April 2021 for the software update. The records also show that 
Mr C was given a courtesy car when his vehicle was with the dealer for the repairs. So, I 
dont think Mr C was left without the use of a car from November 2020, to the time of the 
software update around five months later.
However, I acknowledge that Mr C didnt have full use of all the benefits and services his car 
came with. So, I agree that Mr C had impaired usage of his car, until the software update 
was complete. 
Volkswagens offer to Mr C was to refund 50% of the monthly repayment due under hire 
purchase agreement in January 2021, then 20% of each repayment until the software had 
been updated. I can see from the account statement of Mr Cs agreement with Volkswagen, 
that he made payments in January, February and March 2021. Volkswagen also agreed to 
refund 50% of the payment Mr C made in April 2021.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, I think Mr C was due to receive £352.64 from 
Volkswagen. I also think that the proportion refunded by Volkswagen is fair and reasonable, 
when looking at the type of fault and the extent to which Mr Cs usage was impaired.
Ive concluded that Mr C was given a courtesy car when his car was with the dealer for 
repair. Ive also considered that he says the courtesy car was of a lower specification than 
his own car. But, having thought about everything, I think Volkswagen treated Mr C fairly 
when they refunded a proportion of the repayments he made under the higher purchase 
agreement.
Distress and inconvenience
Im aware that Mr C needed to take his car to and from the dealership when the repairs and 
the update were needed. I can see where he would have needed to organise his days 
around that and the upheaval that can cause. And I can see where Mr C spoke to the dealer 
and Volkswagen on several occasions to try and figure out a solution to the problems he 
encountered with the car. So, I agree that Volkswagen should consider a payment to Mr C 
for the distress and inconvenience he experienced.
Volkswagens records show that they paid Mr C a total of £446.34. Ive also considered that 
the dealer gave Mr C an additional £250 of credit to spend with Volkswagen. In the round, I think the payments made to Mr C is fair, having looked at the impaired usage he 
experienced with the car and also the distress and inconvenience he encountered.
I acknowledge that Mr C ask Volkswagen to consider refunding the cost of installing an 
electric charging point at his home. But, I think it follows that after accepting the repairs to 
the car, Mr C would have always have needed this facility. So, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to require Volkswagen to pay for the charging point.
I also acknowledge that Mr C says hes had difficulty using the £250 of store credit. There 
may be specific conditions related to the use of this facility. If Mr C is remains unsure about 
those conditions, then it would seem that the dealer may be able to support him further here.
In all the circumstances, I think Volkswagens total offer means theyve treated Mr C fairly 
and I dont think they need to take any further steps to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman