DRN-2942777
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt provided a fair outcome in response to his 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (s.75).
What happened
Mr M bought a car from a dealer. He paid for this in part using his HSBC credit card. He 
experienced issues when he collected the car on 9 January 2020 and contacted the dealer. 
He got a quote for the issues, but the dealer didnt accept this. Mr M experienced further 
issues and contacted the dealer to ask for a refund. This was rejected. Mr M wrote to the 
dealer explaining his grounds for rejecting the car and didnt get a response. He then raised 
a s.75 complaint with HSBC.
Mr M says that he had to make several attempts to get his claim raised and it wasnt until 
July 2020 when the s 75 team contacted him, and he had to resend all his documentation. 
He said there were then further delays and was then asked to provide a repair report. He did 
this and he received a response in January 2021 noting the cost of repairs and the report 
cost and rejecting his request for a full refund. Mr M says he rejected the car on 27 January 
2020, within the first 30 days and so under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), he 
should have received a full refund.
HSBC said that it could decide which was more economical and didnt accept it was required 
to provide Mr M with a full refund. Instead it said it would pay the cost of the repairs 
(£1,417.41) and report (£60).
As Mr M didnt accept HSBCs offer in response to his s.75 claim, he referred his complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator thought that the offer made by HSBC was fair. She said the issues with the 
car were mainly cosmetic and didnt affect Mr Ms ability to drive the car and therefore she 
didnt think rejection would have been proportionate. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He said he bought a car which was found to be 
faulty within the first 30 days and he rejected it within that timeframe. He didnt think that 
HSBC had treated him fairly in regard to how it had dealt with his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under s.75, the consumer has, in certain circumstances, an equal right to claim against the 
credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of 
goods or services.
Mr M bought a car and paid for it in part using his HSBC credit card. He says it wasnt as 
described or of satisfactory quality. HSBC has noted that a part payment was made on 
Mr Ms credit card and based on this it appears that the required debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship is in place and so I find it reasonable that HSBC considered Mr Ms claim.
First I have considered whether the car was misrepresented to Mr M. For a 
misrepresentation to have taken place I need to be satisfied that there was an untrue 
statement of fact made that induced Mr M into purchasing the car. From the details I have 
seen I cannot say there were comments made about the condition of the car which were 
factually incorrect. The dealer has explained that cars are serviced before sale and have a 
12 month MOT. I have seen evidence of work being carried out on the car before it was 
advertised  such as the timing belt, air filter and oil filter being replaced among other things. 
The MOT took place on 26 November 2019 and the car was then advertised in mid-
December. Mr M paid for the car on 27 December. While I accept this means that the MOT 
was then only 11 months, the dealer has said that Mr M was aware of this. Even if Mr M 
wasnt aware, I dont think this was unreasonable and had Mr M needed 12 months rather 
than 11 at purchase then this is something he could have checked and asked for. Therefore, 
in this case I do not find I can say that the car was misrepresented to Mr M.
Aside from the length of the MOT, Mr Ms main reason for wishing to return the car was due 
to the issues he experienced shortly after collecting it. He noted the following issues:
A headlight bulb not working
Dual air conditioning not working
Low oil in the engine 
Paint peeling off the drivers door.
The dealer responded to the above items saying that there wasnt an issue with the air-
conditioning at the point of supply and that the headlight was working. It said a bulb could fail 
at any time. Mr M was asked to get a quote for the paintwork, but the dealer said this was 
too high.
Mr M didnt view the car before it was delivered and so he wouldnt have been aware of the 
issues, specifically the paint work before that time. I can understand why he didnt view the 
car, but it was an option for him. 
When considering whether a car was of a satisfactory quality at the point of supply, factors 
such as the age and mileage of the car are taken into consideration. In this case the car was 
over 10 years old and had been driven over 100,000 miles. Therefore, it would be expected 
that it would have suffered some wear and tear. I can accept that a bulb can fail at any time 
and that the air conditioning may have been working before delivery. The oil could be topped 
up if needed. But the paint work damage on the door does seem to be of a scale that should 
have been identified before sale, therefore I can understand why Mr M was upset. 
Following Mr Ms complaint an inspection was carried out on the car in August 2020. This 
recorded several areas of concern including the front end being misaligned, issues with the 
trims, poor previous paint repairs, poor repair to the bumper and the need for some new 
fixings. Given the age and mileage of the car it wouldnt be unexpected that previous repairs 
may have taken place, but it appears that these werent undertaken to a reasonable 
standard resulting in issues of the paint peeling and corrosion. I think these issues suggest 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply and so there was a breach of contract.
HSBC has offered to put things right. The outstanding issue is whether the redress offered  
to cover the cost of the repairs and inspection report  is reasonable.I note Mr Ms comments about when he raised his concerns and the right to refund under the 
CRA 2015. However, this complaint is about his s. 75 claim with HSBC. In this case, I think 
HSBC has dealt with his claim in a fair way and offered a reasonable remedy for the breach. 
I understand why Mr M wanted to return the car, but in this case I do not think that rejection 
was proportionate. The paintwork was damaged, and further issues with previous poor 
repairs were identified but these wouldnt have affected Mr Ms use of the car. Therefore, I 
think that repair in this case is a fair remedy.
HSBC offered to cover the costs of the repairs that were identified by the inspection report 
and I find this a reasonable remedy (as well as paying for the report). Therefore I do not 
require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should, as it offered, cover the cost of Mr Ms 
repairs as listed in the inspection report dated August 2020 and pay him £60 to cover the 
cost of the report.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman