DRN-3428505
The complaint
Mr K says the advice given by Better Retirement Group Ltd (BRG) to transfer his 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits, into a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
with Momentum Pension Ltd (MP) and invest in the SVS Securities (SVS) Growth portfolio 
overseen by SVSs discretionary fund management (DFM), was unsuitable.
Mr K is represented by Anthony Philip James & Co Ltd (APJ).
What happened
Mr K says he was contacted by Fiducia Wealth Solutions Limited (FWS) in February 2017. 
Its adviser wanted to discuss his retirement planning. His dealings with FWS appear to have 
happened largely over the phone and in writing.
Mr K was a member of an OPS with deferred benefits. Hed accrued over 5 years of 
qualifying service with a former employer between 1999 and 2005. This had a transfer value 
of around £99,000. He also had a small pension plan with London & Colonial worth about 
£6,700.
FWS wasnt authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to provide advice about the 
transfer of OPS benefits. So, it contracted with BRG to deliver that expertise, this included 
the production by it of a Personalised Pension Report (suitability report).
I should note at this point that FWS went into liquidation in June 2020. I understand the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) are accepting certain claims against it. 
And prior to this, in August 2019, SVS  an investment firm it recommended - was placed 
into special administration following intervention by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
My decision here only concerns the acts and omissions of BRG in relation to the transfer of 
Mr Ks OPS benefits. I appreciate he may have concerns about the other firms involved. But 
those matters will need to be pursued separately, recognising the status of the entities 
involved. 
BRG says it gathered information from FWS about Mr Ks circumstances, objectives and 
matters such as his attitude to risk. Its confirmed it never met him.
BRG produced a suitability report dated 28 March 2017, which recommended Mr K proceed 
with the transfer of his OPS benefits. Ultimately he was persuaded by the advice. He signed 
the necessary paperwork and the transaction was completed in June 2017. The funds were 
placed in a MP SIPP and invested in a SVS Growth portfolio overseen by the SVS DFM 
arrangement.
APJ, on behalf of Mr K, complained to BRG in March 2019 about what had happened in 
2017. It says BRG failed to meet the regulatory obligations placed on it when advising 
someone about transferring their OPS benefits.
BRG responded in June 2019. It set out what it considered to be the limited scope of its 
involvement. It concluded in the following terms:
As confirmed in our email to you of 28 March 2019, Better Retirement Group provided only 
the transfer analysis advice and not the investment advice. It is our understanding that the 
regulated adviser providing that investment advice is Fiducia Wealth Solutions.
The Investigator recommended that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. He wasnt 
persuaded that BRG had demonstrated the transfer of his OPS benefits was demonstrably in 
his best interests as it was required to do. He also concluded that it shouldve been aware 
that the investments he was planning to make with his funds werent suitable.
BRG disagreed. It set out itss relationship with FWS, the process it followed and the 
expertise of its advisers. It explained why it maintained that the transfer was suitable for Mr K 
in his circumstances. And it noted that both FWS and SVS had misled it and the regulator 
concerning how underlying investments would be managed.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings, Mr Ks complaint has been 
passed to me for review. I issued my provisional decision in February. Neither party has 
provided any new evidence or argument, so I see no reason to depart from my initial findings 
and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ks case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by BRG for Mr K. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like BRG. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ks complaint.At the time of the advice BRG gave Mr K, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes (bolding is my emphasis):
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in
the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, BRG was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr K to be able to make 
an informed decision.
- Give Mr K a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr K understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, BRG had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available 
under the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Mr K on what to do.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report.
The report contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client exposure to 3% to 5% of 
their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being suitable for unregulated 
investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were invested in a single unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS).
Even if some of the specialist funds Mr K was invested in werent technically a UCIS, they 
share similar characteristics including the high-risk nature of the investment, being illiquid, 
subject to counter-party risk and uncertain valuation. And I think these matters are relevant 
to my consideration.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in January 2017 it issued an industry alert which said:
We are aware that some firms have been advising on pension transfers or switches without 
considering the assets in which their clients funds will be invested. We are concerned that 
consumers receiving this advice are at risk of transferring into unsuitable investments 
Transferring pension benefits is usually irreversible. The merits or otherwise of the transfer 
may only become apparent years into the future. So it is particularly important that for 
advising on pension transfers ensure that their clients understand fully the implications of a 
proposed transfer before deciding whether or not to proceed.We expect a firm advising on a pension transfer from a defined benefit (DB) scheme or 
other scheme with safeguarded benefits to consider the assets in which the clients funds will 
be invested as well as the specific receiving scheme. It is the responsibility of the firm 
advising on the transfer to take into account the characteristics of these assets.
Our rules set out what a firm must do in preparing and providing a transfer analysis. In 
particular, our rules (COBS 19.1.2R(1)) require a comparison between the benefits likely (on 
reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a DB scheme or other scheme with safeguarded 
benefits and the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits.
The comparison should explain the rates of return that would have to be achieved to 
replicate the benefits being given up and should be illustrated on rates of return which take 
into account the likely expected returns of the assets in which the clients funds will be 
invested. Unless the advice has taken into account the likely expected returns of the assets, 
as well as the associated risks and all costs and charges that will be borne by the client, it is 
unlikely that the advice will meet our expectations
Did BRG adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it when advising Mr K?
In short, I dont think BRG met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
There are several documents relating to BRGs transaction with Mr K that are important to 
my consideration, these include the fact-find, the pension transfer report and the suitability 
report. Ive thought carefully about the testimony of both parties and other communications 
such as the email exchanges between the various parties involved.
The regulatory position sets a high bar, which BRG must be able to clearly demonstrate was 
met, on contemporaneous evidence, that the transfer was in Mr Ks best interests. Im not 
satisfied its managed to do this in the circumstances of this case.
At the time of the advice Mr K was 60. He has been a carer for his mother for several years. 
He received support for this of around £4,700 a year. He also received around £500 annually 
from an investment bond. Mr K was said to have a small monthly surplus each month  
although the only expenses captured were his council tax, water rates and utilities.
Mr K lived with his mother. The house had passed to him and his brother. It was worth 
around £70,000 and there was no outstanding mortgage. His investment bond was worth 
around £7,000. Leaving aside his pensions, Mr K had no other disclosed assets or savings. 
He had no liabilities.
Mr K had a small personal pension valued at around £6,700. He also had deferred OPS 
benefits worth around £99,000 (which had a normal retirement date of 65). He was said to 
be potentially looking to take a capital sum from his pension when he was 61. He was 
planning to retire fully at the state pension age of 67. He was said to require an annual 
income in retirement of around £6,000, which BRG noted hed be able to make up from his 
transferred pension and from the state pension.
BRG recorded Mr Ks objectives in the following terms:
-To transfer your [OPS benefits] to a personal pension arrangement which will provide 
you the flexibility to take an enhanced level of income from this scheme from the age 
of 67 which will allow you to fund the early years of retirement.
-You have advised that you will have sufficient retirement income from your normal 
retirement date which will be derived from the State Pension and your investments.-You have also advised your IFA that you would like, as far as possible, to leave any 
remaining funds to your family in the form of a lump sum benefit or beneficiaries 
drawdown in the event of your death.
-you may wish to release the maximum amount of tax-free cash available from your 
pension at some point in the future, along with improving the capital death benefits 
available to your loved ones.
-You plan to retire at age 67 and will use this pension to provide you with an income in 
retirement. you do not feel the need to draw an income from these funds yet and 
that you have adequate income for the time being from other sources but you need 
the tax-free cash lump sum.
-You would like to leave any remaining funds to your family in the event of your death.
Mr Ks objectives are not compelling and some appear in conflict. They are not specific, 
measurable or time-related. For example, it was said he may want to release some tax-free 
cash (TFC) from his pension at some point in the future. No rationale, scale or time horizon 
is provided. If he was to have taken TFC, this wouldve undermined another of his recorded 
objectives, which was said to be to take an enhanced income at 67.
Theres a significant focus on passing benefits to his family in the event of his death. While 
he had an elderly mother and a brother, he didnt have a partner or dependents. Focussing 
on the inheritance of any residual benefits after Mr Ks passing was a second order 
consideration. Its most likely he wouldve used up his modest pot himself. As BRG knows 
retirement funds are primarily to provide an income in retirement.
Ive concerns about what BRG says was Mr Ks target income for retirement. It thought the 
£6,000 a year he seems to have settled on as the total amount he needed, would be 
covered by his state pension and transferred OPS benefits. Ive seen no evidence that it 
properly assessed what his entitlement to a state pension was- hed been out of the 
workforce for a decade.
BRG said Mr K would receive a state pension of £9,000 per annum. Assuming this was the 
case, or a sum not far short of this, it then begs the question why he needed to transfer his 
OPS benefits. If he truly had all the funds hed need in retirement to maintain his modest 
living standards, why would he take on risk by transferring his OPS benefits  there wouldve 
been no need.
Mr K was living frugally in 2017. While his needs mayve been modest, this is likely to have 
been driven by his circumstances at the time of the advice, being a long-term carer for his 
elderly mother. This was a situation that was highly likely to change within the horizon that 
his pension planning shouldve been considering.
The expenditure analysis FWS performed was weak. Not only did it exclude provision for 
any leisure and holiday spending by Mr K, it didnt allow for food and clothing (which it was 
recorded were paid for by his mother), mobile phone or TV subscriptions, insurance or 
savings. In responding to the Investigators view, BRG constructed another expenditure 
breakdown to show Mr K would have sufficient resources in retirement. It assumed £400 
extra as a "generous" provision for household expenses.
A total income of just £6,000 a year is very low and I would disagree with any description of 
living on £400 a month as being generous when expenditure on holidays and leisure was £0. 
However, its reasonable to say that if Mr K was surviving on this level of income at the time 
of the review, then whatever level of state pension he received was likely to cover these 
costs and his OPS would only improve his standard of living.Ive seen no evidence of an attempt by BRG to get to the bottom of these important 
questions. I think this wouldve been important to Mr K being able to take an informed view 
about the transfer of his OPS benefits. BRG hasnt done enough to satisfy me the process it 
followed was thorough, and therefore fair. 
Ive concluded Mr Ks stated objectives provide a weak rationale for the transfer of his OPS 
benefits. Rather than exploring matters further, BRG appears to have simply reflected what it 
was told via FWS. By its own admission, its interaction with him was limited.
BRG was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr K about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many 
years are to provide for retirement. And certainly when early access to benefits are 
recommended there need to be compelling reasons. Thats not the case here based on the 
available evidence.
It was BRGs role to discern what Mr Ks wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what it thought he wanted without any critical thinking. And it wasnt 
providing a basic transactional service to FWS. It had to use due care and skill. It had to do 
these things because it had to act in his best interests. It hasnt demonstrated that it met 
these obligations.
Turning to the financial case for this transaction. The critical yield is the level of returns Mr 
Ks new SIPP would need to have achieved in order for the transfer to match his OPS 
pension benefits at retirement (aged 65). The pension transfer report indicated that an 
annual return of not less than 21.73% would be required (assuming that all his benefits were 
taken as a pension).
BRGs advice was given during the period when this Service published 'discount rates' on 
our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been 
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in Mr Ks case.
The critical yield required to match Mr Ks OPS benefits was 21.73%. When the advice was 
given, the relevant discount rate was 3.0% per year for 4 years to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
The comparable growth rates this Service used were based on a typical investment spread 
across shares and bonds. So, its arguable that if Mr K had a high appetite for risk, the 
investment portfolio selected in that case mightve had an outside chance of big returns. But 
even then this wouldve been too big a bridge to gap.
BRG says it did not use the critical yield analysis in its advice. Instead it produced a cash 
flow analysis to show how long Mr Ks funds would last, based on certain assumptions such 
as his life expectancy and at different growth rates. The modelling suggested that with a 5% 
return, if he were to drawdown benefits equivalent to those it projected from his OPS, his pot 
could last until he was 89  five years more than his life expectancy.
Theres merit in using these cash flow models. But clearly much depends on the data input 
and assumptions. Having considered the results produced by BRGs report I dont find the 
results for Mr Ks case showed it was demonstrably in his best interests to transfer.The life expectancy calculations used by BRG indicated Mr K had a life expectancy of 83. In 
its suitability report it suggested that based on medium returns on his investments his fund 
would last until he was 89. This is somewhat at odds with what the income drawdown report 
it commissioned reported. Based on medium returns, it said his funds would run out when he 
reached 84. And the pension transfer report concluded theyd be exhausted by the time he 
reached 83.
I note that BRG says Mr Ks life expectancy can be reduced by a couple of years because 
he was a smoker. But in its most recent submission, where it set out its approach to cash 
flow assessment for OPS pension transfers, it told us:
We require that the [OPS] income will be payable for the client's life expectancy plus 5
years (no account of ill health is taken in this assumption).
Mr Ks OPS transfer doesnt appear to have met BRGs own measure of financial viability.
Further, data from the Office for National Statistics indicates that someone of his age had a 
one in four chance of reaching 94 and a one in ten chance of reaching 99. So, I think BRG 
needed to be clearer with Mr K that there was a significant possibility that if he went into 
drawdown this element of his pension pot could be exhausted before he passed.
BRGs modelling of returns from a generic medium risk portfolio was based on an 
assumption for annual management charges of 1%, ongoing adviser fees of 0.5 % and initial 
fees of around £5,300. It indicates no SIPP fees because Mr K was said to be transferring 
his OPS benefits to an existing SIPP  this didnt happen, so extra fees wouldve been 
incurred.
I note some of these fees and charges were assumptions, for example Mr K wasnt told how 
much the DFM arrangement with SVS, including the various fund management overheads 
would cost. I think BRG needed to have been more transparent about the fees and charges 
he would be incurring and the impact of these on the illustrations he was provided. After all, 
he was being advised to move from an OPS which didnt have the same scale of overheads. 
I find the pension arrangements recommended by BRG to have been unnecessarily 
expensive and over-engineered for Mr Ks relatively modest requirements.
Theres no evidence Mr K was an investment professional or a sophisticated investor. This is 
important context when I consider what happened to him. Firstly, I have some concerns 
about how FWS assessed his appetite for risk.
In its suitability report BRG said:
Your attitude to risk has been independently assessed by [FWS] and I can confirm that on a 
scale of 1 to 10 your attitude to risk has been rated as a number 7 but then scaled back 
slightly following a discussion with your financial adviser to a number 6 classifying you as a 
High Medium Risk investor.
High Medium Risk was defined as follows:
Whilst you are likely to be concerned with not getting as much back from your Investments 
as you put in; you also want to make a higher return on your investments. Our preferred 
Investment portfolio is likely to include low risk investments such as cash and bonds as well 
as higher risk investments such as shares.
BRG noted Mr Ks assessed risk appetite and in its suitability report it said:All future advice regarding your investments and product selection will be dealt with by 
[FWS]. Our advice is therefore restricted to advice on the actual pension transfer only. That 
said we have assessed the appropriateness of the underlying investment strategy being 
proposed for you and detailed below. Provided this investment strategy is followed we have 
concluded that this strategy is appropriate for your circumstances.
It also noted:
[FWS] has confirmed that, as your fund is actively managed by both him and a dedicated 
stockbroker, that a target return of 5% could be considered as achievable over the longer 
term considering your attitude to risk and the resultant exposure of a percentage of your 
funds to global equity, property, and bond markets.
So, BRG knew a lot hinged on getting the assessment of Mr Ks appetite for risk right. 
Looking at the responses he gave to FWSs questionnaires, I have concerns about this.
For example, he indicated to the adviser in one response that he had a fair degree of 
understanding and knowledge of investing (the third highest of four categories of 
experience). Yet, he also confirmed hed never invested in a pension plan where he could 
control the selection of funds; hed never invested in collective investments; hed never 
bought or sold shares; and hed never invested in alternatives such as structured products, 
enterprise investment schemes or unregulated products.
Mr Ks responses to some questions he was asked did indicate that he was agreeable to risk 
a percentage (undefined) of his capital to get a good return. He wasnt worried about fixed 
rates of return. He didnt think he was more risk averse than the average person. He 
wouldnt rather put his money in a bank account than invest in shares. He would accept 
potential losses in order to secure long-term investment growth.
But Mr K also disagreed that to achieve high returns he would need to choose high-risk 
investments. When faced with an investment decision, he appears to have been equally 
focussed on possible losses as much as probable gains. He also had no strong opinion 
about feeling comfortable with financial uncertainty; the importance to him of taking financial 
risk; or investing a large proportion of his capital in high risk investments.
FWS also assessed Mr Ks capacity for loss. It noted his investment horizon was 6-10 years. 
That he could tolerate small losses and that he had savings and investments which he could 
use for most needs.
In its suitability report BRG noted Mr K had said:
"A total loss would have a large impact on my future living standards. I would have to rely on 
state pension, which would be sufficient, as I do not have a lavish lifestyle and believe I 
could manage on what the state pension would provide."
Both firms seem to have ignored what was staring them in the face. Aside from Mr Ks small 
pension plan with London & Colonial, his deferred OPS benefits were his only pension 
provision, aside from his state pension. Taken together these presented the potential to 
improve his standard of living in retirement significantly, without the need to take on any risk. 
In taking on substantial risks by transferring his OPS, Mr K had no significant assets, savings 
or investments to fall back on.
I think Mr Ks capacity for loss was low.
In its last submission to this Service BRG told us about its approach to reviewing the 
investment strategy Mr K would be taking on:Wereviewed the portfolios, their risk profile and the asset allocation but did not examine 
the detail of any specific holdings within those asset allocations as we were not advising the 
client on the appropriateness of the investments but ensuring that the investment company 
was appropriate for the client's risk profile and supported the transfer analysis we were 
undertaking.
In looking at the asset allocation, we did see the prospectus for the bonds listed on the Irish 
Stock Exchange and were told that full UCITS were in application. There is no indication in 
the prospectus of anything irregular.
I dont think BRGs approach went far enough in terms of understanding the characteristics, 
balance or appropriateness of the holdings that were proposed for Mr Ks portfolio. For 
example, he appears to have been placed in UCISs, and certainly highly specialised and 
unregulated funds. And the value of these investments accounted for over 45% of his pot.
Ive seen some of the notes on suitability and risk flagged in the literature associated with 
some of the specialist investments being made with Mr Ks funds. The following extracts are
typical. 
In respect of his holdings with Corporate Finance Bonds Limited:
Suitability
Prospective purchasers of the Notes of any Class should ensure that they understand the 
nature of such Notes and the extent of their exposure to risk, that they have sufficient 
knowledge, experience and access to professional advisers to make their own legal, tax, 
accounting and financial evaluation of the merits and risks of investment in such Notes and 
that they consider the suitability of such Notes as an investment in the light of their own 
circumstances and financial condition.
Unlike a bank deposit, the Notes are not protected by the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (the "FSCS") or any other government savings or deposit protection scheme. As a 
result, the FSCS will not pay compensation to an investor in the Notes upon the failure of the 
Issuer. If the Issuer goes out of business or becomes insolvent. Noteholders may lose all or 
part of their investment in the Notes.
In respect of Mr Ks holding with Angelfish Investments PLC:
The Preference Shares are complex financial instruments. Sophisticated institutional 
investors generally do not purchase complex financial instruments as stand-alone 
investments. They purchase complex financial instruments as a way to reduce risk or 
enhance yield with an understood, measured, appropriate addition of risk to their overall 
portfolios. A potential investor should only invest in the Preference Shares if they have the 
expertise (either alone or with a financial adviser) to evaluate how the Preference Shares will 
perform under changing conditions, the resulting effects on the value of the Preference 
Shares and the impact this investment will have on the potential investors overall investment 
portfolio.
As well as creating a serious lack of diversification in how Mr Ks funds were being invested, 
BRG hasnt done enough to satisfy me that he was a sufficiently experienced investor to 
appreciate the risks he was taking on. As the regulator said as far back as 2013:
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.I dont know how closely BRG consulted FWS. Its not clear to me it had any direct dealings 
with Mr K at all. The business model it adopts is of course a matter for it. But clearly there 
are risks when the clients for an important piece of work are at arms-length.
More generally, Im not satisfied that Mr K was properly informed that by moving away from 
his OPS scheme and using the funds to invest, he was moving from a situation where his 
former employer was bearing the risks related to the provision of his retirement income to 
one where he was taking on that risk.
Its arguable BRG seemed more concerned with fulfilling a contract with FWS for pension 
transfer expertise than providing effective advice about what was in Mr Ks best interests 
concerning his valuable OPS benefits. It hasnt done enough to satisfy me that the 
transaction was demonstrably in his best interest. 
In its response to the Investigator, BRG said:
[Mr Ks] mothers house is valued at £70,000, so half his share would be £35,000. The 
transfer fund being circa £100,000 would have provided tax-free cash of £25,000 and, using 
tax allowances a further £10,000 could be taken from his fund tax free. This would have 
been sufficient to buy out his brothers share in the house. This degree of flexibility was 
invaluable to Mr K and would have enable him to use his transferred pension to own his own 
property outright.
Theres no record of this objective within the fact-find or suitability report. As BRG were 
solely relying on information from FWS and hadn't spoken to Mr K, the lack of any written 
record of this intent suggests it is an argument that has been developed after the event.
BRG has also argued that Mr K couldve been disadvantaged by staying in his OPS, as the 
level of income it provided couldve resulted in him becoming a taxpayer and possibly losing 
benefits. I dont accept the argument that earning enough income to be eligible to pay tax is 
proof of any disadvantage.
If Mr K does end up paying tax, it will be because he has started to receive a level of income 
to be able to sustain such. At the point of advice BRG hadnt provided Mr K with any insights 
into the tax and benefit implications of his various pension arrangement options. This 
appears to be another argument raised to justify the transfer, developed after the event. And 
even now it hasnt provided a detailed financial analysis to support its argument.
By transferring out of his OPS and delaying taking income until age 67, Mr K was depriving 
himself of two years of income (over £11,000), as his OPS benefits wouldve become 
payable from 65. This money wouldnt have been returned to him in the form of higher 
payments later if he was only going to match his OPS pension in retirement.
The projected level of TFC his OPS would pay has not been recorded anywhere, which 
suggests that Mr K was not aware of how much he could get. The Pension Transfer Report 
of 8 March 2017 does show that, if his pension entered the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), 
he could get an annual pension of £4,981, which reduced to £3,935 with TFC of £26,028. 
This suggested a commutation rate of around 25:1.
This suggests his projected pension of £5,737 couldve provided a lump sum of 
approximately £30,194, with a reduced pension of £4,529. If Mr K did want as much TFC as 
possible, then it seems he mayve received more by staying inside his OPS.Generally, I find BRG failed to provide Mr K with sufficient information about the benefits and 
flexibilities available from his OPS. And to make a clear comparison between these and the 
proposed new arrangements.
BRG mentioned Mr K wanted to leave his OPS as he was concerned about the financial 
security of the pension and his former employer. I can understand why this mayve been a 
concern for him, especially as the same employer/pension had a previous well publicised 
pension scandal. But this isnt reason alone to justify recommending the transfer and as this 
wasn't covered in the report, the strength of Mr K's feelings about this issue isn't known.
Its not clear BRG told him how much pension he would receive in the PPF. While covered in 
the pension transfer report, there was no reference to this in his suitability report. Had it been 
covered, it wouldve informed Mr K that for the scheme to enter the PPF, both the parent 
company and the pension scheme would have to fail.
Although the scheme had a shortfall, neither BRG nor Mr K were in a position to assess the 
ongoing viability of his former employer. It wouldve been speculative to recommend 
transferring based on how well it thought the company might perform. Further, Mr K only had 
five years until retirement, so it was only the short term success or otherwise of the business 
which wouldve been an issue. Once in payment his pension wouldve been secure.
Overall, I think BRG shouldve provided Mr K with an explicit recommendation not to proceed 
with the transfer of his OPS benefits into the SIPP, to invest in funds that were beyond his 
risk appetite. I think that if BRG had given Mr K appropriate advice, he wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the transfer.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Mr Ks pension funds could sensibly be regarded as 
fair to him. As such I think BRG failed to meet the regulatory requirements when providing 
his with advice and making the arrangements. So, taking all the circumstances of the case 
into account, its reasonable to uphold this complaint against BRG and for it to put things 
right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ks case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Better Retirement Group Ltd responsible for.
If BRG had done everything it shouldve, I dont think Mr K wouldve transferred his OPS 
benefits, into a SIPP with MP and invest in the SVS Securities (SVS) Growth portfolio 
overseen by a DFM. And he wouldnt have suffered the financial loss hes facing. I think its 
most likely he wouldve left his pension where it had been.
I consider Mr K wouldve remained in his former OPS. Better Retirement Group Ltd should 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ks acceptance of the decision.
BRG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ks 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ks SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Ks pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  Ive assumed 
Mr K will be a non-taxpayer.
My aim is to return Mr K to the position he wouldve been in but for the actions of Better 
Retirement Group Ltd. The records show Mr K was moved from the MP SIPP to Nucleus, 
apparently following proposed increases in the fees of the former. This happened around 
April 2019. It seems his investments were sold rather than transferred in specie.
I dont know what investments were made subsequently on Mr Ks behalf. But Ive assumed 
these wouldnt have been at variance with the appetite for risk that BRG had endorsed. But 
Ive no reason to consider that there was a break in causation of any losses hes incurred at 
this point.
I also dont know whether Mr K took any funds from his pension pot.
These matters will need to be understood and appropriate adjustments made for the 
purposes of calculating any redress. Mr K and his representatives will need to cooperate 
with BRG to enable it to establish the detailed position.
Redress is further complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cant be readily 
sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. This may not now be the case 
given the events of 2019. However, if there are illiquid holdings, and this is due to Mr K 
continuing to follow the advice he was provided in 2017, then BRG should agree an amount 
with the SIPP provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus 
any costs, and take ownership of the investment.
If BRG is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the purposes of 
calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should include 
anything BRG has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the 
SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this. BRG may ask Mr K to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. BRG will need to meet any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking. If it asks Mr K to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr K within 90 days of the date 
BRG receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRG 
to pay Mr K.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Finally, it is my understanding Mr K engaged with the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) about the actions of Fiducia Wealth Solutions Limited. To be clear, if the 
FSCS were to make an award to him in respect of the issues covered by this decision, it 
would usually seek to reclaim any compensation hed received from third parties. Mr K cant 
benefit from double recovery.
And if Mr K were to receive compensation from the FSCS, separately to any compensation 
now payable by BRG but in relation to the matters covered by my decision, and the FSCS 
didnt seek to recover this, he should provide an undertaking to repay BRG that amount 
which represents a double payment.
Further information
Some examples of how calculations should be carried out are available on our website 
under 'Publications' / 'Online Technical Resource' / 'Investment' / 'Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints'
Distress and inconvenience
In addition, I consider that Better Retirement Group Ltd should pay Mr K compensation for 
distress and inconvenience of £350. This is in recognition of the failings Ive identified and 
the impact these have had on his retirement planning.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. As such, I require 
Better Retirement Group Ltd to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman