The complaint
Mr G and Ms G complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2003, Mr G and Ms G took out a joint mortgage with Nationwide. Nationwide also sold 
them a regular premium PPI policy. This policy covered the repayments on their mortgage 
for up to twelve months - on a 50:50 basis - if one of them was unable to work because of 
an accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy was offered free for the first twelve 
months. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr G and Ms G disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Nationwide doesnt still have copies of all the paperwork which would have been completed 
at the time of the sale. This isnt that surprising given how long ago this was. Businesses 
arent required to keep such records for this length of time.
In these circumstances, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened based 
on all the evidence available to me  including anything which Mr G and Ms G say they 
remember from then.
Nationwide doesnt have a copy of the PPI application form which it says Mr G and Ms G 
would have needed to complete to have the PPI added to their mortgage. But it does have a 
copy of their signed mortgage application. And I can see that a box has been ticked on this 
to confirm they wanted to be provided with more information about PPI for their mortgage. 
Ive also seen a copy of the PPI quotation which was subsequently prepared for 
Mr G and Ms G.  
So, from what Ive seen  together with what I know more generally about how Nationwide 
normally sold PPI on its mortgages at the time  I think that its most likely that 
Mr G and Ms G actively decided to take the policy knowing they had a choice. If they hadnt 
DRN-1645061agreed to PPI, I also think its likely that they would have cancelled the policy when they 
received a letter telling them the first twelve months of free cover was coming to an end. But 
this all happened a long time ago, so I would understand it if Mr G and Ms G couldnt recall 
agreeing to the PPI now.
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI policy to Mr G and Ms G. This means it didnt 
need to ensure that the policy was suitable for them. But it did still need to give them enough 
information about the policy for them to decide if they wanted to take it. I dont know all the 
information which was given to Mr G and Ms G at the time of this sale. And its possible that 
the information they received could have been better than it was. But I dont think that better 
information would have changed their minds about taking out this cover. I say this because:
They appear to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main
exclusions or limitations.
Mr G and Ms G say they were entitled to very generous sick pay from their
employers, which meant they didnt need the cover provided by this policy. But the
policy would have paid out in addition to their sick pay entitlement, providing cover
against accidents, sickness and unemployment. It provided specific cover for their
monthly mortgage repayments, and a mortgage is a big financial commitment  one
where ones home is potentially at risk if repayments cant be met. And they chose to
take the policy, so it seems that they were interested in this type of cover and the
extra security it gave them. Mr G and Ms G say they were also entitled to some other
benefits from their employers if they couldnt work. But, based on what theyve said, I
dont think these gave them equivalent protection to the PPI. So I dont think these
other benefits would have put Mr G and Ms G off taking out the policy either. I still
think that Mr G and Ms G would have valued the additional protection that the PPI
policy gave them if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable for Mr G and Ms G. And as the
premiums were paid monthly, the policy could have been cancelled if it no longer met
their needs.
Ive thought carefully about all the points which Mr G and Ms G have made in response to 
our adjudicators view. But this hasnt made me think that theyve lost out by anything that 
Nationwide may have done wrong when it sold them this PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.Simon Furse
Ombudsman