DRN-4316689
The complaint
D, a company, complains about Starr International (Europe) Limiteds (Starr) decision to
decline a claim it made under a contractors liability insurance policy as well as delays in
dealing with it.
What happened
D made a claim on its Starr contractors liability insurance policy for help to defend a claim
made against it by a customer for defective workmanship. The customer applied for an
Adjudication against D, so D asked Starr for assistance to defend this as well as recover the
outstanding sums it had invoiced the customer for, which had yet to be paid.
D says it received no meaningful reply from Starr, despite chasing and that it took them over
four months to assess the claim. When the claim was assessed, Starr turned it down on the
basis that it had been notified late, that the policy didnt cover claims for defective
workmanship and that rectifying original contract works was also not covered.
D says it had no option to appoint its own Solicitor to act for it in the Adjudication and that if it
had waited for help from Starr, it wouldnt have got any in time, which would have prejudiced
its position. D feels Starrs conduct represents a lack of care that left them without advice or
cover when it needed it.
Our investigator considered Ds complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She said
that Starr had accepted the service theyd provided fell below what was expected of them
and that theyd adequately compensated D for this by offering to pay £500 in compensation.
The investigator also said the claim wasnt in any event one that would be covered because
claims for defective workmanship were specifically excluded by the policy.
D doesnt agree. It says the amount Starr awarded doesnt properly compensate it for the
loss it suffered. It says it incurred over £45,000 because the dispute had to be escalated to
the High Court, giving rise to defamation and harassment issues that have impacted its
business operations. It also feels it would have incurred costs of more than £50,000 
representing its customers costs, had it not obtained representation and defended the
matter without Starrs assistance.
I issued a provisional decision upholding Ds complaint in August 2023 in which I said:
The starting point are the policy terms. Under the PUBLIC LIABILITY, DEFINITIONS 
section,
they say:
Costs and Expenses
In addition the Underwriter will pay costs and expenses incurred by the Insured or with its
written consent:-
a. in connection with defence of any claim.

which may be the subject of indemnity under this Section.
Starr says this element of cover doesnt extend to defective work. Ive set out the exclusion it
relies on below.
EXCLUSIONS
8. Damage to Goods Supplied
Liability in respect of: -
a. Damage to any goods or other property sold, supplied, delivered, installed or erected
by or on behalf of the Insured.
b. all costs of or arising from the need for making good, removal, repair, rectification,
replacement or recall of
i. any such goods or property;
ii. any defective work executed by or on behalf of the Insured;
except that 8 a. and 8 b i. above shall not apply to liability in respect of loss or damage to the
said goods or property if such loss or damage is caused by or arises from: -
1. any alteration, repair or servicing work executed;
2. any other goods or property sold, supplied, delivered, installed or erected;
by the Insured under a separate contract.
Its true that the claim alleged by Ds customer against D was for defective roofing work, but
D says the cause of the damage to the customers roof was as a result of a design defect
which it was not responsible for. Starr appointed a loss adjuster to consider the matter, but
that was some considerable time after the claim was made, at which point the Adjudication
between D and its customer had concluded. The loss adjusters report refers to evidence
obtained by D which confirmed the cause of the damage was due to a design defect rather
than defective workmanship by it. This was then supported by the Adjudicators decision
which found that on the balance of probabilities, defective design was the cause of the
problems complained of by Cs customer.
In this case it took Starr a considerable period of time to investigate the claim, by which point
D had taken steps to defend its position to conclusion of the Adjudication. If things had gone
as they should, Starr should have appointed a loss adjuster to determine the cause of the
problems complained of by Ds customer in order to determine whether this was a claim it
could provide cover for. The fact that Ds customer was alleging defective workmanship
when D disputed this was the reason for the claim, doesnt mean Starr was entitled to
decline the claim without first investigating Ds position. I cant say with any certainty what
the loss adjuster would have said if theyd investigated the position before the Adjudication
concluded but given the evidence obtained by D supported that defective design was the
cause of the problems, I think its also likely the loss adjuster would have come to this
conclusion. If it had done so, then I think the claim would have been covered by the policy
terms. I say so because the terms Ive set out above extend to covering costs and expenses
incurred in connection with the defence of any claim unless excluded- and there are no other
exclusions that I think apply here. Ive explained why below.
When reaching this conclusion, Ive thought about the other reasons Starr gave for declining
Ds claim. The loss adjuster referred to the claim against D being for costs related to
rectifying the roof which formed part of Ds original contract works and that these costs might
well have fallen into the exclusion Ive quoted above at clause 8(b)(ii). My view is that this
exclusion would not be applicable if Starr had satisfied itself that the cause of the problems
complained of was as a result of defective design, irrespective of what Ds customer was
claiming for. And as Ive already said, I think its more likely than not that if things had gone
as they should, Starr would have obtained a loss adjusters report that supported that
position.
Starr has also referred to the claim being turned down on the basis that D reported it four
months after it became aware of the issues complained of and that this breaches the policyrequirement for D to notify Starr immediately upon being advised of any prosecution,
inquest or enquiry connected with any Injury, Damage or consequential loss which may form
the subject of a claim under this Policy.
I agree that Starr is entitled to rely on this term, but it wouldnt be fair to do so if its not able
to show its position was prejudiced by the delay in the claim being brought. Starr hasnt
made any submissions to support this contention, so Im not persuaded that it was
prejudiced by the claim being brought when it was. And given it took Starr over 4 months to
consider the claim at all, I dont think I can say they would have done anything meaningful
sooner, had the claim been brought earlier by D. Because of this I dont accept that its fair
for Starr to turn down cover on the basis that the claim was notified late.
Finally, I agree that Starrs handling of the claim was poor. It took too long to consider things
despite the need for cover to be assessed being urgent given the impending Adjudication.
And I can see that D chased Starr various times in this regard. Given the urgency, I
understand why D considered it had no option but to instruct Solicitors to help defend the
claim against it. And given what Ive said above, I think this would have been a claim that D
should have been covered to defend. Because of this, I think Starr should put things right in
the way Ive set out below.
For clarity, I havent awarded anything in respect of compensation to D because I think the
sum of £500 Starr has offered D is enough to compensate it for the inconvenience of
chasing for cover and the four month delay in Starr doing anything meaningful. If D hasnt
yet received this and wants to accept the offer, it should contact Starr directly.
Putting things right
Starr should now reimburse Ds for the legal costs it incurred in defending the claim
against its former customer from four weeks after Ds claim was made until the
conclusion of the Adjudication.
I have allowed a period of four weeks because I consider this represents a reasonable
period for Starr to have properly investigated Ds claim, including the appointment of a
loss adjuster.
Starr should pay D interest of 8% per year simple on the legal costs D has paid in
respect of defending the claim in the Adjudication to date, from the time they were paid,
until Starr reimburses D for these.
D will need to provide Starr with evidence of the costs its paid in this respect as well as
when they were paid to allow Starr to comply with the award I have made.
D has said that proceedings have been pursued in the High Court following this matter. I
dont have enough information about those proceedings to determine whether Starr
should consider that claim. And given Starr hasnt had the opportunity to consider these
costs, D will need to provide Starr with details of these proceedings to allow it to decide
whether the claim is covered at all. If Starr would have always covered that claim
following the conclusion of the Adjudication, then it should reimburse D for its costs
incurred in the matter. But if Starr doesnt agree that the claim would have been covered
under the policy terms and D doesnt accept Starrs position, D will be entitled to pursue
a complaint through this Service accordingly- though this will form the basis of a fresh
complaint.
I asked both parties to provide any further comments and evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both parties responded. D provided the evidence it relies on to support 
the costs its claiming. Starr made a number of submissions in response. Ive summarised 
those as follows:
The claim against D was for rectification of works for damage to goods or property sold, 
supplied, delivered, installed or erected and this is excluded by the policy;The claim was for rectification of the contract works and damage to property which forms 
part of the contract works and this is excluded separately by the policy;
Even if the cause of the claim was for defective design, this would not have been 
covered by the policy due to the exclusions quoted and the cause of the claim is 
irrelevant;
A claim for defective design by D would not have been covered as there is an exclusion 
that relates to this too in the policy;
The policy covers costs and expenses incurred in connection with the defence of any 
claim which may be the subject of indemnity under the Public Liability Section. There is 
no indemnity for this type of claim under that section so it cannot be capable of cover.
The claim was not declined on the basis of late notification because there was never any 
cover for it but if it was covered, Starr have been prejudiced by the late notice given 
because they werent able to appoint panel lawyers with pre agreed preferential rates.
They accept the delay in handling the claim and have adequately compensated D for this 
with the offer of £500.
They take the view that my provisional decision seeks to depart from the policy terms 
and conditions and broadens coverage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that Ds complaint should be upheld in the same way I 
have set out within my provisional decision. Ill explain why below, but before doing so, I 
want clarify that I wont be considering the evidence D has supplied to support its claim for 
costs. Thats something that it will need to pass on to Starr directly to consider so that they 
can assess the level of payment and interest due to D.
Turning now to Starrs submissions; its disappointing that theyre now seeking to introduce a 
new policy exclusion so late into Ds complaint journey, which theyve quoted from clause 10 
of the exclusions set out in the policy. Ive thought carefully about what theyve said about 
this and the exclusions at clause 8, but I dont think it makes any difference to the outcome 
of this complaint.
My provisional findings in this complaint are based on the fact that although liability for 
claims for defective workmanship and rectification of works to Ds customers property were 
excluded by the policy, Starr wasnt entitled to decline the claim without first investigating Ds 
position. And if it wanted to rely on a policy exclusion, it had to do so by evidencing this was 
applicable. In this case, Ive said that if things had gone as they should have and Starr had 
appointed a loss adjuster at the right time, its likely that the adjuster would have concluded 
the cause of the claim against D was due to the poor design of another and not as a result of 
defective workmanship that required rectification work. 
The causation issue is relevant because the policy wording in relation to the exclusions 
quoted by Starr require there to be Liability in respect of those exclusions. As Liability is 
not defined by the policy, Ive applied the ordinary dictionary meaning which is the state of 
being legally responsible for something. I think that given the evidence D had obtained to 
support its position and from what I can see, the lack of evidence to dispute that from its 
customer, Starr would be hard pressed to show that liability for defective workmanship and 
rectification works to Ds customers property could be established in this case. And for the 
same reasons, I apply the same approach to the new clause Starr have quoted which 
excludes:
10. Contract Works and J.C.T. Clause 21.2.1Liability in respect of Damage to any property:-
a. Comprising or to be incorporated into the contract works in respect of any contract 
undertaken by the Insured. 
Starr have said that the policy wording sets out that the policy only affords cover for costs 
and expenses incurred in connection with the defence of any claim which may be the subject 
of indemnity under the Public Liability Section. Theyve said that as theres no indemnity for 
the type of claim being made, then it cant be capable of cover. I dont agree. The operative 
words in the follow clauses are in my view any and may:
Costs and Expenses
In addition the Underwriter will pay costs and expenses incurred by the Insured or with its
written consent:-
a. in connection with the defence of any claim.
 which may be the subject of indemnity under this Section.
So the policy covers costs and expenses in connection with the defence of any claim which 
may be the subject of indemnity under the Public Liability section. Its not a requirement 
that the claim has to be the subject of specified cover or that the defence needs to fit into 
any specific category, defined by the policy. As such I think that Ds claim for cover would 
have fallen within the construction of this term, which Ive not interpreted any more widely 
than the way it is phrased. 
Starr have referred to claims for defective design being excluded by the policy too, but thats 
not applicable to the claim that D made. The cause of the claim was the defective design of 
another but thats not what was being advanced by Ds customer against D and as such not 
the claim D needed cover to defend. Because of this, I dont think the exclusion theyve 
referred to here has any bearing on Ds claim for cover.
Turning now to the point Starr have made in relation to late notification and prejudice; Im not 
persuaded that not being given the opportunity to appoint a panel firm at preferred rates in 
circumstances where Starr themselves caused a delay of 4 months to the claim, amounts to 
their being prejudiced. Even if D had notified the claim in time, they would still have likely 
sought their own representation due to the considerable delay in Starr dealing with it. So, Im 
not satisfied that Starr has established its fair to rely on the late notification term.
Putting things right
For the same reasons set out in my provisional decision and this decision, I direct Starr 
International (Europe) Limited to put things right as follows:
Starr should now reimburse Ds for the legal costs it incurred in defending the claim
against its former customer from four weeks after Ds claim was made until the
conclusion of the Adjudication.
I have allowed a period of four weeks because I consider this represents a reasonable
period for Starr to have properly investigated Ds claim, including the appointment of a
loss adjuster.
Starr should pay D interest of 8% per year simple on the legal costs D has paid in
respect of defending the claim in the Adjudication to date, from the time they were paid,
until Starr reimburses D for these.
D will need to provide Starr with evidence of the costs its paid in this respect as well as
when they were paid to allow Starr to comply with the award I have made.
D has said that proceedings have been pursued in the High Court following this matter. I
dont have enough information about those proceedings to determine whether Starrshould consider that claim. And given Starr hasnt had the opportunity to consider these
costs, D will need to provide Starr with details of these proceedings to allow it to decide
whether the claim is covered at all. If Starr would have always covered that claim
following the conclusion of the Adjudication, then it should reimburse D for its costs
incurred in the matter. But if Starr doesnt agree that the claim would have been covered
under the policy terms and D doesnt accept Starrs position, D will be entitled to pursue
a complaint through this Service accordingly- though this will form the basis of a fresh
complaint.
 
My final decision
I uphold Ds complaint against Starr International (Europe) Limited and direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman