DRN-1614778
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr R complain about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds settlement of her private 
health insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr R have private health insurance through Mr Rs work. They complain that 
when AXA authorised Mrs Bs claim to see a consultant it didnt tell her about her remaining 
outpatient allowance under the policy or that shed need to call AXA for further authorisation 
for any further tests. 
The consultant told Mrs B she needed blood tests and a scan. The consultants fee was 
£195, the blood tests cost about £414 and the scan about £397. AXA wouldnt pay the full 
costs as the costs exceeded Mrs Bs remaining outpatient allowance.
When Mr R complained AXA listened to the recording of the authorisation call. It accepted its 
representative had given the impression that the consultants fee would be covered in full so 
AXA paid the £195 fee. But it said its representative had told Mrs B the diagnostic tests were 
subject to her remaining allowance so it would still only cover the cost of the tests to the 
allowance limit.
Mrs B and Mr R complained to us. They want AXA to pay the remaining costs (about £290) 
and the credit card interest they incurred to pay the costs. They said theyd been very 
stressed by the situation and felt let down by AXA. Theyre also unhappy that Mrs B got her 
benefit statements on-line when she would have preferred by post, as she used to have. 
Our investigator said AXA had fairly settled the claim and acted reasonably.
Mrs B and Mr R dont agree and want an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B and Mr R but I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs B had an outpatients allowance of £1,200 for the policy year. Ive listened to the 
relevant call between AXA and Mrs B. AXAs representative said:
Just need to make you aware of a couple of thingsWhere weve authorized the 
initial consultation, the minor outpatient diagnostics and the follow up will be subject 
to the outpatient allowance you have on the policy. I currently have your remaining 
allowance as £521.90 for this plan year. Just to make you aware those consultations 
will be coming from that allowance. 
Mrs B responded OK.
Im satisfied that AXA did tell Mrs B about her remaining allowance of £521.90 and that the 
consultation and tests would be subject to that allowance. Later in the call AXAs 
representative did say the consultation fee would be covered. So I think AXA acted fairly in 
saying it wasnt as clear as it could have been about that fee and acted fairly in agreeing to 
pay the £195 consultation fee. But AXA doesnt need to pay the remaining costs as it was 
clear those would be subject to the £521.90 allowance.
Mr R says AXA should have told Mrs B to check if the remaining allowance covered any 
further tests she needed.
The policy does say that if Mrs B needed further treatment she needed to call AXA first to 
confirm cover, so it was Mrs Bs responsibility. And anyway, AXA clearly told Mrs B the 
diagnostic tests were subject to the allowance. 
Also, during the call Mrs B asked AXAs representative if she had enough allowance left for 
the referral. AXA told her there was enough for the consultation, but it was difficult to say for 
the outpatient tests without knowing what type of tests were needed so AXA couldnt advise 
her about that. 
I think AXA was clear it couldnt know or assure Mrs B that the remaining allowance would 
cover the costs of any tests she would need.
Overall, Im satisfied that AXA fairly settled the claim.
AXA says Mrs Bs members on-line account has had her communication preference set to 
her receiving information on-line since October 2018, which is why her benefit statements 
were sent on-line instead of by post.
Its not clear if the preference was set by Mrs B or by AXA. Even if it was by AXA I dont think 
Mrs B has been disadvantaged by getting her benefit statements on-line as AXA told her 
about her remaining allowance amount when she called for authorisation so she had that 
important information.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Nicola SiskOmbudsman