DRN-1799996
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain, via their representative, about poor handling by their insurer, AXA 
Insurance UK Plc, of a claim for damage to their home following flooding.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ls ground floor and possessions were damaged by flooding in May 2018 after 
the latest of several floods they have suffered. They claimed to AXA and it appointed loss 
adjusters to manage the claim. Mr and Mrs L stayed in a caravan they own, and AXA waived 
their policy excess charge. 
Mr and Mrs L said they didnt realise how long it would take to get back to their home. They 
asked the loss adjuster for air conditioning to be installed in the caravan as it became too 
hot, or for alternative accommodation until repairs were made, but they declined saying the 
house was habitable. Mrs L said the dust in the house was exacerbating her medical 
condition and it wasnt habitable for her. And she said her mental wellbeing has suffered.
AXAs contractors carried out the repairs to Mr and Mrs Ls home and disposed of their 
damaged possessions. Mr and Mrs L complained to AXA about its handling of their claim, in 
particular delays and that it hadnt paid for all of their damaged possessions. 
AXA apologised for the problems that affected Mr and Mrs Ls claim and paid them £200 
compensation. AXA said Mr and Mrs Ls contents claim has now been paid other than for a 
caravan awning, which it said wasnt covered under the policy. It said even if the awning was 
inside the house at the time of the flood and not on the caravan there is no cover for caravan 
accessories. AXA said the Contents cover sets out the following exclusion on claims for:
Any Motor vehicle or craft, or caravan, or any accessories or contents in them or attached to 
them.
Mr and Mrs L werent satisfied with AXAs response. Their representative said AXA and its 
agents caused many problems with their claim concerning poor workmanship, delays, and 
poor communications. They said AXA was applying a narrow definition of contents cover and 
they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld concerning the caravan awning 
as he said this wasnt covered under the policy. But he said there had been delays affecting 
the amount of time Mr and Mrs L had to spend in their caravan and recommended £200 
additional compensation.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative said they welcomed the additional compensation but 
disagreed about the caravan awning. He said items within their house are the contents of 
that house and covered by the policy although the wording is vague. He said AXA could 
easily have provided for the exclusion it is now relying on, but it hadnt and rules of 
interpretation of a contract put the benefit of alternative interpretation with the consumer. The 
representative requested an ombudsman review Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that all the work associated with the claim has now been completed, and Mr 
and Mrs Ls claim for their possessions paid, other than for their caravan awning. And so, it 
is my role to decide if the compensation recommended by the investigator and agreed by 
both parties is fair, and to consider Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about the unpaid awning.
I have looked at AXAs records of the claim and Mr and Mrs L and their representatives 
comments. Its clear there have been avoidable delays and slow progress by AXA as well as 
some poor communications. I can well understand Mr and Mrs Ls frustration at the time 
taken to identify to agree rectification work and to make payments. I was sorry to learn about 
the effect of the prolonged time they had to stay in their caravan had upon their wellbeing.  
Im pleased that AXA has apologised to Mr and Mrs L for the poor service they received, and 
I think the compensation, of £400 in total, recommended by the investigator is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Both parties say that the policy is clear in that the contents cover does/does not include Mr 
and Mrs Ls loss of their caravan awning. Ive looked at the policy to determine which is the 
most reasonable interpretation. 
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives argument is that the policy term requires the accessory to be 
in or attached to the caravan at the time. He says that as the awning was not on the caravan 
at the time, the exclusion clause should not apply. In the alternative the representative said 
the term is vague and should be interpreted in favour of Mr and Mrs L.
AXA says that the absence of a time reference doesnt mean an accessory is covered if not 
attached, otherwise the exclusion would be pointless. AXA says a caravan cant be stored in 
a home, and a policyholder wouldnt claim for items if in or on a caravan elsewhere, so the 
only purpose for the exclusion is that caravan accessories wouldnt be covered. AXA says 
an awnings sole purpose is for use with a caravan and as an accessory it is not covered.
The policy defines Contents for the contents insurance part of the policy, as Household 
goods. I think its clear that a caravan awning falls outside of this definition and so cant be 
considered as household contents. The contents exclusion clause confirms that cover 
doesnt extend to caravan accessories. 
From my interpretation, I believe that the term means that any accessory of the caravan isnt 
covered under the contents policy wherever its situated at the time of loss. I think the terms 
are sufficiently clear that theres no cause to use the rule of interpretation of a contract 
putting the benefit of alternative interpretation to Mr and Mrs L. Consequently, I think that it is 
fair for AXA to rely on this term to decline Mr and Mrs Ls claim under the terms of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs L compensation of £400 for the distress 
and inconvenience they have suffered during their claim. AXA has already paid £200 and so 
it should pay a further £200 compensation to Mr and Mrs L if they accept this decision.
I do not require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs Ls claim for their damaged 
caravan awning.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman