DRN-3613570
The complaint
Mr B complains that Loans 2 Go provided him with a loan he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In June 2021 Loans 2 Go approved a £250 loan for Mr B. Mr B was to repay £1,028.52 over 
18 months with monthly repayments of £57.14.
Mr B says the loan was unaffordable.
Loans 2 Go disagree. They say that they completed reasonable and proportionate checks 
before approving the loan. They checked Mr Bs pay slips, asked him about his expenditure 
and used statistical modelling to clarify that. They also reviewed Mr Bs credit file to see his 
performance with other creditors and his other credit commitments. Having done that, they 
didnt think the loan was unaffordable.
Our adjudicator agreed with Loans 2 Go but Mr B didnt. He thought Loans 2 Go should have 
reviewed his bank statements before providing the loan and if they had they would have 
realised he couldnt afford it. 
The complaint has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
I think Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the 
finance. They checked Mr Bs income and clarified his likely expenditure. That showed them 
that he had a disposable income of about £411 before his other credit commitments were 
taken into account. The credit file they reviewed showed several running credit accounts with 
cumulative limits of about £3,200. 
Loans 2 Go needed to consider what sustainable repayments might be on that revolving 
debt and they were likely to be significantly more than the minimum repayment. They also 
needed to be satisfied that Mr B could repay the full credit limit available to him, without 
difficulty, within a reasonable period of time. I think, in this case, a reasonable monthly 
repayment would be about £160, and a similar amount would be needed to repay the full 
credit limit available over a reasonable period. 
I think the disposable income calculation Loans 2 Go had completed would suggest Mr B 
could afford those reasonable repayments sustainably, along with his other expenditure and 
this new, relatively modest, loan commitment. 
Ive thought about whether there was anything on the credit file that should have given 
Loans 2 Go cause for concern. There was evidence that Mr B had entered into an 
arrangement to pay with a current account provider and that hed missed some payments 
within the last six months with other creditors. But he was generally manging those credit 
commitments quite well and had been working within the credit limits provided. As the 
repayments on this new loan were modest and the income and expenditure calculation 
suggested they were comfortably affordable I dont think it would have been proportionate for 
Loans 2 Go to have carried out further checks, perhaps by asking for bank statements.
Overall, I dont think Loans 2 Go were irresponsible when approving the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman