DRN-3032280
The complaint
Ms T has complained Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as Yorkshire Bank, accepted a signature 
which wasnt hers as authority for an overdraft facility on a joint account.
What happened
Ms T, and her husband Mr T, operated a business. In 2003 they opened an account with 
Yorkshire Bank. Mr T died in June 2007.
In 2019 Ms T found some old correspondence which showed an overdraft facility for 
£150,000 being granted by Yorkshire Bank in January 2005. She didnt believe the signature 
on the facility agreement was hers and complained to Yorkshire Bank.
Yorkshire Bank believed that the mandate for this account meant that only one signature 
was needed to apply for and agree an overdraft facility. Dissatisfied with this response, and 
aware that this overdraft had led to Ms T and her husband overcommitting themselves 
financially, she brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. This included a copy of the original mandate signed 
in 2003 as well as the signed overdraft facility letter from Yorkshire Bank dated 21 January 
2005. Although its not our role to judge whether a signature was genuine, our investigator 
felt there was nothing there that suggested Yorkshire Bank had done anything wrong.
Ms T remained unhappy with this outcome. She asked an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 4 August 2021. I reached the same outcome as our 
investigator. I believed it didnt matter whether the signature had been faked as the mandate 
for the account meant Yorkshire Bank could accept Mr Ts sole instruction.
Ms T disagreed. She believed bank protocol required both partners to be present when a 
large overdraft was requested. Ms T said shed provide a fuller letter detailing her objections 
towards the end of August. Nothing has been received.
Yorkshire Bank didnt respond.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why.
Theres no question the original account mandate signed by Ms T and Mr T and dated 
11 September 2003 states that Yorkshire Bank should honour the instructions and 
signature(s) of any one of us for all purposes whatsoever. Im therefore satisfied that this 
mandate allows Yorkshire Bank to accept either the signature of Mr T or Ms T alone for any 
overdraft facility.
Im aware Ms T has raised the issue of bank protocol requiring both partners signatures. But 
Ive seen nothing to suggest this is the case when the mandate specifies something 
different. But in any case  based on what I explain further below  Im not sure this issue 
would change my decision based on what happened.
When the £150,000 overdraft facility was taken out on 21 January 2005 I believe Yorkshire 
Bank had authority to grant this based on either of the account signatories. So I cant see 
that either Yorkshire Bank (or Mr T) had any reason to forge Ms Ts signature.
I accept Ms T says this signatures not hers but I think that it bears a similarity to her 
signature on the account-opening mandate. We dont have the expertise to decide whether a 
signature is genuine but I am able to make a reasonable comparison. I dont think theres 
anything which suggests Yorkshire Bank should have been alerted to something untoward 
occurring as Im not convinced the evidence is clear the signature was forged.
Id also mention Ive looked at the statements for two of the accounts Ms T and her husband 
held with Yorkshire Bank. The one ending in 1121 was a current account whilst the one 
ending in 7262 was the account that had the £150,000 overdraft facility. After Mr Ts death, 
Ms T took over sole control of this account prior to its closing in January 2009.  
From reviewing the statements, I can see there was an existing overdraft of £25,000 prior to 
it being extended. This is stated at the top of the regular statements. This limit was exceeded 
prior to the extension being granted. The new overdraft facility is also clear from looking at 
subsequent statements. The statements show a number of high-value transactions between 
both accounts in the following couple of months. In fact £102,953.03 was transferred out of 
the account ending 7262 on the date the overdraft was granted. This wouldnt have been 
possible without the overdraft extension.
I think from looking at this, its more than likely Ms T would have known about the overdraft 
right from the off. Shes certainly not suggested otherwise; rather her complaint has been 
about her signature invalidating the application. However we determine cases on a fair and 
reasonable basis and in this case I believe Ms T always knew about the overdraft and the 
subsequent financial transactions this enabled on this account.. 
Im aware of the difficult financial position Ms T has been in and the privations this has 
caused her. But having considered the circumstances of this case, I dont think it would be 
fair to ask Yorkshire Bank to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Ts complaint against 
Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as Yorkshire Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman