DRN-4003317
The complaint
R has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to close a business account when he 
requested it, which led to indebtedness and affected his credit score. He has also 
complained that blocks were put on his account at certain times.
R has been represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr D, so for ease, Ill mostly just 
be referring to Mr D in this decision.
What happened
Mr D made a previous complaint about only opening the business account with Barclays 
because it promised that certain financial products would be available to R but which were 
not forthcoming in the end. That complaint has been fully dealt with by this service, having 
received a final response from an ombudsman in April 2022. Mr D didnt accept the decision 
and so is free to pursue Barclays via the courts if he so wishes. However, as that complaint 
has already been addressed by this service, I will not be looking at it again as part of this 
decision. It would also not be appropriate for me to look at Mr Ds dissatisfaction with how 
this service dealt with the previous complaint.
Our investigator thought that Barclays had acted reasonably in relation to the issues set out 
in the complaint section above. Mr D disagrees with the investigators opinion and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D responded to the investigators assessment to explain his dissatisfaction. But his 
comments mostly relate to the issues of his previous complaint. It is clear that his focus is 
still very much on the promises he believes Barclays made him upon opening the business 
account. However, as already stated, Im unable to look at that complaint again. 
The business current account went into an unauthorised overdraft on 4 February 2022. 
Therefore, Barclays wouldnt be in a position to close it until the arrears had been paid off. 
Interest and charges continued to accrue whilst the account remained open, which is in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. Although Mr D says he asked to close the 
account at a time when it wasnt overdrawn, I havent seen any evidence of a formal request 
being made to close the account.
Mr D says he was never told that the current account would attract fees and charges. But 
Ive seen a copy of a letter that Barclays sent Mr D in May 2019 that notifies him that the free 
banking period he had following the opening of the account was coming to an end in August 
2019. From that point charges would be made for transactions on the account. On balance, 
Im satisfied that Mr D would have known that charges would be incurred on the current 
account. Mr D was sent further letters in October 2019 and June 2021 informing him of 
further changes to the business account tariffs.
As I understand it, Mr D wanted Barclays to default the current account and a loan account 
after three months. However, Barclays was trying to work with Mr D to see if could agree 
some sort of plan to manage his debt and come to an arrangement to pay. But I cant see 
that Mr D engaged with Barclays in relation to this. Overall, Im unable to conclude that 
Barclays acted unreasonably in not defaulting the accounts after three months.
The arrears on the account will have affected Mr Ds credit score. But the information on the 
credit file is merely an accurate reflection of how the account has been managed. As there 
are arrears on the account, Im unable to conclude that Barclays has done anything wrong in 
reporting that information to the credit reference agencies. 
It is the case that blocks were put on the account at times. But this was in response to 
information received from Companies House that R had applied to be struck off. I can see 
that Barclays wrote to Mr D in September 2021 and June 2022 asking him to get in touch 
and that if it didnt hear from him it may freeze Rs accounts. On both occasions there was 
no response from Mr D and so Barclays wrote to him again to explain that the accounts had 
indeed been frozen. Barclays then unblocked the accounts upon receiving notification that 
the notice of intended dissolution of R had been withdrawn. Overall, based on the available 
evidence, I consider that Barclays acted reasonably in blocking the accounts when it did.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman