DRN-3955087
The complaint
Mr F complains that MBNA Limited unfairly rejected a claim he made under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) regarding the purchase of a timeshare product.
Two of the three credit card accounts used to pay for the timeshare were held with MBNA 
and both of those were in Mr Fs sole name. Thats why the complaint is only in his name. 
But as the payments relate to a contract entered into by both Mr F and his wife, Ill refer to 
Mr and Mrs F throughout much of this decision.
Mr and Mrs F have been represented, in succession, by two companies, which Ill 
collectively refer to as Mr and Mrs Fs representatives.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F bought a timeshare from a company (the Company) in August 2011. It 
entitled them to occupy a particular holiday property for one specified week per year until the 
year 2069. They paid a total of £9,950 for the timeshare and spilt the payment between three 
credit cards. 
Mr and Mrs F decided to sell their timeshare, but this proved to be more difficult than theyd 
expected. In 2014 they wrote to the Company commenting that their timeshare had been on 
sale for a year, but thered been no interest from any prospective purchasers, nor when 
theyd offered it for rental. They complained that the service charge had increased at a 
ridiculous rate. They said that when they bought the timeshare they were told that the 
service charge would be about £500, and that it wouldnt go up much each year. But the 
charge in 2014 had been more than £800. They said they felt they werent getting value for 
money and had decided that maybe they should walk away from the timeshare.
The Company responded that it didnt offer the option of taking back Mr and Mrs Fs week at 
the property, so theyd remain liable for management fees until it was sold. 
In 2016 Mr F made a claim to MBNA under s.75 CCA. Mr and Mrs Fs representatives said 
that when they bought the timeshare, the Company had made the following representations, 
all of which turned out to be untrue:
Certain conditions needed to be fulfilled in order to complete the legal purchase 
conditions  for example Mr and Mrs F were told that the opportunity to buy was only 
available on that day, and the offer couldnt be repeated after that.
The purchase was an investment and would increase in value;
The product was in high demand; and
If they wished to be released from their timeshare membership, the Company would 
sell it and Mr and Mrs F would receive the money paid with a profit.
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives say that holidays turned out not to be available, and when 
Mr and Mrs F tried to book holidays, they were told that theyd have to make further 
payments. And they say that the Company hasnt resold Mr and Mrs Fs membership and 
has told them that it wont be able to do so.
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives also said that:
Mr and Mrs F cant view the website that the Company previously provided which 
included details of the issues theyre complaining about;
Mr and Mrs F werent told that liability for the timeshare would continue after their 
deaths and would be passed to their children;
The Company didnt tell Mr and Mrs F about its complaints procedure, or tell them 
how they could get a refund if they werent satisfied with their purchase;
After buying the timeshare, Mr and Mrs F discovered that they could buy an 
equivalent holiday for the same price or less. This meant that the timeshare was of 
no value to them.
MBNA didnt accept Mr Fs claim under s.75 CCA. It said, in summary, that the agreement 
was for the purchase of a specific unit for one week per year, and Mr and Mrs F had made 
use of that. And it said there was no evidence to support their claims that thered been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the Company.
One of our investigators considered Mr Fs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said he could understand why Mr and Mrs F might be unhappy with their purchase, but he 
didnt think the evidence provided meant that MBNA should have upheld Mr Fs claim under 
the CCA.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think MBNA has acted unfairly in declining Mr Fs claim. Ill explain 
why.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I have to reach my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened 
in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Where a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against a supplier 
(the Company, in this case) they can, in certain circumstances, make a like claim against 
their lender under s.75 of the CCA. The claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim 
the consumer could make against the supplier.
Misrepresentation
Ill consider first the points that Mr F has raised which amount to assertions that the 
Company made misrepresentations.
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact or law made by one party to 
a contract which is untrue, and which induces the other party into entering that contract.Mr and Mrs F say the Company told them the timeshare was an investment, and would 
increase in value. But Ive seen nothing in the paperwork provided to support this. Theres no 
mention that I can see of an investment value of the timeshare. The contract gives Mr and 
Mrs F the right to occupy a given property for a specified week each year. 
Its clear from the contract that the timeshare can, in principle, be resold. And it states that 
the Company operates a resale scheme under which it acts as the timeshare owners agent 
in the resale of their rights under the timeshare contract. A commission of 25% of the resale 
price plus VAT would be payable to the Company. Ive seen nothing in the paperwork to 
make me think that Mr and Mrs F were told that there was any guarantee that the Company 
would be able to re-sell their timeshare, that it would increase in value or that theyd make a 
profit on it. 
I acknowledge that after the investigator sent out his view, Mr and Mrs F provided a copy of 
the minutes of the 2015 AGM of the members of their timeshare club, which they say shows 
that other owners raised the same concerns that they have, and refers to the timeshare 
being an investment. I can see that one other timeshare owner commented that they were 
sold their timeshares on the understanding that they were such a good asset that they could 
be returned at any time, as they could be sold easily.
Its possible that the Companys representative made comments to Mr and Mrs F about the 
timeshares investment potential, or commented on the demand for the product or the 
likelihood that it could be sold on. But I havent seen strong enough evidence to enable me 
to conclude that the Companys representative said anything that could reasonably be 
considered to have been a statement of fact, or any sort of guarantee, rather than simply an 
opinion. 
I havent been provided with any evidence to support Mr and Mrs Fs assertion that they 
were told that the opportunity to buy the timeshare was open for one day only. I accept that it 
may well be that Mr and Mrs F were told something along those lines to incentivise them to 
sign up on the day. But I have no way of knowing whether it was, in fact, true.
The contract includes a prominent section on costs which includes the management charges 
for the years from 2009 to 2011. Between 2009 and 2011 they rose from £476.41 to more 
than £621.07. The yearly increases were also shown in percentage terms, with rises of 
8.95% in 2010 and 19.66% in 2011. Theres a clear warning that its not expected that the 
charges would decrease in the future, and it states clearly that the charges arent fixed. On 
the basis of the information provided, Im not convinced, on balance, that Mr and Mrs F were 
told that the management charge would be about £500 or that they were told that they 
wouldnt go up much.
Ive also borne in mind that there was a reasonably prominent section of the timeshare 
contract headed Information on termination of the contract. It stated that Mr and Mrs F 
could withdraw from the contract at any point during the Withdrawal Period. The Withdrawal 
Period was defined on the first page of the contract as at least 14 days from the date on 
which Mr and Mrs F and the Company had signed the contract or, if later, the date on which 
Mr and Mrs F had been given a signed copy of the contract. The contract was reasonably 
clearly set out, and Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs F would have had time to query anything 
that conflicted with what theyd been told. Ive seen nothing to suggest that they did so.
Breach of contract
Mr and Mrs Fs representatives mentioned when they complained to MBNA that the property 
wasnt available when Mr and Mrs F tried to book. But theyve provided no evidence to 
support this apparent assertion that the Company breached the contract. Nor have they provided any detail of the additional charges that they say Mr and Mrs F were told theyd 
have to pay to use the property.
The remaining points that Mr and Mrs Fs representatives have raised relate to alleged 
actions, omissions or statements on the Companys part which cant, in my view, be 
categorised either as misrepresentations or breaches of contract.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F have been disappointed by their timeshare product. But s.75 
CCA doesnt provide protection for all scenarios that might lead a customer to be dissatisfied 
with a product or service. On balance, I dont think Mr F has shown that there was any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract in this case. So I cant conclude that MBNA acted 
unfairly in declining his claim. 
Our investigator also referred to s.140A CCA in his view of Mr Fs complaint, and considered 
whether the relationship between Mr F and MBNA was unfair in the light of the allegations 
made. But while s.140A might be a relevant consideration, I cant see that Mr F has ever 
asked MBNA to consider this point, or that MBNA has had a chance to investigate it. So if 
Mr F wishes to complain that there was an unfair relationship between him and MBNA, it 
would need to be dealt with as a separate complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman