DRN-3588369
The complaint
Mr A complains Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse the money he lost when he was tricked 
into paying for an item he did not receive.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Mr A was the victim of a scam when he attempted 
to purchase a second-hand Apple Pencil from a private seller on an online marketplace. 
Having seen the advert, Mr A had contacted the seller to obtain more information about it. 
The seller provided information including an address, and a video showing the item 
supposedly for sale. Mr A says he also checked the sellers social media profile, which 
appeared legitimate to him.
Mr A says he sent the seller an initial payment of £40 to secure the item and later sent a 
second payment of £30.30 when the seller said the item had been posted. Both payments 
were sent by Faster Payments transfer from his Monzo account.
However, later that day the item hadnt arrived. Mr A asked the seller for a tracking number 
but got no response. He received no further contact from the seller despite chasing. The 
following morning, he reported what had happened to Monzo as a scam.
Monzo didnt refund Mr A. It didnt dispute that Mr A had been the victim of a scam but said 
that Mr A hadnt exercised sufficient caution when hed made these payments.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles 
set out in it. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo said one or more of those 
circumstances (or exceptions) applies in this case. It said Mr A made the payments without 
having a reasonable basis for believing he was paying a legitimate seller for a genuine item. 
In particular, it didnt think the evidence Mr A had relied on was sufficient to have proved this.
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint and thought it ought to be upheld.
The investigator didnt believe Monzo had fairly assessed Mr As claim under the CRM 
Code. He didnt agree that Monzo had been able to establish that Mr A made the payments 
without a reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate purchase from a 
legitimate seller. He thought that, taking into account all the circumstances around the 
purchase, Mr A had taken sufficient care.
Monzo maintained its position. So, I have been asked to make a final decision on the 
outcome of Mr As complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Mr A 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances, Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money that 
Mr A lost.
The money was sent from Mr As current account. It is not clear how Mr A would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done. But if 
Monzo had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, Mr A would 
not have been deprived of it for the time he has. So, Monzo should also pay interest 
on the balance not yet refunded at a rate of 8% simple per year. This interest should 
apply from the date Monzo first declined to refund Mr A, to the date of settlement.
Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Mr A made these payments without a 
reasonable basis for believing that he was paying a legitimate seller for a legitimate item. I 
consider the steps he took were proportionate in the circumstances. I will go on to explain 
why I have reached this finding.
Ive taken into account the evidence provided by both sides. Under the terms of the CRM 
Code, the victim of an APP scam such as this should reimbursed unless the bank is able to 
establish that one (or more) of the exceptions to reimbursement can be applied.
Monzo argues that Mr A relied on evidence which didnt prove the seller was genuine. 
I agree with Monzo on the points it raised in response to the investigators view, including: 
that a social media profile can be faked; that the photo and video of the item didnt prove the 
seller intended to send them; that paying in two stages didnt provide any greater safety.
But, while none of this evidence could have provided conclusive proof that the seller was 
legitimate, that is not the test required under the CRM Code. Mr A merely required a 
reasonable basis for believing this was legitimate, in all the circumstances.
And while none of the steps he took gave conclusive proof, Im satisfied the evidence 
indicates that Mr A had taken a number of steps to validate the seller and the item. This 
included seeing the item, the sellers social media profile, and address. While it is now clear 
that these were false, Im not persuaded that this should have been readily apparent to Mr A 
at the time. On the contrary the details he was provided with seemed consistent with what he 
believed at the time and served to reinforce that belief.
Monzo has previously pointed to the fact that the provider of the recipient account did not 
participate in the Confirmation of Payee scheme, this should have caused Mr A concern that 
the payee details might have been invalid. However, this was an absence of confirmation, 
not a negative result. This would have looked no different had it turned out that Mr A was 
paying a legitimate seller holding an account at that destination.
Ive also thought about the points raised by Monzo concerning the number of friends shown 
on the social media profile. The seller apparently had 42 which Monzo considers indicates 
the profile was not genuine, on the basis that this is too low a number. I am not persuaded that this follows. I dont think this did (or reasonably should have caused doubt for Mr A).
Monzo also notes that the profile showed a different town to the address the seller gave to 
Mr A as his current address. I dont think Mr A noticed this at the time  but I dont think that 
even if he had this would have caused any concern. I say that given he believed he was 
paying a seller who appeared to be a relatively recent graduate and so might have been 
expected to have moved locations.
In all, I consider it reasonable that a purchaser should take steps proportionate to the 
purchase being made. Thinking about the circumstances of the transaction here, Im 
satisfied that Mr A did enough - given the purchase he was attempting to carry out. 
On balance Im satisfied that Mr A made the payment with a reasonable basis for believing 
this was a genuine seller and a genuine item. It follows that I am not satisfied Monzo has 
established that it can fairly rely on the relevant exception to reimbursement under the CRM 
Code. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr As 
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr A:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £70.30 less any 
sums already reimbursed or otherwise refunded; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date the bank 
originally declined Mr As claim until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman