DRN-3838562
The complaint
Mr B and Ms T complain about the way that Great Lakes Insurance SE handled a medical 
assistance claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
When I refer to Great Lakes, Im also referring to the medical assistance company which 
handled Mr B and Ms Ts assistance claim on its behalf.
What happened
The background to this complaint and the timeline of events are well-known to both parties, 
so Im not going to set out the background in detail here. Instead, Ive set out what I think are 
the key events.
Mr B and Ms T were abroad on holiday in a country Ill call C. On 21 September 2021, Mr B
unfortunately suffered an accident while undertaking an activity, and he required urgent
treatment. He was taken to a specialist private medical centre. Ms T contacted Great Lakes
to make a medical expenses claim on the policy.
Great Lakes told Ms T that it would require some evidence about the activity Mr B had been
carrying out. Ms T says that it also told her that Mr B would need to be taken to a public
hospital for treatment, as the costs of treatment would be covered by EHIC. But she says
that the public hospital wouldnt take Mr B due to Covid-19 concerns. So Mr B was
discharged, and Ms T monitored his condition.
Ms T provided Great Lakes with the evidence itd asked for on 22 September 2021. She let it
know that Mr B wouldnt be fit to fly on their planned return date and so Great Lakes asked
its travel agent to look into booking accommodation for the additional days Mr B and Ms T
would need to stay abroad. This was arranged.
Unfortunately, Mr Bs condition deteriorated, and he was taken back to the private specialist
hospital. Great Lakes told Ms T that Mr B should undergo treatment at the hospital, and it
would resolve any issues surrounding the price of the treatment directly with it. There was
ongoing disagreement between Great Lakes and the private hospital as to the hospitals 
charges, as Great Lakes had previously decided against using its services on the basis of its
costs. The hospital charged Mr B and Ms T the full costs of the treatment before they left the
premises. Ultimately, Great Lakes agreed to pay the hospital its total charges. The hospital
refunded Mr B and Ms Ts payment to them.
Mr B and Ms T stayed in the accommodation Great Lakes had provided. However, they later
complained that they werent happy with the quality of it. Great Lakes also had arranged
taxis transport for Mr B and Ms Ts journeys to the airport in C and from the airport in the UK
to their home. I understand there was some delay in those taxis arriving.
Following their return to the UK, unfortunately, Mr B required further treatment. And he
needed further time off work. Mr B and Ms T felt that Great Lakes initial failure to agree to
cover Mr B for private treatment had caused him to suffer complications. Mr B and Ms T had
also incurred some consequential losses, which they considered Great Lakes ought to pay.
So they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr B and Ms Ts complaint should be upheld. He thought itd
been fair for Great Lakes to review the costs of the treatment Mr B needed before confirming
cover. He said he hadnt seen any medical evidence to show that the initial delays had
caused Mr Bs condition to deteriorate upon his return to the UK. He noted that the policy
terms stated that costs such as lost wages wouldnt be covered. And he felt that Mr B and
Ms Ts issues with the hotel and taxi firms had been outside of Great Lakes control. He
didnt think Great Lakes needed to do anything more.
Mr B and Ms T disagreed.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 October 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought that overall, Great Lakes had treated Mr B and Ms T fairly. I said:
Its clear that this was a very distressing and worrying time for Mr B and Ms T. I appreciate
that Mr B suffered a serious illness and I do hope that he is now recovering well. I was sorry
to read of the circumstances which gave rise to this claim.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of Mr B and Ms Ts policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Great
Lakes handled this claim fairly.
Were there unreasonable delays in Great Lakes acceptance of this claim?
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr B and Ms
Ts contract with Great Lakes. Mr B suffered a medical emergency while he was abroad, so I
think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to assess the claim in line with the Emergency
Medical and Repatriation Expenses section of the policy. Towards the start of this section,
the policy says:
This is not private medical insurance.
Great Lakes has set out the specific things it covers under this section of the policy. One of
these includes:
Reasonable and necessary medical and hospital expenses, including the cost of
ambulance transport where medically necessary to take You to hospital. (My emphasis
added).
This section of the policy also sets out a list of things which are specifically excluded from
cover. This list includes:
Any costs which are covered under a reciprocal health agreement between the United
Kingdom and the country in which You are travelling such as costs covered by Medicare in
Australia or by private medical insurance.
The policy terms also include claims conditions. The following condition applies to the
medical expenses section of the policy:
If you are travelling in a European Union country, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway or
Switzerland and carrying the European Health Insurance Card, You should use the Card to
reduce Your medical claim. If You do so the Excess will not apply to Your medical claim.I think Great Lakes has made it clear that it will cover medical expenses which it considers to
be reasonable. In other words, that the costs are generally customary for the type of medical
treatment a policyholder needs. And its also made clear that if a reciprocal medical
agreement is in place between the UK and a policyholders destination country, then
policyholders must make use of that reciprocal agreement when seeking treatment. In my
experience of claims of this nature, both of these terms are common in travel insurance
policies.
In this case, there is a reciprocal health agreement in place between C and the UK in the
form of an EHIC (now GHIC) card. So I dont think there was anything inherently
unreasonable if Great Lakes requested that Mr B should undergo any necessary treatment
at the public hospital. I can see from Great Lakes assistance notes that one of its local
agents told Great Lakes that it had checked with the public hospital and it was open and able
to provide the treatment Mr B needed. It isnt clear though whether it wouldve been
prepared to carry out any necessary monitoring after he left the private hospital on 21
September 2021.
Id also add that the evidence Ive seen indicates that the private hospital informed Mr B and
Ms T that the public hospital wouldnt be prepared to admit Mr B for monitoring at this point.
So it isnt entirely clear to me whether or not Mr B tried to seek such monitoring and was
turned away by the public hospital. In any event, Ive looked at the medical report from the
private hospital following Mr Bs treatment on 21 September 2021. This says that Mr B had
undergone a physical and neurological examination by one of the hospital doctors and that
he should be monitored for a minimum of 12 hours to check whether further symptoms
appeared. Theres no indication here though that the doctor felt this needed to take place
within a hospital or what such monitoring would look like. And they concluded that Mr B
could be discharged for monitoring.
Additionally, I can see that before Great Lakes would accept full liability for the claim, it
needed to see evidence of Mr Bs activity to ensure that he hadnt acted outside of the policy
terms. This information was provided to it on 22 September 2021 and the claim was
approved very promptly afterwards. On this basis then, it seems to me that Great Lakes
couldnt have agreed to fully cover Mr Bs claim or any costs which would exceed £3000 until
it had received all of the evidence it needed to check that the claim was covered. And I dont
think this was an unreasonable position for it to take.
It's very unfortunate that Mr Bs condition worsened and that he needed further emergency 
treatment on 22 September 2021. However, having carefully considered the claims notes, I
can see that Great Lakes told Ms T that Mr B should undergo the treatment he needed and
that it would resolve the issue of costs with the hospital directly. I think this was an
appropriate response from Great Lakes and I think it was trying to ensure that Mr B could
undergo necessary treatment, without Ms T and Mr B needing to become involved in
protracted cost negotiations. I also think it reassured Mr B and Ms T that it would deal with
the costs issue. While I appreciate the private hospital did charge Mr B and Ms T directly for
the treatment costs, I can see that Great Lakes told it that it shouldnt do so. And I cant fairly
hold Great Lakes responsible for the hospitals actions or any potential negative effect this
may have had on Mr B and Ms Ts finances for the rest of the time they were abroad.
And I also think Great Lakes took a pragmatic and reasonably prompt decision to cover the
full private costs of Mr Bs treatment, despite its view that the hospitals costs were much
inflated. This allowed the hospital to refund Mr B and Ms T the amount theyd paid (less the
applicable excess) a few days later, rather than prolonging the matter.
I appreciate how strongly Mr B and Ms T feel that the lack of hospital monitoring of Mr Bs
condition following his discharge from hospital caused him to suffer complications which had
to be treated upon his return to the UK. Ive also noted that theyve since provided a letterfrom the private hospital in C, which says:
Delays in seeking treatment elevate the risk of residual symptoms. Over time, the initially
reversible damage may become permanent. After a delay of 24 hours or more, treatment
may be less effective and symptoms may not respond.
But despite our investigators request, Mr B and Ms T havent provided any evidence from
the treating medical team in the UK which shows that Mr Bs condition worsened upon their
return to the UK as a result of any failure of Great Lakes to pay for Mr Bs condition to be
monitored privately. Nor is there any evidence from the UK treating team that any delay in
Mr B receiving treatment worsened his condition. And in my view, the private hospitals letter
is general in nature and explains the progression of Mr Bs condition while he was in C,
rather than indicating that he hadnt been successfully treated on 22 September 2021
because of any failure on Great Lakes part. Indeed, the private hospital both discharged Mr
B from its care and deemed him fit to fly, which doesnt indicate that it had concerns that he
might need further treatment or that his symptoms hadnt responded.
Overall, I dont currently find that the evidence shows, on balance, that Great Lakes
unnecessarily delayed Mr B from undergoing treatment or that any action or inaction on its
part led to a deterioration in his condition.
Did Great Lakes provide poor additional assistance?
Mr B and Ms T have complained that the accommodation Great Lakes booked and paid for
was dirty and that the taxis it booked were delayed. Great Lakes asked its travel agent to
arrange both of these bookings. I can see that on 23 September 2021, Ms T told Great
Lakes that she wasnt happy with the accommodation. And this doesnt appear to have been
dealt with. But during that day, Ms T and Great Lakes were in regular contact regarding a
number of issues, including the taxi bookings, arranging a day hotel ahead of the return flight
to the UK and Great Lakes potentially paying Ms T a small cash advance from the claim to
cover food costs. I cant see that Ms T raised this issue with Great Lakes again until after
she and Mr B had returned to the UK, or that it had been raised with the accommodation
provider either. So it seems to me that Ms T and Mr B had decided to remain in the
accommodation without pursuing this complaint point until after Great Lakes was no longer
in a position to look into this issue.
I appreciate that the taxis which had been booked both to take Mr B and Ms T to the airport
and to return them to their home were delayed. And I understand how frustrating this
mustve been. However, I can see that Great Lakes did request that these bookings were
made and that it received confirmation of them. When it learned about the delays, it said it
would pass on feedback to the provider. It isnt responsible for the taxi companies failure to
arrive on time and I cant fairly award any compensation when Im satisfied that Great Lakes
did take all reasonable steps to ensure Mr B and Ms T had appropriate transport to and from
the airport.
Should Great Lakes pay Mr B and Ms Ts consequential losses?
Mr B and Ms T have claimed for consequential losses, such as their loss of earnings, which
followed their return to the UK. Page 99 of the policy includes a list of general exclusions
which apply to the whole policy. One of these is:
We will not pay for any losses that are not directly associated with the Insurance Event
causing the claim, for example loss of earnings if You are unable to work or the cost of
replacing locks if You lose keys.In this case, the direct claim costs Mr B and Ms T both incurred were for the costs of Mr Bs
treatment; the additional accommodation and taxi costs, which have been covered. Great
Lakes told Mr B and Ms T that theyd need to make a consequential loss claim for any other
costs they incurred if they wished to do so, for example, for the costs of calls to Great Lakes
etc. It would be for Great Lakes to assess these costs, and any evidence it required, in line
with the terms and conditions of the policy and to make an offer if it considers this is
appropriate. Ms T and Mr B may wish to submit such costs to Great Lakes for its
consideration, in line with the policy terms and conditions, including the exclusion Ive set out
above.
Summary
Overall, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mr B and Ms Ts position and the situation in
which they found themselves. But in the round, I currently find that Great Lakes has handled
their claim fairly and reasonably. And so I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon
which I could direct it to pay any compensation or do anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or information they wanted me to 
consider.
Great Lakes provided evidence to show that it didnt deal with the private facility Mr B was 
admitted to.
Ms T confirmed that she and Mr T were unhappy with my provisional findings. She said Mr T 
could have died, given the time it took to authorise his treatment. And she didnt think his 
condition was understood either by Great Lakes or by me. She felt they were getting 
nowhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think that Great Lakes handled this claim fairly and Ill explain why.
As I set out in my provisional decision, its clear that Mr B and Ms T found themselves in a 
very upsetting situation. Its clear that Mr B was seriously unwell, and I appreciate what a 
worrying and upsetting time this must have been for them both. 
But it remains the case that Great Lakes is reasonably entitled to request evidence to 
demonstrate that a claim is covered by the contract terms before it agrees to accept it. It isnt 
at all unusual for travel insurers to ask for more evidence before they agree to accept and 
accordingly pay medical expenses claims. And as I set out above, in my view, once Great 
Lakes received the evidence it needed, it very promptly agreed to cover Mr Bs claim. 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest that Great Lakes didnt understand the nature 
or seriousness of Mr Bs condition. And its clear that despite the fact it didnt use the private 
hospital due to concerns about its charging, Great Lakes paid the full costs of Mr Bs 
treatment within it. I remain persuaded that this was a fair and pragmatic solution from Great 
Lakes to try and help Mr B and Ms T during a difficult time.
Overall, as Ive explained, I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably. And Ive 
seen no additional medical evidence which indicates that Great Lakes handling of this claim 
was responsible for Mr Bs worsening condition upon his return to the UK. So despite my 
natural sympathy with Mr B and Ms Ts position, Ive decided that Great Lakes doesnt need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman