DRN-2612395
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) removed the transaction limit 
restrictions in place for his assistant - who was otherwise authorised to transact on some of 
his accounts. After the restrictions were removed, Mr Ws assistant fell victim to a scam 
which resulted in Mr W losing over £400,000. Mr W believes that had the restrictions not 
been removed, his loss couldve been prevented. 
What happened
In 2013, Mr W signed a mandate which allowed his assistant to carry out transactions of up 
to £15,000 on his UK bank accounts (the 2013 mandate).
In 2018, Mr W instructed his assistant to make a payment for just over €700,000 from one of 
his off-shore accounts held in the Isle of Man. The payment was flagged by Barclays and 
Mr W was contacted to confirm he had authorised the transaction as part of a dual 
authentication process that was set up by mandate signed in 2013. During this conversation, 
it was explained to Mr W that the 2013 mandate only applied to his onshore (UK) accounts. 
Mr W requested that his assistants authority be extended to his off-shore accounts too. Mr 
W was told it wouldnt be possible to do this over the telephone - he would need to complete 
and return some additional forms which would give his assistant authority to act on the other 
accounts as well. Over the next few days, Mr W completed and returned the necessary 
forms.
Then, in August 2019, Mr Ws email account was hacked, resulting in several emails being 
intercepted. Believing she was communicating with Mr W; Mr Ws assistant was asked to 
make two separate payments (totalling over £400,000) from his Isle of Man account to a 
bank account in Hong Kong - which she did. A few days after the second payment, Mr W 
discovered what had happened and reported the scam to Barclays. Mr W said he was 
concerned as to how the transfers had been processed without his authorisation - which was 
required to process payments authorised by his assistant amounting to over £15,000.
Barclays considered the scam claim but declined to refund Mr W. In their final response, 
they explained that a new mandate had been signed in 2018 (the 2018 mandate) which 
had authorised Mr Ws assistant to act on all of his accounts including his Isle of Man 
account. They also explained that this authorisation was now unconditional  meaning there 
were no longer any restrictions on the values his assistant could authorise  the second 
mandate had wholly superseded the first, including its restrictions.
Barclays also explained they were unable to consider the case under the recently introduced 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) as the scam payments were made to 
international bank accounts  which the CRM didnt cover. They also advised Mr W if he 
remained unhappy, he would have to take his complaint to Financial Services Ombudsman 
Scheme in the Isle of Man.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr W brought his complaint to our service. He told us the 
following:
At no point did he agree for the £15,000 transaction limit to be removed. And when 
signing the new mandate in 2018, he thought he was simply extending his assistants 
authority to his off-shore accounts, nothing more.
He was not made aware that the restriction had been removed  even after signing 
the updated mandate. And this wasnt set out in the form he completed either.
Another reason for believing the restriction remained in place was that he was 
contacted by Barclays in relation to a genuine international payment in December 
2018 for a sum of around £13,000. Whilst this was under the £15,000 restriction he 
thought was in place, this clearly suggested to him that Barclays were carrying out 
dual-authentication checks on his accounts. 
Had the restriction remained in place, the loss of over £400,000 wouldnt have 
happened - as part of the dual authentication security process, Barclays wouldve 
contacted him about the payment before it processed it and he wouldve been able to 
confirm that he hadnt sent the emails to his assistant and that he was not aware of 
the payments. 
Barclays fraud detection systems were inadequate as these payments shouldve 
been identified as unusual and blocked until he had been spoken to. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint and reached two main findings. Firstly, 
she felt any complaint points associated to the scam payments themselves  including the 
processing of the payments and Barclays obligations for identifying scam payments in 
general, fell outside of our services jurisdiction - the activity being complained about didnt 
take place from an establishment based within the UK. And so our service couldnt take this 
aspect of Mr Ws complaint further.
Secondly, our investigator concluded, on balance, that Mr W was made aware of what level 
of authorisation his assistant would be given when signing the updated 2018 mandate. She 
said there were no specific discussions about the transaction limit in the call recording where 
Mr W was told a new mandate would need to be signed to extend his assistants authority to 
the off-shore accounts. But she felt the mandate itself made it clear the varying levels of 
authority which would be provided to his assistant depending on the option selected. She 
noted Mr W had selected the option which placed the fewest restrictions on his assistants 
authority and this included no restrictions as to transaction limits. Our investigator also said 
that it seemed that Mr Ws assistant had made genuine payments over the original £15,000 
limit after the updated 2018 mandate had been completed. As a result, she felt Mr W ought 
to have realised the restriction was no longer in place. For the reasons above, our 
investigator felt Barclays hadnt acted unfairly in processing the transactions at the request 
of Mr Ws assistant.
Mr W accepted that certain parts of the complaint fell outside of our jurisdiction  and so I 
want to make it clear that I wont be commenting on those issues further here. However, he 
didnt agree with our investigator about the second part  the removal of the restrictions from 
the updated 2018 mandate. The reasons for this included:
Mr W believes our investigator has misinterpreted the call where its explained to him 
that he needed to update the mandate. Mr W has also listened to a recording of this 
call and he believes its clear he only intended to extend his assistants authority to his 
off-shore accounts  there was no mention of the transaction limit being removed - as 
this was not his intention. And it is in this context that he signed and returned the 
updated mandate forms. 
In signing the forms, Mr W believed that all he was doing was extending his 
assistants authority to make payments out of his offshore accounts  and not 
waiving the pre-existing transaction limits.
Mr W is of the opinion, that at the very least, Barclays shouldve called him to confirm his instructions given the fundamental change to the scope of his assistants 
authority.
Mr W acknowledges that there were payments made for more than £15,000 after the 
updated mandate was signed. However, some of these were internal transfers and 
the £15,000 limit never applied to internal transfers and so these would not have 
caused him any concern. As a result, our investigators point on this aspect of his 
complaint is invalid. 
Mr W acknowledges there were other payments made to external accounts  but Mr 
W has said all but one was to a pre-existing payee. In terms of the one payment that 
might not have been an existing payee, Mr W has no recollection of whether Barclays 
contacted him due to the time thats passed. Mr W also feels it wouldnt be fair to 
expect him to recall this, as he had simply presumed the transaction limit was in 
place and he wasnt checking for it. 
Some calls were made by Barclays after the removal of the limit, and this re-enforced 
Mr Ws assumption that the dual-authentication calls had not stopped. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why below.
I have listened to a copy of the call recording that prompted the updated mandate forms to 
be sent to Mr W in 2018. There is a very brief conversation with Mr W about his assistant 
only being authorised to instruct on his onshore accounts. Mr W immediately responds to 
this asking for her authority to be extended to his off-shore accounts too. Hes then told his 
assistants authority cannot be extended straight away as he would firstly need to speak to 
his private banker about this. The call then ends with Mr W requesting he be sent the 
necessary documents which would allow the extension of his assistants authority to the 
offshore accounts. There is no discussion about transaction limits being removed. And 
having listened to the call recording, its clear to me that Mr W and Barclays only discussed 
extending his assistants authority to the offshore accounts, nothing more. And I agree with 
Mr W that theres nothing to imply, at this stage at least, that things such as transaction limits 
were up for discussion. However, shortly after the call, I understand Mr W was sent the 
necessary forms by his private banker. The form Mr W is sent is an Interested Party form 
that sets out various levels of authority that can be granted to a third party by the account 
holder.  
Ive read the form in detail and whilst I accept that Mr W left the call only having requested to 
extend his assistants authority to his off-shore accounts, I dont agree that him completing 
and signing the forms later sent to him should only be read in the context of what was 
discussed in this call. And Im not persuaded that Mr W couldve thought thats all he was 
doing by signing this particular form either. Im satisfied it wouldve been clear that the form 
wasnt limited to extending his assistants authority to the off-shore accounts  it is an 
Interested Party Form requiring the account holder to actively choose the powers given to 
their authorised third party and it discusses in detail, over a number of pages,  the levels of 
authority that can be selected and what powers this will grant. And so I think it shouldve 
been clear to Mr W, who has signed to say he has read the form, that it wasnt limited to his original request. This isnt what the form sets out, and if he had been concerned about this, 
he couldve made further enquiries with Barclays as to the choices he was making. 
In addition to the above, Im also satisfied that form makes it clear that this new mandate 
would supersede the one completed in 2013 and that it required Mr W to actively set out the 
level of authority he intended to grant to his assistant  which includes authorising 
transactions of any value from his accounts. Ill explain why below:
On page one of the form itself, under the heading Section 1, the form sets out that Mr W 
needs to actively choose one of three options when deciding what level of authority the third 
party would have. The three options were:
Information only  this would give the Interested Party information about the 
account(s) only.
Dealing Authority  in addition to the above, Barclays would also be able to 
communicate with the Interested Party and on certain occasions, be able to give 
recommendations and accept instructions from them.
Full powers  in addition to the above, Barclays would be able to take further 
instructions from the Interested Party  this time including changes to the parameters 
of the account as well as amendments to the level of an agreed overdraft or other 
credit facility.
Alongside this, an additional heading called Implications of granting authority sets out what 
will happen once Mr W selects the relevant option. This includes the following paragraph:
You are responsible for anything the Interested Party does within the scope of their 
authority (including giving instructions to trade and taking investment decisions) and for 
regulating your relationship with the Interested Party We will rely on the authority you have 
granted the Interested Party and will not generally seek your consent to any instructions 
given by the Interested Party.
Mr W is then required to tick to indicate which level of authority he would like his assistant 
to have and which accounts the authority would apply to. The final sentence of this section 
then goes on to explain to Mr W that:
The list below must be completed and will supersede all previous authorities your Interested 
Party had over accounts with the same particular business areas within the same legal 
entity
Mr W has then proceeded to select the Full Powers option. As the name suggests, this 
option meant Mr W was granting his assistant the widest set of permissions out of the three 
options available. This meant she could now request access to information about all of Mr 
Ws accounts accounts, as well as meaning Barclays could now accept instructions from her 
without seeking further authorisation from Mr W. 
When signing, Mr W is also made aware again of the following:
You authorise us:
for those account(s) listed above as Dealing Authority or Full Powers to act on 
instructions given by the Interested Party that are within the scope of the authority given to 
them by you in this Section 1. Having highlighted these sections  some of which are clearly featured in the first few pages 
of the form, Im satisfied its clear the form wouldnt just cover granting Mr Ws assistant 
authority to his offshore accounts. Instead, Im satisfied that it should have been clear to Mr 
W that the form was designed to set up a new mandated authority and for the account holder 
to choose what powers the third party would get. And most importantly, anything signed on 
this form would supersede what had previously existed. 
Im also persuaded theres nothing in the form which wouldve helped maintain the 
impression Mr W had at the end of the call either  especially as something as simple as the 
name of the form and the detail within it wouldve reasonably made it clear to Mr W that 
there was more to it than that. 
Overall, Im satisfied the form made it sufficiently clear to Mr W that signing this updated 
mandate would mean Barclays werent obligated to check any future payments with him and 
that they could solely rely on the third partys instructions going forward - unless they felt it 
was necessary to do other checks with Mr W because of other concerns. And as this 
mandate was newer than the one created back in 2013 and was going to be applicable to 
both Mr Ws onshore and offshore accounts, Im also satisfied that Barclays were entitled to 
allow this updated mandate to supersede the original version.
I can appreciate Mr Ws point as to why the changes werent discussed in greater detail with 
him before signing the updated mandate  especially given the changes were very different 
to what was in place for the third party up to that point. However, this still wouldnt lead me to 
the conclusion that Barclays has acted unfairly on this occasion. Ultimately, Im satisfied that 
the form made things sufficiently clear  even if Mr W was under a different impression after 
the phone call, it was he who had actively selected to grant this level of authority and signed 
the form. Id also add that if Mr W was unsure about anything he was reading and signing, 
he also wouldve had the opportunity to go back to his private banker to ask questions. 
However, Mr W has completed, signed and returned the form to confirm he has understood 
what it has said. And so for the reasons set out above, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Barclays to rely on the instructions set out in the 2018 mandate when allowing Mr Ws 
assistant to transact on his account. 
In summary, Im very sorry to hear what happened to Mr W. But I dont think his loss has 
been caused by any specific failings on behalf of Barclays. I wont be upholding this 
complaint and I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman