DRN-3587150
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain they were mis-sold a timeshare interest and the loan used to pay for 
it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades as 
Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr and Mrs J are represented by a 
firm of solicitors, which Ill call P. 
What happened
P has explained that Mr and Mrs J bought a timeshare interest from Diamond Resorts 
International. The purchase was financed in whole or in part by a loan from BPF, arranged 
through Diamond Resorts. The loan was repaid in or about February 2014. I have assumed 
that it was a joint loan.
In October 2020 Mr and Mrs J contacted BPF through P. P raised a number of issues about 
the loan and the timeshare arrangements which had been financed by it. In summary, P 
said:
At the time the loan was arranged, Diamond Resorts did not have the necessary 
authorisation to act as a credit broker. The loan is therefore void.
Diamond Resorts made misrepresentations about the benefits of the timeshare. Under 
sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 BPF is equally liable to Mr and Mrs 
J for those misrepresentations. 
The loan agreement created an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act. 
BPF did not carry out appropriate affordability checks before agreeing to the loan.   
P said that sums paid under the loan agreement should be returned to Mr and Mrs J.
BPF did not accept Mr and Mrs Js claims, primarily on the grounds that the events 
complained of had taken place many years earlier. P referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator took a similar view to that taken by BPF. P asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Diamond Resorts International 
There is very limited paperwork available from the time of the sale and the loan, so it is not 
entirely clear which company arranged the loan. Diamond Resorts International is not a legal 
entity in its own right, so cannot have acted as a credit broker. It is however a trading name 
of Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited. 
At the time the loan was set up, consumer credit broking did not require FCA authorisation; it 
did however require a licence issued by the Office of Fair Trading. In addition, from 6 April 
2007, the Financial Ombudsman Service could consider certain complaints about OFT 
licensees, under our consumer credit jurisdiction. Our own records indicate that Diamond 
Resorts (Europe) Limited was covered under the consumer credit jurisdiction from 6 April 
2007 until 31 March 2014 and thereafter under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
I believe therefore it is more likely than not that Diamond Resorts International is a reference 
to Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited and that that company held the necessary consumer 
credit licence at the time the loan was arranged. 
I note that, in response to the investigators assessment, P sought to put this service to strict 
proof of this issue. That would of course be a departure from the usual position, where the 
parties to a dispute to seek to persuade the decision maker of their case; it is not usually for 
the decision maker to provide evidence to the satisfaction of the parties. 
 Section 56 and section 75
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
Whilst the paperwork here is limited, I have approached this case on the basis that the 
relationships of BPF and Diamond Resorts did meet the conditions of section 75. 
The effect of section 56 of the same act is that pre-contract statements made by a credit 
broker are to be treated as if they were made by the lender. I must therefore consider the 
claims that Diamond Resorts misrepresented the timeshare.
Misrepresentation 
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or fact made by one party to 
a contract which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. P has set out 
in fairly general terms the statements made to Mr and Mrs J and which led them to agree to 
buy the timeshare product. They were all made on or before 5 September 2007, the date of 
the loan. 
Under the Limitation Act 2010 an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation 
cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued. The cause of action here accrued no later than the date of the loan and timeshare 
purchase.  
No claim was made until October 2020, some thirteen years later. I think it very likely 
therefore that a court would conclude that any claim was made outside the time limit in the 
Limitation Act. 
In cases of negligence, the relevant time limit under section 14A is three years from the date 
of knowledge required to bring a claim, if that is later than six years from the date on which 
the cause of action accrued. It is not clear that any claim Mr and Mrs J might have would be 
a claim in negligence, which is inconsistent with the allegation that they were victims of 
fraud. The allegations they have made, however  for example, that they were unable to book holidays in the way they had been told they could  are not matters which would have 
become apparent recently.
In my view, therefore, it is very likely that a court would take the view that any claims for 
misrepresentation against Diamond Resorts would be out of time under the Limitation Act. In 
the circumstances, it was reasonable for BPF to decline to meet them. 
 Section 104A claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. 
P says that such a claim is based on a specialty and that the effect of section 8 of the 
Limitation Act is that the limitation period is twelve years from the end of the relationship 
between the parties. The relationship in this case ended when the loan was repaid in 
February 2014.  
The case of Nolan v Wright pre-dates sections 140A and 140B, but considered the position 
under earlier, but similar, provisions of the Consumer Credit Act relating to extortionate credit 
bargains. The judge accepted that a claim under those provisions was a claim on a specialty 
(that is, a claim on a statutory cause of action). That meant that section 8 of the Limitation 
Act applied. Section 8 says:
8 Time limit for actions on a specialty.
(1) An action upon a specialty shall not be brought after the expiration of twelve years 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
(2) Subsection (1) above shall not affect any action for which a shorter period of 
limitation is prescribed by any other provision of this Act.   
In considering the effect of subsection (2), the judge said:
As such, a 12 year limitation period applies unless the claim expressly extends to the 
repayment of money previously paid under the credit bargain, in which event the 
application will be governed by section 9 and subject to a 6 year limitation period 
accordingly.  
In my view, it is clear that Mr and Mrs Js purpose in bringing this complaint is to try to 
recover from BPF money paid under the loan agreement. It is not, for example, to have the 
terms of an ongoing loan agreement changed. 
P says that a different time limit applies where the claimant did not know they had a claim 
until later. I am not persuaded however that anything happened in the six years from 
February 2014 which would have caused Mr and Mrs J to think the loan created an unfair 
relationship.  
I think it is likely that a court would conclude that an action brought under section 140A 
would be out of time. Again, BPFs response was therefore fair and reasonable. 
The complaint about the credit assessment
P says that BPF did not carry out a proper credit assessment before agreeing to the loan. It cited current FCA rules. As I have explained, the FCA did not regulate consumer credit when 
the loan was made, although OFT guidance included similar provisions to the current rules. 
However, our own rules say that we cannot consider a complaint unless it is referred to us 
within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which 
the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in September 2007. P has not suggested that Mr and Mrs J had difficulty 
making repayments. Had that been the case, however, they would have known within six 
years. It follows that this part of the complaint should have been referred to this service by 
no later than 5 September 2013. Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.
Conclusions 
I believe that Diamond Resorts held the necessary consumer credit licence at the time the 
loan was made.
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs J have a claim for 
misrepresentation against Diamond Resorts. Nor is it for me to decide whether any such 
claim might be outside the relevant time limits in the Limitation Act. Rather, I must consider 
BPFs response to the complaints made by Mr and Mrs J. 
In my view, BPF acted reasonably in concluding that the section 56 and section 75 claims 
and the section 104A claims were likely to be out of time under the relevant provisions of the 
Limitation Act.   
In my view the complaint about the credit assessment was brought outside our own time 
limits and I have no power to consider it. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr and Mrs Js complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman