DRN-2093978
The complaint
Miss W complains she was mis-sold a life and critical illness policy by Sesame Limited. The 
policy was actually sold by one of Sesames appointed representatives, but for the sake of 
ease, Ive referred to Sesame through this decision.
What happened
In 2012, after speaking to Sesame by phone, Miss W took out a decreasing term assurance 
life and critical illness insurance policy with cover for total permanent disability (TPD). 
In 2019, Miss W contacted her insurer about her cover, as shed experienced a slipped and 
herniated disk in her back. And, after being sent a further copy of the policy documents, she 
complained to Sesame about an exclusion relating to the TPD cover, which says the 
following:
No claim shall be admitted in respect of any disease, disorder, injury, operation, or 
treatment of the spinal column and its associated ligaments, intervertebral discs, cartilage,  
nerves and supporting musculature.
Miss W said shed told their sales consultant she wanted a policy that covered problems with 
her back and was told the policy she bought would cover everything except for her sciatica. 
Miss W said she wasnt sent the Cover Summary at the time by the insurer, which detailed 
the exclusion. And, if shed realised it applied, she would have gone with another provider 
and bought a policy without such an exclusion.  
In response, Sesame accepted their sales consultant hadnt provided Miss W with 
information about TPD, but they were satisfied shed have been aware of the 
abovementioned exclusion from the documentation provided by the insurer. They offered to 
refund the extra premium shed paid for TPD cover with interest and pay her £200 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Miss W wasnt happy with Sesames response to her complaint and asked us to consider it. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She pointed out the evidence suggested 
Miss W did receive the full policy information pack from the insurer, but  even if she didnt  
this wasnt Sesames fault. And she pointed out that Miss W didnt actually tell the sales 
consultant back cover was important to her when giving her reasons for calling. She 
accepted the sales consultant failed to give Miss W clear, fair and not misleading information 
as he failed to mention the full extent of the abovementioned exclusion. However, she didnt 
think Sesame needed to do anything further as she wasnt persuaded Miss W would have 
been able to buy an alternative policy without a similar exclusion. And she was satisfied the 
compensation Sesame had offered was appropriate. 
Miss W doesnt agree. Shes explained she didnt feel the need to tell the sales consultant 
that having cover for her back was important to her, given she was told everything except 
her sciatica was covered. And shes added that her existing policy had a similar exclusion, 
which was the whole reason she was looking to change to a new one. Shes also explained 
that she only received the policy pack in the post originally and didnt get the A4 covering 
letter, which detailed the abovementioned exclusion. And shes said that the investigator 
couldnt know for certain that other protection policies she could have bought would have 
excluded back related problems.  
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having listened to the sales call, I dont think Sesames sales consultant recommended the 
policy to Miss W. This means he didnt assess the suitability of the cover for her 
circumstances and it was for her to decide  based on the information he provided - whether 
she wanted to buy it. But he (and Sesame) still needed to provide Miss W with clear, fair and 
not mis-leading information about the policy to allow her to make an informed decision on 
whether it was right for her. As part of doing this he needed to bring any significant 
exclusions to Miss Ws attention. And this would have included explaining to her the full 
extent of the back exclusion Ive set out above. And he didnt do this, instead he told her 
everything apart from her sciatica would be covered.
 
Miss W has said she didnt receive the A4 cover letter the insurer has said they sent her 
which detailed the exclusion. However, the cover letter didnt mention the exclusion. It 
referred to a policy pack, which included the documents listed in the letter. This list included 
a Cover Summary and it was in this document that the exclusion was detailed. And I have 
assumed that this is the document Miss W has now seen, which she is sure she didnt get 
with the policy pack from the insurer originally. However, I think its highly unlikely that such 
an important document wasnt included by the insurer originally. And if it had been missing 
when she received the pack, I would have thought Miss W would have queried this at the 
time. Although, I appreciate she could just have failed to pick up it was missing. But overall, I 
think it is more likely than not that it was included in the pack, bearing in mind how important 
the document was and the fact that the insurers covering letter specially referred to it. Also, 
even if it wasnt included, this wouldnt be Sesames fault, as it was the insurers 
responsibility to provide the policy documentation.  
But the fact I think Miss W received the full policy pack including the cover summary doesnt 
alter the fact the sales consultant failed to meet his obligation to draw the exclusion to Miss 
Ws attention when he spoke to her. The insurer has explained that he would have been 
aware of this when he received the quote details electronically. And I think he should have 
told Miss W the full extent of the exclusion instead of just saying she would be covered for 
everything except sciatica. And the sales consultant also failed to mention the TPD cover 
under the policy ended in 2021, although this was also detailed in the Cover Summary 
document. And if hed mentioned this and the exclusion, irrespective of what was in the 
policy pack, Miss W would have been aware of what she was being offered and been able to 
make a fully informed decision on whether it was right for her. Unfortunately, she wasnt able 
to do this. However, while I can understand her distress at finding out shes not covered for 
back problems, I dont think it would have actually made any difference to her decision to go 
ahead with the policy. 
The reason I dont think the sales consultant not mentioning the exclusion in particular 
wouldnt have made any difference to Miss Ws decision to go ahead with the policy is that, 
after making enquiries with other insurers who provided quotes, I dont think any of them 
would have provided Miss W with TPD cover without the same or a similar exclusion to the one the insurer included. Theyve all suggested they would have included a similar exclusion 
due to Miss Ws history of sciatica and her occupation. And  like our investigator  I think 
this shows its more likely than not Miss W couldnt have got the cover she wanted for her 
back even if shed shopped around and got other quotes. 
I appreciate Miss W could have just kept her existing policy, but I dont think shed have 
done this, as it was more expensive and the time it had left to run was shorter than the term 
of the new policy she took out. 
I also appreciate Miss W has said she found a cheaper policy elsewhere, but I can see this 
was to provide a monthly income for two years in the event of sickness or an accident, rather 
than paying off her mortgage if she fell ill. And Miss W already had an income protection 
policy. So Im not persuaded she would have taken that out instead of a life and critical 
illness policy. 
Sesame have offered Miss W a refund of the premium for the TPD element of her policy, 
which I presume would also include her agreeing to this cover ending. Theyve also offered 
compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience Miss W experienced as a result of 
finding out she didnt have the cover she thought she had. And I think this is reasonable 
based on the circumstances, as its appropriate for the level of distress Miss W experienced. 
And Miss W can choose to either take up Sesames offer regarding the premium or continue 
with the cover under the policy as it currently stands.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I am satisfied that Sesame Limiteds offer of £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable and it should pay this to 
Miss W if its not done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman